of It's Just Bodybuilding. My co is Dusty Han Shaw myself big round part low and today we have a tiny Instagram question that's usual. We're going to chat about life and it's just bodybuilding. I'm back. It's all your back. It's a bargain for you. So Josh, you work in next store. I have three things right off the bat. First of all, like share, subscribe, comment, ring the bell. Ready, go. I like that. That was good. Secondly, secondly, I have a correction that I saw it on the comments of the episode and it was like the second actually two corrections but it was the second. We were done the episode. I realized I fucked up but that's what these long form conversations are. And I got two names mixed up and I was like, I can't go back and fix that anymore. We were talking about album producers. Right. And for just a second, I got Bob Rock and my Lang mixed up and that really, really fucking irritated me and I thought, I don't want to notice and then one do notice and comment to that was like, I fuck someone noticed. So yeah, I got to correct myself. I was saying how Bob Rock made metallic is black album and my Lang. No, no, he did that. So I was right about that. But I was saying how he also made deaf leopard to Staria. That was my Lang. Which I was banging tonight, playing for a long time. Yeah, he's married to her. Yeah. Yeah. And then maybe he wasn't that a better married, but you know what I mean? Right. Right. And should I, I mean, even where's a back and back t-shirt and one of her videos? Say, because he did that album. Anyway, that's a whole necessary. So I know all about my Lang and ACDC. I got Bob and my, and the reason I got Bob and my mixed up for a second is because they're both kind of famous for bands going to them to get a hit record. Right. It's time. We need our stuff played on the radio. You know what I mean? They said that. All of them. Yeah. They sort of had that reputation where it's like, you're a good band, but you know, like, make metallic at right, Nate minute songs for 10 years. And then they go to Bob rocking the right some four minute songs and boom. You know, like, I have an idea. Little fucking long. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You're writing music for your 1% most hardcore fans. Right. Right. We know how this all works. And then thirdly, you would not believe how close I came to eating this dog treat. It's, it's this beautiful little it says three dogs bakery. I don't know. It's just found it laying around the house, you know, Emily must go. And it says three dogs bakery, the bakery for dogs. And then it's this really tasty looking like gingerbread cookie with what appears to be, of course, because I'm thinking chocolate, what appears to be chocolate on it. And it says Jedi for my dog. All of those clues still made me think, huh, this looks good. I didn't, I didn't quite realize it was four dogs. I almost think it was a cute little treat with my dog's name on it. It looks really tasty. I'm going to eat that and I almost almost almost unwrapped it and then my brain like realized that I was having a moment where it wasn't putting stuff together. Right. This is four dogs. So that was a close call. But that tells you how few treats I have around the house. Do you want to try it? Well, I'm still fit that so funny thing is even though now I figured now I kind of want to know because it does look like a tasty treat. And I mean, it wouldn't kill you if you try to write now and we all walk close. I like had my finger, I was going to peel it open. Like I was like I thought, oh, wait, this is like a dog bone. So it took a second. I like to think that I'm smart enough to get through life without eating dog food at any point. I mean, it's not a tide pod, but I got you. So it could be worse. Yeah, I'm just trying to show you there's levels to this shit. Are you saying that you've eaten something worse this week, Dusty? I'm not going to add so questions. That's cool. How about that football game? I won't let let's talk about the football game. What are your thoughts? Do you think it was game? Of course I watched the game. I'm American. So what we do. Right. I mean, I don't even think it's optional. I think they arrest you if you leave your house during the game. Right. Right. Right. Right. What unless you're just getting snacks? Um, yes. All right. So here's the truth. The moment that Brady can actually with Grong for the first touch I was like, we're going to win. Look at it sounds silly. It was only four points at that point. Well, three at that point. Yeah. But yeah, I'm like, there was just something about that. The symbolic like those two again, you know, bad boys coming together. Yeah. When they got, when they got the second one, I was like, yeah, this is just getting silly. Like when Grong scored again, I was like, I was like, we're doing this again. Okay. Yeah. And he has all those people to pick pick from like he's on a good team. Yeah. He gets all these like, they have thrown it to Grong. You know what he's doing? He's doing times at least a few times today. I'm going to make sure he gets get something. Yeah. One of my favorite parts was I forgot about that fucking commercial they made. Did you mobile one? Yeah. And then it got like recirculated. And I hadn't even seen that until the night before watching one of Scott's this, the video that Scott did with with Tommy by training partner. That was one of the commercials. So I just watched it. Yeah. That's fucking hysterical. Yeah, pretty funny. One more like it's so easy to do. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. If you're there, you're soft and weak. Twenty-one hours later, I'm like, oh, that's done. And like, and it's like Joe Donley posted that story or that video back up again like commercial. And he's like, now this is epic. Yeah. Like, so I forgot, I remember seeing it, but you know, of course a year ago where like, they're not going to go win one. Yeah. You know. And then it's funny. I saw Joe Joe reposted. So I put it on my, I sent it out on my story to just, I thought everyone need to rewatch that. So if you haven't seen that, go check it out. Brady had it up. Yeah. It was fun. I just, uh, yeah, man. And you know, like Brady didn't have the best game on the semi final. Like, no, you know what I mean. And you could, you know, I just, I loved watching him win man. That's crazy. And then the memes, some of the memes, just so hilarious, you know, and this never ending. Oh, yeah. No, I, I've been loving watching all of them just roll through and, you know, but I didn't, they didn't do the, they didn't do the walkout. I didn't get to see the bad boys video with this song. When, when my favorite memes was it showed my home showing up to the stadium and Brady showed up to stadium and the home had a mascot. And the mascot, you know how this is going to go. Yeah, because they all poor, poor, poor, poor, my home getting fucking shit on for, you know, Brady rolling up no mask is this funny. Funny is there was some down here, of course, some retarded leftists are just hammered away at Brady. And I'm like, do I need to be the one at the point out he's been COVID tested every day for like months? Yeah, it's like, like, they don't have to. Like, it's so stringent on them. I actually had somebody attack me on one of my YouTube videos because I got COVID from someone like, a guy just like you walk around, I'm like, you got COVID from a guy who didn't have COVID that wasn't wearing masks. That's fucking crazy. Yeah, because I also don't have COVID that you're going to get COVID from, but yeah, that's you. It's cool. It makes perfect sense for your pocket. And it's the thing that I hate is how like some of the like the guy talking on the microphone is like wearing a mask. And then you see like there's no one around him. Yeah, I don't always say, well, down here on side lines. It's just, it's just the the the theater part. But I feel I feel like then in that case, when they're filming inside, but it's cold outside. We should all have been on and fucking mittens. Yeah, remind me that it's cold outside. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I got to pretend. I know it's 76 in the room. We're in, but it's snowing out there. I'm just a window behind me. It appears cold. So I'm going to like, mix it on. They make sure you know that it's not safe to go out there without fucking jacket on. So that's kind of been the number one problem with with all of this stuff. I think that I think that most reasonable people can agree. Whether they agree on the all the other details. I think everyone can most people can agree that part of the problem has been, you know, how they changed their stance based on, you know, like, don't wear masks. No, master uses don't wear masks. Okay, we just said that because we didn't want to run out. So now we want you to wear them. They should like you'd think by now we would know that when you when you lie to the public, it creates trust issues later down the pipeline. Yeah. And I mean, we all know this from the boy who cried wolf. I mean, that's the children's fable that they tell us to program that into us. So we don't do that as adults. Yeah. But then they turn around and that's what they do. They turn around and do that. All we just told you that so that you and panic. And we just told you that. So you wouldn't buy up all that masks. So we just told you that because, you know, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, this is actually what's going on. That's that's been a huge problem with a lot of the stuff that's happened. And and I feel like the the the theater is a huge part of that. You know, the pretending the, okay, there's a guy on the sideline 15 feet from everybody and no one's actually allowed to go talk to him. He's actually standing in a circle and isolated from anyone getting close to him. But we're going to make him wear a mask because he's on TV. Right. So just that sort of stupid shit. But you know what it probably some of that comes down to. If he doesn't wear a mask, the phone start ringing. Right. And the email start pouring in and the complaints start and they just don't want to deal with the complaints, which is what a lot of this is about. Yeah, no, and that's the thing. I mean, I hate derailing on the subject because obviously my stance is pretty firm now. But like you said, it's the same. Listen, something we got to handle business. I don't know. I know. You know, look at that powerful yell. You could tell that's very, very commanding. I gotta ask him if he's using all the expensive words that he paid thousands of dollars for. See? I ever so softly suggested in a positive way that he comes inside. I'm not actually close to the door because I don't even have a scholar on them. But they're building a condo across street from our condos. Oh, shit. You're getting neighbors? I won't be here. I'm having two months, two months. I gotta get a house again. These guys need a yard. They told me we had a fucking family meeting. We had a pile out. And Donna was like, look, I need a yard. So anyways, back to my story. You need a white-y closet. Yeah, well, she has that. It's like they said, you know, it's like fipping on the numbers. Well, that whatever the real numbers are, I'm like, well, you don't know. It's, it's like if if if you've knocked out 20 dudes and you tell them, I'm like, oh, fuck. It's a lot. If you tell me 50 and I find out the numbers much lower, I'm like, oh, maybe he's a bitch. Yeah, even if it's 30. Yeah, I like like one. Yeah, yeah, yeah, you're deadlift 800, but you say 850, I just know you're a fucking liar. But what that's a great quote. If you, if you can deadlift 800, but you say 50, you're still a fucking liar. Yeah, and 800's fucking badass. Yeah, ruins impressiveness. Yeah. I don't, I've never, which, you know, that's a whole other rabbit hole. That's he. Yeah, we got a he, he's a human psyche. Deep into the human psyche. Listen into too many of those podcasts. I was in the you when you, and as you get into like that, this move, yeah, as boys and I start anything. And in your micro dosing and here we go. It's exactly. I watched the interstellar the other night. By the way, I don't know why the word micro dosing made me think of interstellar, but sort of like, I wasn't really saying that. I'm like, you know, the whole like, you know, a hot-toned one. Yeah, yeah, anyways, I know we love that movie, and we watch, I watch it again, Emily, and I sat down and gave it a real nice thorough, proper viewing, amazing movie. So those of you haven't seen it, we've recommended it on the podcast a few times. Yeah, yeah. Okay. Okay, so you're healthy and everything's going well. Awesome. We'll just go back from from when the fuck there was a Jackson bill. Yeah, you're in Florida. Yeah, and it was awesome. It was good. I went to where people go to produce content and win superables. Well, but I feel like Northern Florida is basically Georgia. I got it. Yeah, why I've heard Northern Florida is like a different world. Yeah, it's not Florida. Yeah, but it was awesome. And yeah, the thing was good. I trained at a gym that was like 5,000 square feet and literally all our snow equipment. Yeah, I saw that. I said you're using some arsenal stuff. Yeah, could you use some pieces you'd never had never tried before? Well, I got to use my shoulder press. What I say mine, because we have one on order with the handles just a little bit different than the hammer. Huge fan, huge fan of that one. Now, which one is that? Is that like just because I've used a seated arsenal shoulder press before? It's the seated. Yeah, I mean there's nothing like fancy about it. Yeah, it's just a, yeah, it felt good. I'm trying to figure out what to hell the name of that place was because he gave me, he gave me some shirts and stuff. But yeah, I used a couple of pieces and you know what's funny? I then as my videographer didn't know the dumbbells are like the most expensive piece in the gym. Oh, so you're explaining what? Yeah, because I was like, what was I as town? I'm like, I'm looking at this small gym and I'm like, he's got upwards of $150,000 equipment in here. For sure. I mean everything in there, you know? And then I said, well, fuck, the dumbbell is alone. Or, you know, if you got to steal on a 20 grand, he was like, what? That was like, oh yeah, the dumbbells are the money. So whenever you see like, you know, when you see a gym, it's got the custom dumbbells with their logo in the back. I'm always like, there's a lot of money. I had some advice from a guy once who owned a bunch of gyms. And he said, get the good dumbbells, but don't get your logo on him. Because they're harder to sell. That's about the plus one goes in. You don't get your logo on him. Get good dumbbells, but don't get them logo. And then you can get new dumbbells one day and the be easier to sell your old dumbbells. And another gym can buy them off you. He's like, because I guess he had logo dumbbells once. And he said, they were like a bitch to sell. Like you need someone who doesn't care that your gym logo is on them, right? So some home gym guys are home on. Yeah. Yeah, you know what I mean? So it's just kind of funny funny advice funny solid advice. Okay. I got a couple good questions. I'm sure we'll go off on some tangents. But I got some good ones. What do you talk about? Why would we do that? That's one of your things to say. Well, now you have to tell me that we would go on a tangent. Oh, we ever. If we ever just went off the rails for 20 minutes. Oh, wait. Yes, we have. Okay. Okay. Let's start with this one, Dusty. Let's start with this one. Let's go big. What's your most? I know we've probably discussed this before, but I don't remember what your answer was. And maybe you got a different one now. What's your most embarrassing moment working out in the gym? I don't have anything earthshattering. Like just dumb shit. Like not paying attention in like the rack that holds the the pull down bars and shit like knocking into one and knocking four of them off. But I mean, shit like that doesn't make that's like spilling your coffee. Like I don't even break speed thinking about it. You know what I mean? Yeah, yeah, yeah. You just fix it and move on. Yeah, so I don't, yeah, I don't have anything bad. You. I have a pretty good one. I might have told this story before. Did I tell you the story about when I tipped over the leg press? No, but that's definitely embarrassing. That's worse than knocking one bar off the damn thing. You guys training at a gym. You're a good guy's at own that gym. They kind of let me get away with murder. And I was training the legs one day and they had the leg press in the hack squat back to back like this. Right? So the leg press in the hack squat and they went but did right up against one another. And so I was finished my last set. I remember I had the leg press loaded up. So I had like 11 plates aside. I remember that leg press held 11 plates aside and I had it full right to the end of the pin. And so I stood on the one side and I started pulling plates off and putting them on the frame. Right? But then I thought oh, I've also got to put some plates on the hack because I'm going to the hack neck. So I threw a few up on the hack squat pin. Right? You know, as I could go straight into three plates on that hack no problem. So I just loaded up three on that and then I kept putting them on the frame but I was putting them on the hack squat frame and not on the leg press frame. And not on the leg press frame. So there's only like two or three plates on the leg press frame on that side and 11 plates on the other side on the on the sled. And the leg press stuff wasn't bolted down in there. It was like it was on the island. A lot of old people trained there. No, I'm sure no one fills that fucking leg press up. Right? And so it just been the first time that anyone had 11 plates out on the arm. I would on the sled and hardly any plates on the frame on the far side. And I just kept pulling them off. But I was standing because I'd put some on the hack. I was standing like why. And I was I wasn't putting them on the leg press pins. And all of a sudden I pulled like, you know, one of the last plates off. And I just saw the pin go right up in front of my face. So the fucking arm just did you try to grab it? I don't remember. But I remember like as it turned as it flipped plates went. Bing, Bing, Bing, Bing, Bing, Bing, Bing, like just started sliding. I feel like I pulled up a plate. Yeah. And the leg press just flipped on its side. And it was fucking loud because this gym didn't have a rubber floor everywhere. So the leg equipment was on concrete. Was this a concrete floor? And it was so fucking loud. And I remember the owner came running in and there was hardly anyone trained in that day. And the scary thing though was they had a scissy squat bench. You know, there's the ankle bench for scissy squats beside the leg press. And they're had been a guy using that. The whole time I was leg pressing, he was doing scissy squats. He had just moved on. He had just moved on that that scissy scrub was covered in a pile of plates with a leg press right in it. So yeah. You know what's bad about that about your story is I'm such an asshole. Like if I saw that I'd be like, are you fucking kidding, dipshit? It's a teeter tater. You can't take the weight off of one side because I literally and I don't even, I mean, I don't know equipment like you do and I understand it's it's racked. But I will take off. If I was alone and say I had 20 plates on leg press 10 aside, I'd take two off of the right walk left take two off. Walked right like I literally go back and forth. Right. Go it down to zero because I'm in my head. I don't want to fuck up the machine even though it's on the thing and I'm sure it doesn't matter. But I wouldn't unload a Smith that way. So I don't unload a leg press that way. Do you know what I mean? Yeah. So like a leg press in a hack, I would usually go like halfway, go around halfway, go around like right. So I normally do. But that day I was just pulling plates off onto the frame and it's just fucking fucking fucking because I know that brand of leg press that was what the one I grew up on. It was exactly the same as the old one I grew up on. So I knew that if you had plates on the frame it was totally fine and all that stuff. But it was a bolt to down either and maybe get used to equipment that's bolt to down and some gems, you know, fucking crazy. I always freak out when people pull like let's say they have 225 on a bar and they pull both plates off one side. Yeah, I know technically that'll hold but I wouldn't do that either. It'll hold but it's like you don't have to lean on the end very hard to flip it at that whole fucking love tap. Yeah, so it's like I'm always like yeah. So I always think also even is it perfectly centered like if it was slid, I would put it flip right. I think it probably could or if the rax little narrower. Yeah. No, I don't I'm the same like that's a that's a one back and forth. Right. Right. You know, right. It's a bench so I'm not using much way the other way it's a mubitch on pressing so it's all good. Okay, your turn. Careful, I've got some good ones. Okay, you haven't watched Piki yet though. You still haven't watched Piki blinder. Oh I have and I'm I'm I'm on some shows but I'm backed up. All right, well I'm going to answer this real quick then but the question is who's my favorite Piki blinder character? Oh, and it's on my knees. It's Alfie Solomon's Diamond Clost's fucking unreal. So yeah, that's that and Scott Thomas. I hope that that's your favorite as well. So okay next to him. I'm looking forward to watching that show. Hey, here's a question. This is a good one for you though. Wait, you like this? What color chucks are the best and why is it red? I'm smiling. I read that one. That's funny. That's good shit. It goes with half of what I own. Man, okay, here's one. Let's let's say I hope you got I'm I'm kind of expecting. Oh boy, kind of expecting an answer out of your desk here on this one. I'm going to your drinker. Get an excited. Yeah. Okay, go. It's from a friend of mine. What's something that you do? But you don't think anyone else does? Something. I do. Like anyone else does? Well, I think he's being. I don't think he means any other human on the planet but not typical like any, you know, like anything you do is a bodybuilder that you don't think other bodybuilders do anything you do as a human being. Yes. Probably everything in my house. I get an encompass the entire thing and say if you were to come to my house at any point in time every single thing I know exactly where it is. Meaning like if you said to me where is the onion powder? It's right there on the second self second for the right. Right because that's how I keep my house. So I think that would be my weird thing. Like yeah, I could direct you to my house like it's street maps. Right. If somebody so what's funny like you told I forgot to grab my mic, you know? And my housekeeper was here and I was gone and she moved the mic stand and I didn't know where it was. That was I had a small heart attack while I was looking for the mic that's why it took so long. Right. So how would you say your house is like a macculately organized? Would you put it that way? Yes. End clean. And so what else is a macculately organized and clean? Like what do you consider your domain? Like the inside of your vehicles the same? And the outside. And the outside to your vehicle in your house. Where does it stop? Is that pretty much it? It doesn't the gym now. The gym has become mine. I'm actually I haven't done it yet. I have to call him today, but we're enforcing a new rule on leaving weights on the equipment. I'm going to do like a $30 fine or you can sacrifice your membership. Those are your options. Right. Because I'm sick of that. I watched a kid yesterday actually was funny. We're training and I said, Tommy, he said I could have like pressed and he's like, yeah, I said you see him dead. Lifting yesterday? He was fucking getting after it. And he wasn't like crazy strong, but I mean, that kid didn't leave a single rat, right? So here I put him on this pedestal. And I was like, I said, I like that fucking kid. Fast forward 30 minutes. He leaves the leg press with 200 on it on each side. And it four plates. So I see him walking out and I'm like, okay, nope. Walk or my hey, you should off the fucking leg press. He's like, oh, sorry. I forgot him like night in. You chose. You chose to leave your shed. I'm like, there's women in here that can't take that 100 pound plate off. But that drives me fucking that shit. Yeah. So and if you leave an inch on that, it gets bad. Like I'm telling you, like by default, if you were a messy person, but you came into my house, you wouldn't be messy. Because you would look around and be like, fuck, if I leave one thing, it's going to, you'd wipe my counter off, you know, water on it. You don't mean? Yeah. That's how it is at the gym. If you keep that standard at your gym, I know damn well, people that maybe would leave their shit on some other gym, don't at your gym. Right. So yeah. So no, it doesn't stop anywhere. And I actually judge people on their put on their pictures too. You know, and people put a picture up on Instagram and it's like, they're hitting a great shot and I'm like, you live like that. That shit behind you. You should clean that up. That's all I can see. I don't even see your body. I remember I'm all gone the ground with the fuck you remember when when Seth had like two little kids and he posted those photos of him and he was living room and there's toys everywhere. And he's on that one because what it is. But yes, I do actually, I remember because I mean, I did that when I take a picture of my food. I'll see like a piece of paper that's not supposed to be there. And I'm like, oh, one sec. I'll lean forward and move it. Yeah. No, I know what you mean. That's why I don't really like, you know, I don't do stuff inside the condo very often. You know, we've always got something like kind of a pile of something here, pile of something there. I know like it's always really clean and tidy but it would be like one pile. You know, like we're always living in the males right there. Yeah, the males are there on the table and I go to take a shot and I'm like, I don't want my male in the shots. I just don't take the shot. You know, I'm going to take a half-up and male is sitting right here. You know, you know, I, I, I, and I, and I don't care, but I'm consumed with you judging me. You know, so great amount of the two. I said, I can't, I shouldn't judge, but I do. So here's what I'm going to say. And it's okay because you're allowed to judge me too. The only problem is I know all my shit. Right. You, you, you handle judgment very well. Like you see it coming. Wow, could I not? I'm going to fucking open target. I had to guy ask me the other day about my, like, what pants I wear. I'm like, I think they stopped making these pants in like 2012. And I still had, and it's funny because my friend that's a oral surgeon, she sewed them once for me. And I said, I have a surgeon sewing my pant crotch because there's a hole. Because I, because I liked them. I told her I was like, I said, your parents must be so proud of where the money went. Yes. How's, how's, how's, how's your work going? I'm doing good with surgery. I got into hobby. Fixing jeans for my buddy exactly. And then the bourgeois, like they just looked that bad. They even looked terrible. So it's like, I judge knowing that I'm an open target as well. And that's okay. I'm fucking old and they don't make cool pants anymore. So what are I going to do? Right. I feel yeah. I feel yeah. It was funny. We're watching an episode of our show the other night. And they had like a flashback to like 20 years ago. And he was wearing shit. You were in that day. No, and there's like this, there's this like hot older woman who's in it. She's kind of milky, right? She's kind of like want to like the attractive women in the show. And it flashes back. And they've got her like, you know, they do the makeup. So she looks younger. And they got her hair like a little bit different. And she's wearing low-rise jeans. Like really low-rise jeans. And I'm like, low-rise jeans. Oh, man. I said I've been the edge of my seat. Emily just looks at me. She's like, because she does, she loves that, you know, all the girls love the high-wasted stuff. Right. Yeah. Like that. I know. And I'm always, I'm always joking about it. I can't wait for low-rise jeans to come back. Yeah. So like if you should, the fact that you can safely sit down without half your ass hanging out, you're just not acceptable to. I want to see the T-bar like peeking out of me. Like reach over the counter to get something. I want T-bar. You remember like the, it was it when we thought we were making progress, destiny. Tattoo and lower back. Might as well be a bullseye. Like that's the, that's the world that I was doing well in and was happy in. And this and this new world is just difficult for me sometimes. Thank you. I would agree. Okay. Hey, what's going on, guys? Thanks for watching another podcast here at Think Big Body Building Media. And thank you to our great sponsor, TrueNutrition.com for making this all possible. TrueNutrition.com is owned by Dante Trudeau, the creator of DC training. You wanted to create a supplement company that offered high quality third party test and supplements at a fair price. High quality protein powders, just about every type you could think of. Huge variety of flavors, plus health and performance supplements. Check them out, TrueNutrition.com. And hey, if you use our code advices, you directly support our podcasting. Thanks, guys. Let's get back to the program. You got one or is it my turn? It is your turn. If you, if you had a warning label for your self, what would it say for other people to read? If you came with a warning label. Oh my god. Wow, that's a that's a that's a beautiful one. Man, what would it say? What is your aim? I'm not thinking. I'm thinking. I often think that I, I, I talk about things that no one else gives a shit about. So if you're like warning, we'll talk for 10 minutes about something that you don't fucking care about. Warning, we'll see. Well, you'll be, you'll be driving in the car with this, this, this human and a song will come on and you will get a story from 1998. And we're really sorry about that. That's what happens when you travel with this model of human. The Ron Parallel edition will rend us and tell you a story that you don't want it. You don't care about and won't remember. Yeah, I mean, that's my warning label. It's good. You know, I think, I mean, I hate to say it, but like my mind would be something on the lines or what we just talked about. Like warning, he's absolutely judging you. But I do that. It's always bad, but I literally will be sitting somewhere. It's the same way. I went to a restaurant the other day. And I remember the lady, it's just like a buy your chicken and leave it kind of place. And I remember thinking, if I had a business here, I would hire her. I would steal her from here. Right. Because she was that good. So it's not always shitty. Sometimes it's really good or like I had a really weird waitress recently that would choose. Like, here comes your stupidest chicken salad with a touch of lemon. And I'm like, relax. And it was every time she came. This is your wonderful diet coke. I'm like, it's a fucking diet coke. Relax. Right. Right. Right. And she was training a kid and I could see his face. Like, I don't know if I want this job enough to work with her for two more days. And right. Our entire table was like a running thing. We were like, I wonder what the next thing's going to be. So then when he, she finally like let him come to the table, you know, he's like, here's your fucking chicken. I'm like, my man. Like you could see he was so irritated. He like brought it down so far. He's like, oh, here's the rest of your shit. That's good. So yeah, that would be me. I'm definitely watching judging. Look at the baby. Look at the baby. You know, I, I would also come with a warning that I spontaneously nap at any time. Do not be offended. Right. I might need to nap. You might be all excited. And I'm just going to go to sleep in the car for a bit while we're driving. That, that has to happen. Would you agree? I, I, I love that. I do it all the time. I need to gym 10 minutes early. I'm not pretty close. My ass. So if it's like day, and going the back office, turn the lights off. Put my head phones in, place a music, pull my hat down. And like, sometimes a fall seat for like 10 minutes. And then I have my alarm set for when we're supposed to train. And just like, goes off. And I just walk straight out on the gym floor. That's that's my favorite way to train legs. It's go from like a sleep to warming up on the bike in like a 60 second time period. Yeah, I'm the same. It doesn't bother me at all. And you know, some people can't take a little nap. No, like I, it'll crack close my head. Yeah, I've got a minute. Yeah. I'm like, that's roll. Yeah. I'm fresh again. You know, yep. Yep. Your turn now, isn't it? Yes, it is. And I got a million. You got to go first. Favorite condiments or salad dressings that you use hot sauce and sugar free ketchup. It's pretty much all I use. What's that? What kind of hot sauce? Frank's red hot, just basic Canadian hot sauce. Frank's is not Canadian. I thought it was. I thought it was stabbed out of no, that's true. I just fucking came over the hot ways. I thought it was. Yeah. Now, it was under the impression Frank's red hot was Canadian. You use it down there. You, Frank's red hot? One second. And then, you know, if I go out, I'll have Teriyaki sometimes, but I don't really have it in my house. It says that they are the Canadians reach for Frank's red hot sauce. That's number one. Wait. It's actually made in the States. Produced in Springfield, Missouri. Okay. Okay. He liked how strong I came out and I didn't even know that was an answer. I was like, stop, man, get out of here. Like, really? We just, we just haven't here, too. I thought it was more popular in Canada than it was in the States for like a long time. Like, you guys used to like to bask go in other hot sauces. You would, too, I remember there was a Frank's isn't always at like a store where I restaurant. Yeah. Like, if you ask for hot sauce at a restaurant, they won't see give you to basket. I don't think or they'll bring like, or the or the or Saracho or you know, I'm sure something. Whereas up here, if you say hot sauce, they bring you like a big like fucking side cup of Frank's. You know what I mean? Was that yours? That was mine. Best three supplements for broke college kids. Creatine, mono hydrate. I mean, I'm not counting vitamins and minerals just so you know, and EA would be something I would definitely use. What about like a way isolate? Yeah, I have to but you can consider that if you did that. Yeah, I do, but if we were going to it, I would say way and I wouldn't even say it has to be an isolate. Yeah, because it's cheaper, you know? Yeah, I would say just a good way protein. Creatine mono hydrate. And I would put a good protein and creatine mono hydrate so far up the ladder above other supplements that I'm not even going to list a third supplement. Right. Yeah, I mean, like if you said what's it like creating to someone like you should use broke because it says he's broke. So I would just say, I would just say if you broke get a protein and a creatine mono and save the rest of your money and buy food. That's what I would say. Right. And if you make good choices with your food, you won't need a lot of subs. If you know if you eat a certain amount of fish, you won't need to take fish oil if you eat, you know, blah, blah, blah. You know what I mean? This is a good one and I need your answer because I suck at this. What would you consider strong for a normal person? Normal person? I think I don't know. I for some reason, I always thought that any normal dude like just Joe from the office or Bob from the bakery or whatever, any dude that can bench 225 is like really strong compared to most people. People can't bench 225. We had this discussion before. Like they just have never, you know, most people have never fucking bench pressed. You know, normal person, you know, anytime I see someone rapping 225 in the gym, I'm like, oh, guys actually like really strong, you know, population wise. That's funny. We had that another question. If 225 for 10, put you in the top, well, 5% of the world, there's something like that. No, I don't know. Maybe. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Anyway, you could deadlift three plates. Pretty strong. Like, you know, turn around deadlift, most people. You know, like the break. And I think you know this, like, I think a lot of people assume that you're watching their strengths when you're in the gym and when I'm what impresses me with people is intensity. Yeah. Like I literally don't give a shit how much weights in the bar. I was like I said, just that kid the other day, like I looked over and he was deadlift in like 275 or something. Nothing crazy. I remember in my brain going fuck. Nice. Yeah. You know what I mean? You know, I, you're getting after it. And I'm rowing 455 right next to him. But my brain wasn't thinking about numbers. It was like, you know, you're watching somebody and like, oh, he's done and then he gets one more. He goes down there. He's deaf. Oh, he's going to go like he went until he couldn't go. I was like, there's a bunch of young guys at my gym. Because like, I'm also a safety guy, right? Like, I'll train to absolute failure anytime. And I've dumped a lot of squat bars off my back, squatting to failure. Yeah. And I, but I always set the rack up. Yeah. Because I wanted it to like be safe. And, and I understand that no rack, you got to do it or die. And I'm like, well, that's that's funny games. But once they, I don't know, there's a point where I'm like, no, I'll just set the rack that's. Yeah. I don't think it ever makes sense. Like, I do get because I used to squat free. But it's because if I was doing that, I don't have a spotter, which meant I was, yeah, my plan was to jump forward. Like, so it's hitting the rack or it's hitting the ground. And I'm squatting in a power rack, like, or on a platform. So it's okay if it falls. But I do think that, you know, even then, it's going to that level of failure is like, I love, I've been, I think I video to two years or it's been a long time. But one time I had a video, I was training alone. I got pinned by the hack squat. I went out and it came back down. And I saw I posted the video that way. Because it's what happened. And I remember people were like, oh, I can't believe you left that. And I'm like, what do you mean? There's a great fucking set. Yeah. I just thought I had one more. And I didn't know. There's a, there's a, a young guy my gym in the squatts were all heavy. He doesn't, he looks, he looks thin for his strength. So whenever he's squatting, I always notice people like look at him and then look at the bar and raise our eyebrows and stuff like that. Kids aren't going to squat that because he doesn't look big and he'll go up to like four plates. He looks like skinny like, I don't know what he weighs. One eighty or something. Yeah. But he'll he'll go up to four plates and it just sort of like people notice or like that. Looks like a lot of weight this guy's going to get crushed, but then he backs it out and he fucking squats it no problem. But he squats without the pins up. He's always takes them right out. And he like squats, max, like they are max. He's going to absolutely, like he'll do a heavy single where like the bar goes up like this fast. Oh, it's just, yeah. I'm, I'm sorry. I'm, I'm leaving the pins in if I move. And I'm tempted to go say to him like dude, you should leave the pins up, but at the same time he's never failed. Yeah. Maybe that's his thing. He's never dropped one. I'm not letting it be in option. Yeah. Yeah. I do like that that when someone's surprised. You know who did that for me, like one of the first people to throw me off with the Zarya when I trained legs with her the first time. And she squatted 225 like 15. Yeah. I'm like, like asked to grasp perfect for her and she wasn't to failure. She like got done and just wrapped it. Yeah. Yeah. You weigh like 120 pounds. Yeah. Does it get a much at the gym who, who, uh, man, he, he's pretty, he's a pretty small dude. He must weigh like 165, but he goes up to four plates and like does triples. Right. And I'm like, you're really strong. He's like, oh, it's only 405. And I'm like, yeah, but you weigh, what do you weigh? Like, you know what I mean? It's just, it's a press. I like seeing that. Okay. Is it my turn? Yeah. Absolutely. Where do you see bodybuilding heading next? What is the next era? Yeah. We're in a, we're in a, I mean, like, my, my, my, my answer is I don't supply willing changing anything. Like, even as we add more divisions and do, like, I feel like there's this, this desire to see it going mainstream and really what's happening is the sport is opening enough that more people are coming to it. Yeah. We're never going to go to the people. We're not, you're never going to see us on ESPN or in the Olympics or any of those things. And that's, I don't, like, I never even understood a desire. Yeah. I like us being, we are. And if you're interested, come see. You know, it's like, it's, it's the, it's the comparison to a circus. Like, you know, you're going to have to come to us if you want to see the fruits. And, and I think that, like, it has opened up more and more because there are more things to look at. But at the end of the day, bodybuilding is as freaky or freaky or than ever, I'm really stoked to see, like this year, what made me happy at the Olympia is we have a clear divide between bodybuilding and classic physique. Yeah. Yeah. That's good to see. And we need that at the local level, the regional level, the national level. Because I still get a lot of guys that hit me up and they're like, take them into New classical. I think that's a fucking terrible idea. You're a small bodybuilder and it's going to take years to get you to become a big bodybuilder, but you're not classic. They just think because they're smaller, but they're classic. Because their weight is a certain number. Yeah. It's like, well, I can based on my height, I can make weight. And I'm like, yeah, like me, like, yeah. No, there's nothing you're, you're 170 doesn't look great. Yeah. That other guys 170 looks crazy because he has real small bones and round muscle bellies and better genetics. So he can be 170 and look awesome, but you at 170 just look like you need to gain 20 pounds of muscle. Well, I know I can tell you this when I was when I when I was lighter, people used to guess that I weighed less than I did. Yeah. Because I bone structure so heavy. It wasn't until I was like 260 plus that people started guessing higher than I weighed. I'm the I'm the the sort of the same way. People always guess lower. They'd be like, what do you two 75 would be like, I'm 290. Right. Oh, you know, or 300, but then once I was 320, people were like, what do you 320? Yeah. Yeah. That's what I'm saying. You do hit a point where it stops. And now most people guess higher than I am. You know, like when I'm right at even 280, they're like, what do you weigh like 300? I'm like, 9. Close. See, I get that now because I stay real lean. So you got a lot of people are like, man, what do you walk around at 275? I'm like, I'm 250. You're like, what? So that's a good thing though. I always want to feel like people think I'm bigger than I am not smaller. Yeah. I had to retire to get that to happen. Did you see that? Did you see the retirement? Yeah. The meme of all the pictures of Tom Brady's face. And it says, you know, I COVID alone to be around a year. And then it said COVID. It's like he looks he actually and he actually ages in reverse. He's better looking than when he got drafted. It's amazing what money and winning will do. I saw another one that was funny. It said, Tom Brady's kids visit the Super Bowl like they're heading to grandma's every year. Yeah, we go on this year. Yeah. We go on this year. Yeah. The picture that was it. It was his daughter that's definitely not 10 years old. And that's his 10th trip to the Super Bowl. God, oh yeah. You can tell she's she's bored. She's always another parade. We have another parade to go to. Yeah. Yeah. I love the perspectives of things. I think it was funny, but I was watching this thing God took two years ago. Gary V took his daughter to a next game. Right. And she's like, how do people get seats way up there? And he's like, oh, well, it's, you know, you just you just pay for your seats. And that's where she said she's like, they're lucky. And she's on the floor. No perspective of what's happening. Like we're sitting in $10,000 see three now honey. Exactly. What are you talking about it? So up high. Exactly. And when you're that they just like, that's fucking awesome. Yeah. It's you know, down here where they're getting sweat on. Yeah. Well, it's funny. I remember going to concerts and you know, pushing myself up to the railing. Getting kicked in the face and other people sweat all over. Why the fucking, you know, I came out of, I came out of some concerts with my shirt missing, you know. Like, and then, and I remember looking up at the, you know, the booths, you know, all the fancy booths, and taking all those fucking losers up there don't know how to go to a concert. You know what I mean? And then, you know, years later, you're sitting in the booth eating some chicken fingers watching the show from your comfortable seat. You know, like those disgusting pigs down there in the front row by the railing. I can't imagine living like that. You know, DNA soup going on there just disgusting. Barbary. Are you sure you did? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Can I sit up here? What's more chicken fingers, please? I'm a little low on ranch over here. Yeah. Yeah. No ranch. Come on now. Barbacy sauce. I'm going to have to go. That's a separate, that's a separate YouTube channel. Sorry. I have a whole argument about where, where, where you get your chicken fingers and what you put on them. Because I had find I get different things at different places based on their chicken fingers. Anyway, separate subject. Okay. Is it my turn? It's true. It is. It is. Oh. Okay. When are you going to do a podcast with your buddy Jose? That would be hilarious. Scott, this is the part where you're going to put a link to the one that we did like six weeks ago with Jose. Yeah. So you've had Jose on twice, right? Yeah. And one was before the Olympia like yeah close to it. You know what? Because that was the one I had to reschedule. You had to reschedule. Yeah. We did that one. Yeah. Okay. Here's a great one. I we both got this one and I saw you already mentioned it but I got to bring it up again. Oh boy. Here we go. So far this you ever traveled to get laid. And there it is again. Well, you know, it really depends because you know, I could go this as far as saying that sometimes we were in Germany and I needed to go home to get laid. Oh, right. Not still. So, you know, if you're really thinking about it, I've made some long trips. Right. I don't know. But I found the more impressive question I got the other day was, what is the smallest place that you've ever gotten laid? And mine was the three series, Yom W. Two door. Wow. Yeah. I'm a ninja. So there you go. I didn't say it was good. I said I got the job done. So now you have to answer both. I've added your question. I fucking went up there. And you don't get it. So no, I just tried to find the car model. The car model. This is great. Now like yeah. Yeah. I can't remember the model. And now I'm a lot. Yeah. Come on. Yeah. Come on. No, it was small. It was small. Oh, yeah. So, it's okay. I fucking love the face. Here it goes. Okay. So the farthest ever traveled to get laid. I don't know the farthest. I guess, you know, I don't know distance. But I'll tell you the the most harrowing trip that I ever made was I drove three hours in a really dangerous horrible blizzard in your truck in a pickup truck. Your pickup truck. So one of the couple sent a few a couple sandbags in the back just to give it a little extra weight. And there was all these warnings. Stay out the highway. That's so certain. Come on. Don't do it. Yeah. Don't drive in. I'm like, I'm a farm kid. Does this sound? Don't do it, Ron. Yeah. I'm like, I'm a farm kid. I'm not a city kid. I don't have to listen to the squeeze. I don't have to listen. I don't have to listen to these fucking driving warnings. I'm a farm kid. I can do a can drive through anything. These people are idiots. And I got off work that night around 10 p.m. Remember, I was working at sellers. It's like a department story, you know. And I got off work at 10 p.m. It punched out hit the highway. And it was it's about a three hour drive. And I think her parents ride a town or something. So she said, come over for the weekend. And it's like a three hour drive. But it took me like four and a half, five hours. Because it was it was fucking terrible. And I wound up getting behind this semi. And just following the semi because the semi was like clearing the road. You drafted him the whole way. I like drafted the semi because like the the drift, the snow drift was so crazy. I was afraid out. I couldn't really see where the road was. Right. But the semi, you know, he's got all those fucking huge lights on him. And he's like, just plow him through. When he would go through all the snow, would blow off the road, you could see the lane. Right. So I just got behind him. And I just fucking, because I was trying to drive, you know, it was really dangerous. I was like, white knuckleed and starting to think I should turn around. And then I got locked in behind the semi. And I was like, yeah, I can make it. I was just fucking following this guy. We went slow. But I made it. And that I got, I got to the other end of that trip. And I was just like, holy fuck. You know, luckily, luckily things worked out. She saw that us true love. That's commitment. You know, commitment. And you still didn't come up with your with the cars. That hurts my feeling. But oh, no, I had to look it up. Toyota, Yaris. Nice. They done. Yeah. You're seeing that figurine taller than me, too, just for those who are keeping score. Yeah. Yep. Hey, you got to do what you got to do. I'm proud to say. That'd be the smallest. Let's see here. No airplanes. When you, okay. Yeah. No. There's a few things I've never understood. Like the whole like obsession with the mile high club. Like, if you're been with those bathrooms, like, bathrooms are disgusting anyways. You don't want to like, there's just nothing about that that I'm like, oh, this will be necessary. Yeah. On. Hey. Now I'm out. I'm out. I worked in the clubs. So like, you know, I see people fucking installs before. Yeah, of course. That's not good. That's disgusting animals. Oh, you know what I mean? Oh, get it. Come on, dusty. I'm trying to get some good ones here. Hit me up. It's close to circle five. Five. Where'd we? Oh, here's a good one. Any celebrity that you would love to train with? Oh. Why? I mean, love to train with a rock. That'd be fun. Right. You know, that'd be fun to train with a rock. Um, I don't know. What other celebrities? My initial was you Jackson. You Jackson. Jackson. Oh, I don't see them because I've seen it. He used to train at San Diego worlds. And I loved it because he was already John Cena at that point. And he would be in there fucking blasting. Like, like, leg day was like he was, you know, 19 year old kid just trying to get big fucking wheels, you know, I thought that was super impressive because it's like I can definitely see how success and money and all that could soften you if this isn't what you love to do. You know what I mean? Like he was training in there like he was there to work, not like he was John Cena. And like to the point that people weren't bugging when it was training because they knew better. But I don't think it was respect. It was more like, no, that fucking guy is getting after it. We just we'll wait over here. Yeah. Yeah. He would be he would be tough to keep up with. Literally that's how brutal. Yeah. So at the rock, I see the rocks work out. It's like, you know, he does a lot of like, you know, a lot of super sets and stuff and high wraps. Like you finish his workout with, you know, five sets of 20 on the on the safety bar squat and, you know, just like, like, this is a lot of sets. A lot of volume. I don't know. Hugh Jackman deadlifts heavy. He trains hard Wolverine. That's it. He chimes really hard. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I don't know. Yeah. There's been I remember when there is a deadlift video of him pulling like 450 when he was getting ready for Wolverine. He was deadlift in like 450 and everyone's like, you know, Jack, it's Hugh Jackman on steroids and people are like, no 450 is not a crazy deadlift. He's just real. He's doing real good for almost 50. He's like he's like in his mid 40s, right? Right. At that point. And they're like, Hugh Jackman trains real hard. He's a really good shape, you know. And I'm not bad. He is on TV because why were you not be a his. Yeah. Who gives a shit? It has nothing to do with why he's deadlifting 450. That's for sure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's cool. It's me. Do you think there's a difference? Between body builders and influencers who compete? I don't like all in come with the answers. Because my answer is yes, but also no, but also no. Because like, oh, no, because literally, here's what's funny. If you were to say to me, are you a bodybuilder or you an influencer? I would not say bodybuilder. And that sounds funny to people, but it's like, my career exists because of influencing in social media. If it was the 90s, I'd be starving. If we were lying on winning as a bodybuilder to be the reason I'm sponsored, I wouldn't have any sponsors. So by default, I think I'm more that than the other. But in that exact same sentence, it's going to be really hard to find someone who bodybuilds more bodybuilder ish than I do. Right. You know what I mean? Like, because I would train this way without social media, I would. You know, and I guess it goes all the way back to like what is a bodybuilder because I don't think you have to even compete to be a bodybuilder. Right. You know, I think you have to compete to be a competitive bodybuilder, but that doesn't mean you're not bodybuilding. So yeah. Yeah. So here's my thing. Here's my thing. I totally agree with you with the yes and no sort of thing. It depends on how you want to word it. It's all down to semantics with this stuff. But one thing that I always wanted to do was I always wanted the term bodybuilding to have a more positive connotation to it. Right. So if someone is working out watching their nutrition, putting in some effort and wanting to physically look more muscular, right, whether it be, you know, I like how like I shoulders cap out and they don't know how to word it. You know, I want my triceps to pop more and they say, you know, they use words like that. Like, that don't really mean anything. You want to add muscle and lose fat. And you want to look cosmetically appear more muscular is what you want. You just don't know how to put it into words. Right. And if you use a word muscular, a lot of people are like, oh, oh, no, no, that's what you want. One apps, you want the cut here on the shoulder. That's more muscular. Right. I want those people to not be afraid to say they're doing some bodybuilding. Yeah, I'm taking up some bodybuilding. You got a new hobby. Instead of saying, I'm working out and trying to get leaner and trying to, you know, add a little muscle. They're afraid to use the word. And I think the word applies to them. They're their bodybuilding. They're their bodybuilding. Just like you might do another hobby of some kind, you know, I'm doing jujitsu at a lowest level. It's still jujitsu. Yeah, you're still doing some jujitsu, you know, pricing some jujitsu, you know, a sock, but a practicing some, you know, so they're doing some bodybuilding. Yeah. And I think that's across the board, right? Because yeah, I say that's my female clients as well. Well, when you're looking at your bodybuilding, they might be a bikini girl. But to me, that's all encompassing. Yeah, like a figure athlete contact in the other day and was asking me a lot of questions. And sometimes, and this is no offense to anyone too. And I don't mean this in a bad way. But when you're talking to someone about helping you, like a coach, there's, you know, sometimes people say stuff and you're just like, I don't really think I'm a good fit for this person. Yeah, all the time. You know what I mean? It just happens all the time. Anyways, I just said to this person, I was like, listen, you want to be a figure competitor, like, like, she started naming physiques that she loves. Right. And I'm like, yeah, you're to turn like a bodybuilder. Right. Well, like a significant number of years, so they'll click that. And she was like, well, no, but I don't want to be a bodybuilder. And I'm like, that's what a figure competitor is. It's a bodybuilder with great shape and genetics who I use and high heels who has built a certain type of physique, you know, with a lot of emphasis on silhouette and shape, blah, blah, blah, blah. Right. And so I think people, some people don't quite get that. Yeah. And I also, I also feel your thing about how you like, you know, and my more of an influencer now that I am a bodybuilder. Like, it's weird word to use influencer. I hate that fucking word. But I don't expect anybody. You have to think about influencing is, is it's actually not the goal. So I like when someone will come on my page and argue with me about how I'm doing an exercise. I'm like, I didn't say you had to do it like this. Right. Right. Right. This is a video of me training the way I train. Yeah. And the results it gives me. But if you think it's shit, I wouldn't, if you told me it was shit right to my face, I wouldn't even like argue with you. But I'm okay. Yeah. I don't need you to do what I do. This is just what I do. You know what I mean? Yeah. I also try not to ever hate. I would say never hate the hot, you know, I can't ever hate on someone's hustle. You know? So someone is an influencer. I mean, fuck. They're getting paid. They're getting paid. You know, I might think they, I might not like their branding or whatever. But if they're getting paid for, you know, all the power to them. Did you just silence yourself, Dusty? You guys see, Dad? Hey. Okay. See, look at all this. See the commands. There we go. Are we going to need to edit this? No. We want to leave all that in. It's great stuff. It's great footage. So, so I got one for you. Shoot. Kind of been avoiding drug questions lately. Oh, we're going ahead on. Let's do this. Yeah. But so is there a big difference in the gear between powerlifting, strongman and bodybuilding? In my experience with top level guys. Yes. I don't know enough about strongman to comment. Powerlifting, their way harsh on their bodies and we are way, are sure. I've seen top level power actors cycles and I'm like, oh, fuck. And then to that insult to injury because I know nutrition, a lot of them and not all, but a lot of them still haven't evolved on the eating. So they're also eating terrible food. And I'm like, so you're already a little overweight and you're taking these drugs and you're poisoning yourself with food. Like, you know what I mean? Yeah. So I totally agree on the strongman thing. I honestly don't know if I've really talked to many strongman about drugs at all. I have a fact like a lot of this strongman. I've known I've just been like drug-free strongman to be honest. But I don't know much about that. But the real serious powerlifting that I've talked to. First of all, they don't bother with any they don't bother with having the drugs that a bodybuilder would use because you know fat loss and hardness related. They're just not using them for the most part. But I have seen some really, really high doses of test and really high doses of trend and huge amounts of anodrol and stuff like that. Where I was enough where it made me go like, oh fuck. Yeah. You know, so and you're right about the food, you know, you know, you wonder what the blood lipids look like when there's a, you know, constant influx of, you know, McDonald's and shit. Yeah. I don't know. I don't know. I'm not asking you if you're fucked. I'm just wondering how fucked you are. Right. Right. Right. But yeah, that's all I really know. I've just, you know, seen some crazy cycles. You can have dinner with five people that are alive. Who would they be and why? Oh damn. Yeah. Five people. And we're going to, we're, let's, I'm going to skip on adding like dead family members and shit. Just trying to get people that I can actually. Yeah. I want interesting answers. I don't want, I don't want to say oh my, oh my, my cousin Dave, who's a good guy. I don't want that. Yeah. I believe you, Dave does not. Good guy, but it doesn't matter. Yeah. So I'm really interested in your answer to be honest. Well, there's two that I want to add right off the bat. Okay. So no, let's go three. Fuck, there's three guys that I would love to sit and have dinner with. And then I'm going to add two for my own selfish reasons. Perfect. So we're going to go with Joe Rogan. That's a big, great. Well, he's a professional, long-form conversation with the most interesting people in the world. Minus. So yeah, invite Joe Rogan. He's got some stories and he's got a lot of other and he's got a lot of other stories. Yeah. And he has his own stories. Yeah. And then he get Elon Musk. Yep. I have him on my list. And then he get Dan Carlin. Do you know who Dan Carlin is? The host of Hardcore history? No. It's an amazing podcast. Dan Carlin does these insane six hour journeys into like an epic point in human history. He'll do like a he's got like a nine hour series on gangas con. You know, revenge of the cons or whatever he calls it. And it's all about the whole Mongol empire and you know, all that crazy shit. And so he does, some of the world were to podcast that he has or just so unbelievably in depth. And I would have Dan Carlin because to hear him talk about history is just mind-boggling. The details that he would go into. And then I would invite, I would invite Brian Johnson for Macy DC. Of course, because I just would love to hear that guy's stories, man. And the fifth person got Dan. So top of him. You know, do you just have someone really fun like have Seth MacFarlane? You know, you couldn't really go, couldn't really go wrong. Couldn't go wrong. What am I going to favorite moments with Seth MacFarlane dinner of five? If there used to be a show called dinner dinner with dinner for five. Right. I was on Bravo. And it was John Favro hosted it. John Favro? Yeah. And he would have just random guests and they would eat dinner and that was it. And one episode was Tony Hawk and Seth MacFarlane. And you know, three other people. Right. And Tony Hawk was talking about how he got a dollar aboard back in high school when he was first becoming famous. Powell and Pralto was making the Tony Hawk board and they gave a dollar a board. Right. And he goes, well, how many boards did they sell? And he goes, oh, about a million the first year. And Seth MacFarlane goes, oh, so what you do he goes, I bought a house in grade 11. And Seth MacFarlane goes, I would have so turned to drugs. Oh my god, the amount of things. Seth, you have to have Seth. You have to have Seth. You're still as quotes, so like with Tony Hawk, where he was like, like his teachers would be like, this is never going to go anywhere for you. And he's like, I'm already a millionaire. Like, could you imagine like, because they were that clueless back then. Yes. But now you would say that in grade 11. Yeah, and you're like, I'm actually, you know, the big house on the streaming house, yeah, that's mine. Yeah, actually it's bought a house, but my parents won't let me move into it yet. Yeah, I'm not paying cash because it was, you know, I don't have credit, so I just bought it. God, that's great. You know what's funny? Is I almost think it would be fun to intentionally build like you just said a conversation. Right. Like, I, you know, like, I want to have an explosive dinner. Like, I think I'll have Hillary and Trump. Right, right, right, exactly. Go that rather than to like, like, like, I might just fuck the world up with this one. You know, want to take part, or do you just want to eat and observe? Yeah, I'll be just a bit of a big Bernie, take your mittens off, so we can find it this going. Yeah. Yeah, just make it a terrible one. But no, if I was, if I was really going to, you know what I'd probably do, without going in a crazy depth, I would pick a player from each era of hockey. Oh, yeah, see that like, Gordy how. Yeah, like, and just go, go way back all the way to current to just see, because I think it would also be fun to watch like in a leat guy now, you know, even even someone is as old now or seasons now as like a Sydney, Crosby, imagine him sitting there having a conversation with, you know, Bobby Hole or something, like people who were around like, we're done before he was born. Yeah, yeah, you know, because I would definitely be into that, because I've been watching a lot of hockey again lately and the sports not what it used to be. I don't even, I mean, I'm entertained, but I don't love it like I used to. It's not even the same sport. Yeah, you know, so I can definitely, unlike, you know, people have their arrows and bodybuilding in hockey, it's not a question. If you ask any hockey player, they will tell you the game is different than it was when I was a kid. Yeah. Well, I mean, the goalies are completely armored with way more padding. Well, and everything is just soft. I mean, and like, what are the rules of change? And there's all kinds of rules of change. Fighting will be changed. And yeah, it's frowned upon. I mean, truthfully, and it's funny, because I feel like our entire world just keep getting softer and softer. Like, you know, kind of back to like you were saying, like Tom Brady taking heat, we're not wearing a mask. Yeah. When they go someplace, the entire game without a mask. Yeah. And then, you know, and they like these guys, like, it used to be an unwritten rule if you had a visor on, because when I got played in juniors, not every head to a vibe, just to get up and open face. Or if you were under age, like when I was 16 playing in juniors, we had to wear a mask mask legally. But if I thought I would step back and take my entire helmet off. Right. Like you take it off for them. Now in the NHL, if you take your helmet off, it's an additional penalty. Right. And I'm like, why don't I fight? You got a 90% of this fucking face is covered. Yeah. Like it just seems pointless. You know, so yeah, I would like to get that going. I probably leave off the current air because they're posses, but, you know, that's a good action. The early 2000s and go backwards. There you go. That's a good answer. You could do that a million times. I would be a great show to host again. That show come back on that you just made me think that there was like four seasons of that show. And that a bunch of really interesting episodes. There was a couple where the guests started fighting like it wasn't friendly at all. I can totally see that though. I remember one episode. His name is Rory. The actor's name is Rory. And he was I can't remember his last name, but he was in CSI the Vegas one. Oh, right. Actually, well, so yeah. Anyways, the actor's name is Rory. He was in that and I think it was the Vegas one. Anyway, so he was on the, he was at the dinner table and Vince Bond was at the dinner table. And they had like some previous thing where like, brought it to dinner. No, Vince Vince like started hammering him. He's like, so blah, blah, blah, blah, and you could tell Rory was like, Vince, those people are my friends. We've run through this like, and he's like, blah, blah, blah, and he's like, once again, Vince, like, they're, I'm friends with them, but blah, and you, and, and it was just really weird thing where the rest of the table was like, what's going on? And Vince just started being a fucking dick. And I remember after that episode, I was like, Vince Bond seems like a fucking prick. He seemed like he was going out of his way to be a super huge dick on that episode. I remember it was really weird. So I was just wondered that about him. He wonder how many people are in real life. Yeah. Okay. Is it my turn? Sure. Yeah. Which is your turn. Would you, if so, here's a funny question. I'm going to tweak it a little bit. Is there any point of wealth where you would get a custom made toilet? No, just by a good one. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I would definitely buy a good one. But yeah, no, I can't even imagine, but I like the question because it's weird enough that I can answer that. I saw, you know, how people get stuff wrapped now? Hmm. Like they'll get their car wrapped or whatever. They can get like toilets wrapped, right? So I've seen some funny toilets on Instagram that are like wrapped with like the logo of the business that they're in. I don't want to be shit in on my business. You know, they're in the same, it's like a vinyl wrap. It's just funny. It looks funny. Oh my god, that's that that's going to be the next thing. Oh, if you want, we can show you our toilet for $1,000 a year. You can make it. I'm going to send this to PDF. Your business logo will wrap the whole thing up for you. Right here. You're going to, you're going to piss right on the logo in the urinal. It's going to be great. There you go. Here's, here's a great one. It's just a fun one. We're going to have to take it serious. Who wins in a fight? A fat axle rose or a fat vince Neo. It's a great question. Oh god. I can't, I mean, I can't see Axe Rose fighting his way out of a wet paper sack to be honest with you. No. I just can't. So like, I'm going to give the victory the other way just by default. You think vince had taken? Yeah, just because I can't see him, like I can't even imagine him being in a fight. Yes, some people like you're like, they're like, oh, someone's so good in a fight and it's some celebrity. Like, I like to see that. Right. There's somebody told me that Tom Hardy knocks him out of the night. Come on, be like, you're looking at him. I can't see that a little bit. You know, I, I don't, I give somebody said that that that that that happens with Axe Rose. I'm like, oh, you mean a security guard punch, somebody. Cool. Nice. Yes. Yes. What, what, what, what, you agree, you disagree? I, I'm not sure. I'm trying to think, you know, back in the day, I would definitely put save-ins with wind. Right. You know, I don't know. Why only view them back in the day, because, you know, after after their careers kind of end in my end, my brain, that's all they are. They don't engage. They don't die for legends. That's funny. I had a few, you know, when people, so let's, let's help people out on this. If you want your question answered, you've got to try to keep it to the actual post, because if you send a DM, they get lost. Oh, yeah. I mean, I got a couple of those, and I usually, because I'm only on this page when we're talking, I can't. Right. I know, they get lost. What, what about um, oh shit. I had a list of things that I was going to ask Dusty, and I, I had an asked Dusty list made up here on my phone. Okay, I'm still, here's my question for you Dusty. Yes. I still haven't bought a vehicle. And I've bought them like three since you started looking, but yeah. What, what's wrong with me? Why don't I care enough to pull the trigger on this? It's probably what's right with you. Like, if you, I mean, like here true, true story, this is coming from the dumbest person you know, who buys cars like some big deal. You drive like seven miles a day. Here's a fact. Well, the, the, the, the kilometers won't mean anything to you, but I only put 3,000 kilometers on my G-plus year, which is like, I don't know, with 1700 miles. Okay. So, yeah, you put, you put less miles on your Jeep. I have more miles on my truck. Like here, to give you an idea of how much I drive. I have 8,000 miles on my new truck. It had four of the day I bought it. So, if I'm you and straight up to, you don't have pristine weather. 1800 miles. That's how I, how much I drew a last year, 1800 miles. I have a really hard time telling you that's a good idea to spend any amount of money when you have number one because those who don't know, you don't drive a gelopy. You don't have an older Jeep, but it's not a piece of shit. It's not dinged up and got a huge dent in broken, you know what I mean? Ah, it's pretty clean. It's decent. It is, but if you drove around a ton, I could see like, well, you want to have something a little nicer. It'd be really hard for me to tell you, even if you had frivolous extra money, like put it down payment on another house. Right, right. You don't have to say it. And because you don't care. If you told me I didn't buy a bike, I started collecting or started collecting bicycles and I buy them and sell them. I'd be like, that's cool. That would make even more sense to me. Even if you were like, yeah, I built it nice all of the next day. But like, cool, you make it. Yeah, my tour box. Awesome. Hobby. Okay. Yeah, I don't, I don't, as much as I love to give you shit because I actually know your drive. I'm like, like, Ron probably has to have his gas removed from the tank because it's going to go bad and then they put new gas in. Well, I've got that old handy. So no, no gas gets removed. Even though I only drive 3000 kilometers a year, I still managed to sell you. You still have one, some month, as you're going to say. It's like every three weeks I fill up. It's still, it's still sucks. It sucks gas. I'll hear. Here's a question. Did you ever go through a phase? And I know the answer for you is probably no, but I have a story about this. Have you ever baked anything or cooked anything for other people because you were dieting and you couldn't enjoy yourself? Yes. Okay. Yeah. What's an example? Well, I've done multiple thanksgivings and Christmas's while in crap of some sort. So we've had full on meals that every on an eye have prepared that people can also prepare. Okay. There you go. Thanksgiving the whole thing. So yeah, I mean, I did, I did the bitch work. I'm not over there cooking too much. You're mash it at the house. But you know it's funny too, isn't it? And I know you're the same way. I like, I used to have clients when I was in prep and I'd send them like to have their cheat meal. Like, hey, semi pictures. It's a very important. Somebody food porn. I won't see this shit. It's gonna be porn. It's a food porn. Or I used to watch dinosaurs driving the dives doing cardio all the time. Yeah. And I think a lot of bodybuilders do. So same thing with cooking. Like, yeah. And if I make something good, I would absolutely. Like, if I knew how to make a hell of a cookie, I'd make a cookie as well. I was diving. Right. I remember my, I used to live with my best friend. We lived together like seven years. And he was always trying to gain weight. And I remember one year I was diving for a show. And he was really trying to gain weight. And so I would blend them up these crazy shakes. I could put ice cream and I throw a cookie in there. And I'd fucking blend them up these like gourmet. Did you ask him what, how is it? Oh, yeah. And then I'd like poured in. I, I, I, I remember I chilled a glass. I could put a glass in the freezer. You know what, the greatest or whatever. We were both bartenders, right? So we knew how to do it. So I poured them like a nice frothy shake. And I'd take it over and I go, hey, try that, try that. You know, I need to take a drink, but I go, he fuck, that's thick and sweet. I'd be like, yeah, yeah, yeah, it goes all that down, because I let it go. You see, you see, I said, you're getting off. I'm like, tell me about it. He had a hard time drinking. He'd be like, fuck, it's so filthy. He'd be like, go on, go on, go on. I'm standing there starving. This fucking, yeah, yeah, it gets you gaining weight. You're growing as I speak. You're growing as I speak. You are gaining a weight I'm losing. Fucking great. I got one more, but you gotta go first. I like just fire away. Do you need a still balancing act? Go. You know, mind, you know, mind. I had a good one here. Why, a couple. Okay. So someone asked me, they go, do you ever worry about your brand changing as you change and losing followers or interest in your accounts? And then they mentioned my biking. If you start posting biking stuff for you, worry that your bodybuilding followers are going to leave you. That's actually a great question. Um, I, here's what's funny. So I'm just talking from a fan stance with you. My answer is no. It would, if anything, because this is the connection, I'm actually working with the athletes from condemned labs on how to do this better. I like knowing what you do. I don't care that I don't do it. Um, and you are still a absolute voice in the sport. Like I cannot replace, I mean, there are very few people truthfully in the industry who are, who I can communicate with, that have your knowledge. You don't say in, because it's kind of like I have to do. You know, it's like if I look at a pseudo, right? I don't think Chris even goes to the gym anymore. You know, but as fascinated as I am with the bodybuilding side, I wish you would put more real estate stuff up. Right. Because that was one of the most fascinating things I learned about him when I worked with him was when I found out that he doesn't like do a little real estate. Like it's he owns a city more or less. Right. You know, and that was like, oh, and now of course you and I have both went to him for advice on building our portfolios and those things, you know, yeah. So now I don't, and I think also if you do lose people, you gain new ones, so it doesn't matter. Right. You know, plus I think the other thing for me, the final is, I mean, I always say I like the number my reach to be good because that creates a value for finances, but I have never in my life stopped and said if I'd post this, will I lose followers? Right. I don't give a shit. Yeah. If I want to put something up, I will, and it's the same thing with the way I do my personal life or the dogs or my truck. Like I don't care. Like this is what this is my page is what I want to do. If I want to post a picture of my truck every damn day, you might get bored of it and stuff following me. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So it's funny because it never crossed my mind until this person brought it up. Yeah, because that's how you think. I never thought like, oh, if I post this, this video, this bike video on my story, someone might, you might not like it right across my mind. Yeah. First of all, another thing dusty. How about this? How about I still, and I must be a generational thing? I still have an absolute disconnect between what I put on my Instagram and what I think the people in my life. Like whenever somebody from the gym goes, oh, I saw your video, or you saw your story or I saw your post. There's always like, oh, you did. Right. Like my real world life as one of the owners of West Coast that interacts with members. I forget that this world and my Instagram world all mix with that. Like I, I quite often I put stuff on Instagram and I think it just goes out and just go like out to see. Right. And then someone from the gym will be like, oh, sorry, video, and I'm always there. There's always like a little bit of like, oh, you did, but it's just funny. And sometimes I'm not one of those people that like, you know, how some people like they always check to see who saw their story and all that stuff. Right. I swear, I push that button like once a month. Yeah, because you'll ask me, multiple cages, you're like, I don't know if you saw my story on my guy's heart. Right. And I just we communicate back and forth. I do notice about the algorithm and stuff. If you opened it, you would know I saw it, because I'd be in the top little group of your people who saw it as we, because we message. Yeah. So you would see me up high by default. You know, I just don't check it. If you looked it, every time I'm only likes your picture, it'll always be in the top three little bubbles for you. You know what I mean? Yeah. Because I, because I'd go back and forth. So yeah, like, you don't register that way, but you know, it's crazy. The world really does. It's fun. I had a, I had a bad experience today. Good for me, but bad in general. I've been dealing with the cocks, the cable company here. Since I moved into this place, I've had issues with the bill. So finally, I got a call that I had an $800 bill. I was like, fuck it. I'm driving in. I just have to deal with this. I go in, calm. I said, look, dude, this is a train rack. Given the rundown. Right. Here's what I need. Okay. We'll see what we can do. It was what I get. Very nice guy. But it was very like, we'll see. He goes back to talk to the manager where when he comes out, a guy who had apparently just moved to town recognized me and deduced himself, oh, love your content, yada yada yada, then he walks away. He leaves. I told him about my gems, stuff like that. Then literally two minutes later, a girl walked over and asked for a picture. So took a picture. She leaves. Next thing I know, the manager's helping me and it's all handled. Right. And I'm like, what a fucked up world. So just because you, you know, they, you've realized there may be some sort of poll, some sort of negative action that might take place. Now you give a fuck about my problem. Whereas before it was wheel C, now it's you're not dealing with the sales associate anymore. Right. And I left. I text a friend of mine. I'm like, this is a fucked up world. Like, so what my mom would have been shitt on in the exact same scenario. Right. Interesting. So there is like, there is like, like you said that that off to see thing in your brain, the rest of the world doesn't see it that way. And I'm the same way, like I always call it the fake land because if I stop posting tomorrow in a week, no one will give a shit. Yeah. I mean that negatively and I appreciate it or the does, but that's just how life works. And that's that's cool. But you have to keep that in mind. And that's why people like you and I. It's like, let's put up what I want. The only thing I have to do is remember to put things up. Yeah, exactly. Because I think if I did actually know this, if it weren't for some form of business, I wouldn't have social media. I find there's a lot of headaches to come with it for people in their relationships and stuff. I'm like, I don't need that. I'll text around the picture myself. I wanted to see it. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. You know. Yeah. I remember I saw someone like, I don't know why this, I remember this, but the rock posted like a picture of as Tequila. Right. And someone commented like, we're not going to buy your fucking Tequila man, just post your normal shit. I've never just taken like, just people out there that take the time to write that. On first of all, the rock's going to post whatever the fucking wants. Secondly, he's always trying to make a buck. So, you know, that post that you liked. Yeah, he's wearing under armor head to toe and it did you notice the under armor? Yeah. Like, you know what I mean? Like, they just don't get it. They just don't get how it works. So some people are like that. They, some people don't want you to change. Right. They don't, they want you to fit perfectly into this convenience slot. Dusty Han Chau is a bodybuilding information source for me. He's not allowed to have an outside interest or, and if he posts about something else, I'm going to actually take the time to be irritated. I like when they tell you that they're they're unfollowing you. I'm like, yeah, you can just laugh. Okay. Yeah. You know, especially because I do find it funny like, so my video guy from last weekend is a Democrat and voted for Biden and he and I were given each other a shit all weekend. I was like, well, obviously we have to write this fucking mask. It's your country now. You know, like, just jabs and I were like, we were laughing because like, you imagine how seriously the rest of the world would take this conversation. I'm like, we don't give a fuck. Like, it's cool. He's wrong. I'm right. It's fine. But, he's not afraid. But you know what I mean? Like, like, I, I, I, I, I still text him today and we're still friends. And the rest of the world, you can't disagree on anything or like the, the RDS defleg that you sent me yesterday. I was laughing because I'm like, here, here, Rodin, I have a totally different version of what it means. So you should probably have just unfollowed me immediately. Right. It's almost like I. So I want to talk about that. You should throw this up now that I've brought it up blindly. So one thing that I think there's confusion on and it's just a linguistics issue is I use the term stiff flag deadlift for any hamstring dominant deadlift. That's just the, it's what comes out of my mouth. Right. It's what I say. Stretch position, hip extension with a barbell in your hands. Right. I call it a stiff leg dead. I always have, you know, like if you watch blood and guts to see Dorian do stiff leg dead on the platform, you know, he picks it up off the floor, but then he goes down like midshin and back up and it's very ham, glute dominant. Just a, just a hamstring dominant deadlift. But now there is, there's people that when I say stiff leg deadlift, they think I mean, like, with your legs, like, like fucking locked out. Right. And I'm like, no, no, no, no, there's a bit of a bend in there and you can move a little bit and it's about working the hamstring is a fine in your groove and, you know, there's, you know, but now R D L is the super popular thing. And I don't, I'm not sure who to blame for R D L. I kind of want to blame Jordan. I don't really remember anyone saying R D L. And I don't remember R D L being used a lot until like Jordan Peters was really getting big on the R D L's. And and I was just kind of watching it going, oh, that's just like a stiff leg deadlift, but he's kind of touching the floor. Right. That's all I saw it as, but then you had that question that really wanted to differentiate between the two and and I felt like, and I picked it by picture like, that's not what I, yeah, and then you were like, stiff leg deadlifts can be dangerous. And I was like, oh, so that, you know, you're talking about like lock in a leg. So I don't know. I don't know where I'm going with that. I don't know. There's no point, Tania, that I just want to just. It doesn't matter, but it's money because that, but that is back to what I say. Like, I could see in our world to be blark doing over that. And it's like, you know, you guys are greedy, right? Well, then that's all. That's almost a metaphor for like the last four years of politics. Right. A lot of like, just, you realize that on like 90% of issues you guys agree. Like, you know, just fight on all. You fight on 100% because the other guys wrong. Yeah. Yeah. You know, so, so yeah, I was a, you know, I use a term stiff leg deadlift, but I don't mean to lock your legs and do like a fucking perfectly straight leg and all that stuff. And just, you know, I feel like I'm misunderstood, dusty. You know, as far as I used like two years ago, I said French press. So talking to trainer and he looked at me. Got like the dog look where the head tilted. Yeah. That's like, it's a French. I think it's easy bars. I like, yeah, you're okay. So behind the neck, try some extension. He was, oh, yeah, that's like same shit. Yeah. Call it what you will. The thing where you put the arms up over your head there with their event. You good. There they go. We all good here. Did you love my extremely popular comment on your picture, but I asked if you were camping? I said, it was funny because I got so much that weekend I was so busy and I kept wanting to go back and say, clamping real quick. Oh, and else did. Yeah. Oh, did they? Yeah, something else. It's, I don't think. Yeah. I was, I was blown, you know, it's crazy. I've had a few post recently where like, you know, you ever noticed when you like you put some thought into something like it's kind of a heavy topic and people are like, like, and then I'm like, I like hot dogs. I get 700 comments. So that I've had that happen a few times recently where I'm like, I was going to answer those, but man, there's 150 comments. Yeah. The wedge hit one button. It says, thanks to everybody. You know, it's why I find myself by default doing what you're not supposed to do, which is only answering the assholes. And you're not interacting with the actual fans. People, well, the people who actually bring value to the page. Yeah, that what the toy that well, there actually helpful in doing something beneficial for me and for them. I've ditched them to talk shit to the asshole. And I'm like, damn it. Trick to get him by the dumb ass. Well, it's not the first time does he? No, I'm not a typical one to trick. So, let's be honest here. So, so we got, so next Sunday's Valentine's Day. What are you doing? You know, did you buy me something nice? No, I was just saying, you know, what's what's your Valentine's we can look like? I've always been I'm a person town. Oh, so we're probably wills in town. He's supposed to be hanging out with his wife. So he's going to train with us two days or also my videos are going to have a version of Leroy Davis. And make sure that you wear red and white. It's all red and white for Valentine's Day. That's some pink because I don't know. I like those pink. It was like, yeah, red, white and pink. Perfect. Valentine's Day. Red, white and pink. Yeah, I can do that. I would love for you to do it up. It's team effort. Everyone in the video. Yeah, I like to look sharp. You know it's truthfully all kidding aside. I've never said well, I shouldn't have never. I've never enjoyed celebrating Valentine's on Valentine's. We have always went a day before a day after because I get limited menus. Yeah, and bullshit crowds and waiting for tables and bullshit. Yeah. Now what I mean, I'm fortunate because I know some of people like I can get into, I get into a restaurant the day before Valentine's Day. No problem. But you go in and because they're moving tables, they're like, here's your menu. And that's seven things. I'm like, where's the normal menu? I come here all the time. Yeah, yeah, just let's just come on a Tuesday and we'll celebrate Valentine's Day. So literally that is always been my move. So every year no matter what the day is Valentine's Day, we don't do shit. And a couple days before after. That's so Emily's birthday is this week. So yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, 126 again, 26 again. So tomorrow I'm taking her to my buddy's got a really cool business, Mint smile bar, give him a little plug. What is that? We're getting our teeth, like super whitened and getting like moisture, facials and everything. It's gonna be like the fanciest Metro's most metro sexual thing I've ever done. Are you going to save your face before you? Well, you know, just trim around the, you're gonna make sure you trim back. You're gonna moisturize around the eyes and you know, I'm not getting any boat talks or anything. I said give me the non-surgical micro-hurn. And he's like, that doesn't exist. That's all surgery. And he's like, he's like, okay, it's my expensive creams involved that we can do that. We call it the Hollywood. And I was like give me the Hollywood. Hey, actually call it that. Yeah, yeah. So I'm getting the Hollywood. Hollywood on the face. The white and the teeth too. Yeah, they do the teeth. It's a smile bar. That's the mean thing. I have teeth are terrible. I don't know. You know, I just, yeah, I'm going to go for it. I like it. And does she know? Yeah, so she, she, she, she would, she's going to consider this, like a huge effort on my part. Oh, yeah, you're definitely scoring late points for sure. Yeah, she knows. I had to tell her my camera going to smile bar. We got a couple hours. Yeah, after you were jeans. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Jeans and my red checks. Do you see what's happening right there? No, I'm feeling it. That's prepared for like fancy. Yeah, jeans on. Yeah. Yeah. I know it's going to be an afternoon date. We're going to the smile bar together. Like couples do. We haven't done like a couple thing in a long, taller than the, you know, the whole, you know, which isn't couple. That's just our human human. Yeah, human. Okay. You know, fantastic smile bar. It's a very open smile bar. Yeah, I just stepped it for you. I just tried to run by it for those who. That's so funny. You know, it's funny is that when I send her text messages, I call it sometimes I'll text her. Okay. What time you home from the gym? And then I'll send this one and this one. Classic. No wonder she loves you. No wonder she loves you. Hey, what time are you done with clients? Bing. Hey, Ron, I have a question for you. Have you ever accidentally sent one of your clients a message that was family? Never mind. I know the answer. So go, go, go. You have to tell the story. There are two incidents. There are two times in my life when I have sent a text that was very clearly for Emily. Very, because you were requesting groceries. Got it. Got it. And yeah, it was a list of groceries that I was going to require later. Um, list of things I wanted in my mouth. Um, list of things I want later. Um, yeah, there were two times when I accidentally sent an Emily text to someone else. One time went to a, um, a very good female friend of mine that I've known for 20 years. Um, she was a sports. Well, she was not surprised that I would say such things. I'm pretty sure that she probably knew it wasn't for her before she got to the end. Like, she probably figured out this was, and then my, you said there was an end. Like, you drugged my paragraph three. She realized it was not for her. So what I'm going to do to tonight is first, I'm going to do it out of it. And then the dotted up and then maybe at the end, I'll fit in some of this. Yeah. Oh, and then the very next text like 30 seconds later is like obviously a mistake, not meant for you. Sorry about that one. Yeah, she just replied with like, oh, Ron, there's something, you know, and like a lot of good black face. Um, and then another time I, um, I, so I was sitting down. Oh, God, Dr. Tell this. Yes, I sitting down. And you know, sometimes you just have like a spontaneous erection, right? Like, like, you just, you just think to yourself, you're like, Gary, I am supposed to be doing some work, but I've got like a raging heart on. Right? It happens. It happens. And so I kind of gave it a flex. You know, and you flex it, flex it, you know. And it was like, it was like moving in my jeans. Right? I was making my jeans go up and down. So I videoed it. Oh, I'm supposed to do it. And it's so bad. It's moving in my jeans. And I was like, oh, look, look, and I was tired. I think I was talking like, oh, look, there's a you know, like, so just terrible. And then I like sent the video, but you know, when you're having like multiple conversations, like your clear and things up with clients, and then you take a minute to video your dick. And then you go back to and then I realized I sent the video to a client. And he or she was the receiver. I just immediately said, please do not open that. Of course, I assume they did, but there was a lot of laughter and suit. And it don't worry. Yeah. I got to be as if he sent that. Somebody said something that said, do that. But that I'd be like, we'll fucking out after. Yeah, there's no way in there. There's no way in you just hope the dust settles and everything's okay and life moves on. Right? I mean, listen, we can't really end the show on a better note than you videoing your penis through your jeans. So we've all done that. And talk to it during the process. Well, it's part of the video. You're trying to be funny. Right? You're like, oh, look who's away. You know, I can't remember. I, you know, it was, it's a little blurry. I tell the story with a bit of blur, but you know, my face hurts. That was, luckily, luckily, I found out through my fuck ups in life generally from beginning to end. That every time I fuck up and I have a little horrified, I realize that no one else is really surprised. Yeah, you've established how fucked up you are in general. And I would just kind of shock to you. Yeah, like it just kind of like is okay. And I'm like, wow. So I don't know if that's a good thing or bad thing to ask you, but here we are. We're still here. People are as far as I know still listening. I might have stopped during that conversation. Whatever. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. On that note, thanks everybody. So I think we should book a guess for next week. Deal. Because I've got one waiting off to do a send a text. We'll see if we can make it happen. So we'll talk about that right after we're done. Sounds good. Okay. We'll see you guys later. Remember everybody like, share, subscribe, comment, ring the bell. It's just bodybuilding.

Once you take that barrier away from the fact that you think you can't be that big. And I remember I used to have a friend who owned a body building clothing store. And I would go in there, he's like, you got to be 300 pounds. I'm like, 300 pounds. I have a cap, you get him to be going to get the 300 pounds. And I was like 260 at this point. And he's like, and I was already one of the bigger. You know, I was pretty big at 260. Yeah. He's like 300, 300. And, you know, in fact, the Dorian was like 300. I'm like, you know what, maybe I can do this. Because I was still growing. Like, once I started taking out a box and added GH in, it was just a matter of how much food I can get down my throat. And I was growing. You know, I was growing like a weed. And it was, it wasn't any magical drug combinations. You know, I was doing what I needed to do. And I was using real gear, obviously. But it wasn't excessive amounts. You know, I was using a thousand tests a week. I was doing like, you know, 400, 400 milligrams of that a box with it. I was taking three, four I used GH. You know, I was experimenting with some insulin, you know, so I'm like, humbling R and stuff like that. But, and you know what, I just, with the food and with the training, and I was getting really, I'm not strong by nature in terms of like, I'm not like, yeah, I see these guys, they're like 160 pounds. They go in, they can bench press like 405. Yeah. That's not me. But as like a bigger, I got stronger. So when I hit like 300, I was, you know, I was inclining, you know, 405 for reps. I was lifting impressive weights, you know, because I was just so big and I used really good form. So I was just growing like a weed. And you know, once you believe you can do it, you could achieve it. Hey, everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building. I'm big Ron Partlo of course. I'm here with Dusty Handshot and the producer Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and bring them. Yes, remember, I am mutant.com. Go to I am mutant.com. Get your ISO surge, get your all in and everyone should get on the gear. Oh, okay. Every single day. And today, we are extraordinarily happy to have with us body building legend. Dave Jumbo, Palombo, the original mass monster, RX muscle mastermind, the guy behind species. Probably I would say body buildings, number one journalist of all time. And the original podcaster has that day. Is that a good intro? I'll take that intro. That's a very good. I would say Dave, you're responsible for more 300 pound body builders than anyone in the history of body building. And I have to say I'm one of them. You influenced the shit out of me. I remember when I was body building and coming up in the early 90s and you were the biggest do it around. And every time there's a picture in the magazines, I'd stop and go, God, this guy from New York is just out of control. And it was it was it was quite the time to be alive and it was nothing but fun memory. So we're excited to have you, you know, so where you're on Long Island, right? Am I correct? No, I've been living in Florida. Oh, yeah, right. I was Florida. Sorry. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I gave up on the year. Everyone escaped. Everyone escaped. Well played. Yeah, like the movie escaped from New York. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Did you leave like before the hurricane or after? Which are on it? Oh, yeah. I wanted to hear somebody very depressing. I'll tell you something depressing. So in 2012, we had a hurricane Sandy in the New York and I had two houses on the water. So they both got flooded. I actually did very well in the insurance when it was all done. So I can't really complain. And that's thanks to Chris the Cito believer. And now, because Chris the Cito has this like insane insurance guy. He drove down from Maine this guy and he's like, I'm going to get your ton of money. You know, he bought the insurance company. And he did really well. So when I stole, that was 12. But I sold my house in 16 to move down the Florida. The housing market was still kind of low from the hurricanes. Because people were like, you know, gunshive, some of the markets. And you know, I had two houses on the water. I mean, the worth money, you know. I still made a few bucks on him. I didn't make as much as I probably should have. I looked the other day yesterday, man. I looked on Zilla at the house and I used to live there. No. I sold it for us. I bought it for like 390 or something like that. This was in like 2002. I sold it in 16 for like almost 500 like 490. Yeah. It's a million over a million now. I'm a million. Yeah. Now the taxes were going up in $2,000 every year. So the property taxes are ridiculous. They're over 20 grand. But the point is that, you know, it's everything's timing, right? And it goes that way in bodybuilding to it, right? If you show up at the right show on the right day at the right time, you might win. But if you show up, you can be impressed and show up at a show that has a lot of great guys that you might come and you know, eighth place. You know, right? Right. You know, like timing. It's funny. We had a list of stuff to ask you about. And one of the topics was just ask him about Chris Hasido. And it like the first 20 seconds dropped Chris Hasido in college. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean, we have to be talking about Chris all the time in the show. He is one of the smartest guys that you could have in your role, the Dex. Is it like, is he not a valuable source for almost anything? Yeah. Chris, Chris, for real estate stuff, he's phenomenal. The guy like he's, you know, how like I, I'm like in the animals and something like that, like I have like, you know, I have like breath tiles and I have birds and I have, you know, cats and, you know, he's like that would real estate. Like, like, like if I'm like chilling out, I'm looking at Instagram like animal pages. He's like looking at real estate, you know, like, you know, I'll show him a picture like, like, like, from, I took from like the 90s and can Florida. He'll be like, I know that condo that's behind you. He's not your rookie, the picture means. He's on the behind me. And he's like, I know that's so and so Collins Avenue in South Beach. I'm like, how the heck do you know that? He was like, I am, I was going to buy a condo in that building, you know? And so I made 200 grand on a unit in that one. Yeah. Yeah. He knows every Venice, I'll show a picture from Venice. And like, I used to live down the block for the, that's so and so street. It was half of the worth of million now. I'm like, you know, every, every time he messages me, he's like, how's property in Vancouver? Is it still just, is it still bubbling? Is it still bubbling? You know? So yeah, he's awesome. So yeah, let's, let's start. We got to start, get the, we got to get the OG stuff out of the way. Yeah. I got to, I, you got to touch on on these early days. What, what started the, you to, to, to, to drive to be a mass monster before the term was even used, right? Literally. You weren't saying I'm going to be a mass monster. You were just trying to get as big as possible. When did that, when did that all really start happening for you? You know, most people know I was a long distance runner in college. And the, the philosophy behind long distance running is the opposite of body building. It's get as small as possible. You know, run as, over-trained as much as possible. And, you know, the light of you are the faster you run. I mean, so when I, but I always, I had worked at high school and I kind of liked the way it looked. So when I kind of finished my college running career, I was like, you know, I, I, I, I want to look better, you know, at this point. You know, I'm like, I'm never going to get, I'm never going to get a date, you know, that kind of thing. I, I, I, I, I, I, I make that joke. But, you know, so I started working out. And I, and I, and you know, it's, when you're a runner, you have a little bit of an eating disorder. Every runner does. Okay, you, you, you don't want to carry fat. You know, you want to be fat. And it's funny because running long this is running. Is it really conducive to being super crazy, lean because, you, you, you're kind of, like, you're always on the verge of, of not eating enough. And you're, like, cacctic, a little bit looking. You're always looking like a little, you, over depleted. Right. You always think you're fat, but what it is, is just like loose skin type of thing. So when I started bodybuilding and eating a little bit more, I was like, oh, I look good. My skin tightened up, you know, I'm carved up. I'm not walking around the pleaded all the time. And I'm like, and I started eating more. And obviously, I start reading the magazines. And I'm like, start eating, you know, saying realizing protein is very important. So I'm eating more frequently during the day. And I'm growing, like, like, a weed. Naturally. I don't even know, even know what a steroid is at this point. And mostly because I'm putting back the weight that I probably had run off of my body, you know, for all those years, they're running. So I'm growing, growing around and saying at this point, I said, I got to a point where I was like, you know what, I don't know if I can get fat. So why don't I try to get fat by eating even more food? Because it seems like every time I eat more food, I get bigger. And then if I get fat, I can always cut back. So I got to a point where I was eating like six, seven times a day, which was a lot from the exact, I was eating twice a day before that, you know, as a runner. And I'm like, you know, it's calling me? Yes, so you know, you're kidding. His ears must be ringing. So I got to a point where I, you know, literally it didn't matter what I ate. I didn't get fat. And I realized, holy, macro, I have the only limitations I have to get in digger is how much can I eat? Now, I wish it would have continued like that naturally. But it went on for about two years like that, where I was growing, growing, growing. And then I kind of hit a plateau around to 15 or so. I couldn't get above that. Now remember, I was 150 pounds as a runner. So now like, I'm like 65 pounds, you know, bigger than I was. So people like what the, you know, everyone thought I was taking steroids. I didn't even know, I still didn't know it's steroids. At this point, I started getting into Bill Phillips. If you remember, he had been riding those animals. And he got his guides and then he made, you know, the black book. Yeah, but there was before the black book, it was like pamphlets that he would, like, it was off a copy machine they would send you. And I subscribed to it every month, he would send you this new thing. And that's where they first introduced metrics, shakes and Scott Connelly. And I was completely consumed with this information. I was a holy macro. This is the greatest information of all. And of course, once he's not reading Bill Phillips, and he was talking about an analogue, steroids, and I started reading about them, right? Because, you know, in my mind, I thought they were like poison, you know, because that's how the press, you know, portrays them. And now I'm learning the real science of it. You know, I'm a science guy. I'm premed. I'm getting ready to go to medical school at this point. I'm like, I'm completely, you know, holy macro. I just go and down the rabbit hole. You know, you know, you know, you know, you want to get on like Instagram or Facebook or or YouTube and you go down a rabbit hole, if something whatever topic you're looking into, it was like that. Except there was no computers back then. There was no internet. I was going down this rabbit hole of this, of this magazine that he was printing up in these books. And I was buying everything and reading it like 600 times, you know, to the point where I probably knew his anobog reference guy better than he did. And he wrote, you know, and so I knew more about steroids before I even took a steroid. And then I met a doctor in Westchester when I was up in medical school there who is, who actually ironically had graduated from the same medical school I did 20 years earlier and he was a bodybuilder and he got this guy doctor Mike. He was, he was a crazy, creative genius, you know, but he was, you know, he was, he had the mentality of like an emotional development of like a 12 year old. So but it was cool hanging out with him because we would run ideas by each other. And he's like, I asked him, I said, what do you think about taking steroids? He's like, why rather my kids take steroids and drink alcohol, he goes from a, from a toxicity standpoint, there's, there's way less toxicities. So he kind of got me into it. I did my first cycle and the rest is history, you know, as you know. So I, you know, if people don't realize you have well trained muscle and you're eating really well and you kind of know what you're doing training wise. When you take steroids, they work a lot better. You know, then the guys, today who are, you know, 18 or 16 years old God forbid, but let's say they're 18 and they say I'm going to start taking trend. I've done anything. I worked out for two weeks. I'm going to start taking trend. Yeah. So I want you to think. They don't, steroids don't work well on people like that because they don't have well trained muscle. They don't know how to eat right and they don't really have a train well. They just want to get big. So they do put muscle on it and it accelerates it right, but they kind of burn out their receptors. So the best bodybuilders were always the guys that trained naturally for the longest Sean road in Kai Green, Ronnie Coleman. Think about all these guys that were natural for so long. And then they started taking gear, you know, and it exploded with growth, you know. So, hey, before you go on Dave, I got to ask. So I've listened to all your stuff over the years. I don't think I've ever heard you say what was that first cycle? Yeah, I've kind of said it, but because I don't know if people believe it, but it was Prima, I had a friend. It's a good story. I had a friend who was, this was in, remember, 1990 was when Biden was not president, then it was a senator. Push through the steroid control act. Never forgave him. Yeah. Yeah. But he, the, the, the, the DEA didn't want to do it. They said, this is not, this is not a drug that should be controlled because it's not addictive. But they flushed it through anyway because of the Olympics and they had the barceloro Olympic coming up. So there was no, there was nothing around. Because everything that was, people used to go into the pharmacy here in the United States and, and with a regular prescription and fill a prescription for anovard, that go test whatever they wanted. And everyone was getting real stuff. So now all of a sudden, there was nothing. So I had a crazy friend who went to Barcelona and, because you can over the counter get like anything there and he would, he'd bottle this stuff and he'd brought it back and, you know, and so, you know, I was looking to do a cycle and, and I was talking to him in the gym and he's like, oh, I got all this stuff from Barcelona. So he had prima bone and went stroll and I figured, you know, my doctor friend said, these don't have any side effects. They don't really suppress your natural production very much. This is, you're not going to get water retention. You're not going to get an acne from this. I said, fine. So I did, I did 50 milligrams of went stroll at three times a week and I did, I think it was like two, literally 200 milligrams of prima bone away. Were they those Zambons? Zambon went strolls in three and a bunch. Yeah. And they had the prima bones with the sharing ones that were in the box. I think he paid like $1.50 for him. They, the 50s are the hundreds. They were the hundreds because Spain had the hundreds only Mexico made the difference. Yeah. I certainly, 90s guys know that. Yeah. Yeah. Because people don't realize there was no underground gear. Everything came from the pharmacy or what started happening at this time and bodybuilding was people were making counterfits. So what they would do is they would try to mimic the, they would take the sharing prima ball and they would try to copy it. Yeah. If you were like a good, a sleuth or a good like Sherlock Holmes investigating you, you could, you could figure out what they did wrong with it to see if it was fake. That's great with your nail. Yeah. They were, the giveaway was always the pamphlet that came with it because they couldn't, the people who fake they couldn't get the tissue paper pamphlets. So they were using like like regular copy paper and it would be too thick. And so you would know that was the, you know, or they would, you know, usually they stamped the expiration date on and they would print it on with the label with the same prints. So you could, you had to try to lick it off. It didn't, it didn't smudge, then you knew it was fake. So there was all these different things that, you know, that you could figure out. But so I didn't wish John Pramblev on for about, I think it was like 10 or 12 weeks. And I put on like 15 pounds of muscle like from this stuff. It was zero water. Zero water. And you know, I was, you know how we and I am already. My veins were like popping out like crazy. People thought I gained like like 50 pounds, you know. But I was really only 50 men. But it looked good on me because I had no body fat, you know, and it was pure muscle gain, you know. And so and you're pumped more pumped, obviously when you take antibiotics. And so I was like, whoa, but you know, then you get scared. I'm like, oh, I got to go off cycle now. And the funny thing is I, I really didn't lose anything off cycle because, you know, you get a little deflated. But you know, when you don't have body fat, you don't really notice that much. And then I did another, I think the next cycle I did was like some DACA and some, I think did some DACA and some. I did that more, more prima-bone. And I was using all the stuff that was coming from like, you know, from Marsalon at that time, from Spain. And I didn't do my, I remember it. Took them back another year before I did like my first test of ostrich shot. And the first shot of sister, I've said, told the story, first shot of sister, and I took, I had a guy that were already. I had a feeling. Not at all. I was like, one shot, the next day I had it. So I must have had the tissue there already. And they blew up. I lost my mind. I, my friend from the gym, the guy who was the Barcelona, he knew a doctor in white planes because I was living in Westchester. And that's when I met Dr. Blaud, the guy I was who I've been advocating, who's been, who's done more in gynecromascia surgery for, for more top body bills and anyone else in our industry's done like thousands of thousands of them. I said to everyone. And it was all because of that one, you know, that one encounter there. Oh, I do. That's the worst. Guy know from one sister-in-one. I was so Trump, I didn't want to take my shirt off. That's how Trump is. Yeah. I took like a million bottles of sustenance. I never got any guy. I don't hear. You know, but I always say there are women that have big boobs and there's movement that have small boobs. Well, they've meant we have the same genetics. It's just a matter of, we don't know it because unless you take something that's going to stimulate those glands to grow, you would never know if you're, if, you know, what kind of boob it's you have. So you would have made a hot chick. He would have killed a man. He would have killed a man. He would have killed a man. He would have killed a man. I'd go away with it. Oh, man. So when did you, when did you start thinking like, I'm going to be 300 pounds. I'm going to be a 300 pound, like I'm going to push this. Before I tell you mine, like when you guys were coming up like, what, like, they had to be someone in like Hollywood that you said I want to look like, right? Oh, yeah. Yeah. I mean, I started with Arnold and pro wrestling. I call it to me warrior and Arnold movies, right? I mean, I was a ladies kid. Yeah. What about you? Mine were more, because I loved all the, so I had like, man, in my eyes, Van Dam was huge, follow young from those like those guys were all over the ass. You had the packs. I'm like, I got to be that guy. It wasn't until later that you realized like, oh, there's another level of both that. Yeah. I'd say Arnold. I saw, I saw pumping our nose a kid and I was like, oh, man. And then after that it was Lee Haney. Like, Lee Haney was around when I was a little kid and everybody told me like, oh, yeah, he's the man way, till he turns around, look at his back. I was like, yeah, one day I want to get that never reached it. Never reached it. You're close. That's, I'm actually, that's pretty admirable that you're admit that because I, I, I think because everything with me is, can I achieve it? So I thought that those guys were too big. So I always say, I don't want to look like that. Those guys are too big. I want to look like Stallone in round up. Yeah. I had bands around my head. I go, I go to my friends that I would go play paintball. You know, and I thought I was new because I had a couple of veins going through my arm, you know, and I thought I was rambo. But then, you know, then when you achieve the rambo size, you're like, I'd like to get a little big in this, you know, maybe, you know, who's next up, you know, and then you, you think about who's the next guy is. Then you start thinking about like, you know, the wrestlers and stuff like that. Then it became like Arnold and then, you know, and then it got when I realized that actually had, I was actually putting on muscle and had pretty big legs, you know, just genetically. I said, you know, I want to do this bodybuilding thing. I did a natural show. Some band-a-way beat me in the overall, and I was like, and I was natural, really, for the show and I was like, you know, this is bullshit. I'm just going to, I'm not going to, I can't play in these small playgrounds. I'm just going to, if I'm going to do it, let's just do it, you know. Yeah. I did my first show, like, I think I was like, 198 or the first show I did was like 160, but I only been training eight weeks, eight months. The second show I did, which was the last natural show I did, but I was like about 198, 200 pounds. And so then when I finally started taking drugs and I said, all right, I'm going to do it the right way. I waited two years and I competed and I was 228, so I gained another 28 pounds of muscle. Nice. So I don't know, I was, I think I was 215 first, then I would then, but I was gay. But I was gaining about 10 to 12 pounds a year, you know, at this point, and with the antibiotics. And then the biggest year I had was the jump from 95, from 94 to 95, I gained 30 pounds of muscle, 28 pounds of muscle one year. But, but so it's going to get back to your question, Doryan, I saw Doryan in 92 at the Atlantic State's guest pose. And this was 92 and 93, 93 before you did that Olympia, we was insane. Yeah, right. That was your best ever. Because it pitched on the ball of beds. Yes, that was awesome. It's 190. He walked out. I never know what had seen a human being whoever looked like this before. It was like, oh my god. Holy back there. And I said, you know what, if he can get that big, because I didn't think he was like a genetic freak. Like I didn't think like, you know, you look at like, hey, any or like flex wheeler, you know, you can't look like that, right? But I said, Doryan, I say, you know what, he's a white guy, you know, he's not, he doesn't have anything really. He's just big, you know, I'm like, I could do that, you know. He gave, once you take that barrier away from the fact that you think you can't be that big. And I remember him, I used to have a friend who owned a bodybuilding clothing store. And I would go in there, he's like, you got to be 300 pounds. I'm like, I can't, 300 pounds. I thought, I can't be, you got to get the 300 pounds. And I was like 260 at this point. And he's like, and I was already, you know, one of the bigger, you know, it was pretty big. It's 260. Yeah. He's like 300, 300. And, you know, in fact, the Doryan was like 300, I'm like, you know what, maybe I can do that. Maybe I can do this. Because I was still growing. Like, once I started taking out a box and added GHN, it was just a matter of how much food I can get down my throat. And I was growing, you know, I was growing like a weed. And it was, it wasn't any magical drug combinations. You know, I was doing what I needed to do. And I was using real gear, obviously. But it wasn't excessive amounts. You know, I was using a thousand tests a week. I was doing like, you know, 400 milligrams of that box with it. I was taking three, four, I used GH, you know, I was experimenting with some insulin. You know, some like, humulin' r and stuff like that. But 10 IU postwork out. Yeah. Yeah. It's like something like that. And then the morning it was a 10 IU. And, you know what? I just, with the food and with the training. And I was, I was getting really, I'm not strong by nature in terms of like, I'm not, like, yeah, I see these guys, they're like 160 pounds. They go in, they can bench press like 405. Yeah. That's not me. But as like a bigger, I got stronger. So when I hit like 300, I was, you know, I was inclining, you know, 405. I was lifting impressive weights, you know, because I was just so big. And I used really good form. So I was just growing like a weed. And, you know, once you believe you can do it, you could achieve it. Now, obviously, they could have been a million variables that could have stopped me. I couldn't got hurt. Luckily, I never got hurt. Seriously, I set my life up so that it was basically based around bodybuilding. My job was bodybuilding. At this point, I was making money for a minute. I was writing for some magazines and writing for a couple of these early websites. I was doing guests, you know, appearances. I got lucky metrics gave me a contract. I could scot Connelly like me. I was making 50 grand a year from them, you know, for a minute. For a minute. For a minute. Yeah. I was a lot of money back in the 90s, you know. You were doing better than almost all the pros. Yeah. I mean, I run, Ronnie, Ronnie and I worked for metrics. That's how I met Ronnie. Ronnie was making 35,000 a year. And I was making 50. Wow. The, the, and Ronnie went, it was complaining about it too. He told me he was going to go complain to Connelly. He said, you got a full-time job as a copy. He goes, you know, you know. No. But it was really a complete slap in the face for Ronnie Connelly. Right? But they thought I was more marketable for them. They were making more money off of, you know, John Boeple, one bow, you know. So, but, you know, it was, it was, like I said, it was the right place at the right time. And it's all about timing. And I, and I just lived the passion that I had. And I, you know, I didn't think about anything else. I said, look, that's all I care about. I'm going to give 100% to this. There was no excuses. I didn't miss meals. I didn't miss workouts. I didn't miss sleep at night. You know, I, I sacrificed everything to try to be the best that I could be. You know, and I, and I think at the end of the day, I think I took it as far as I can go with it. And that's why I, people, I say, oh, you ever want to make a comeback. I'm like, no, I, because I really have no regrets. I really didn't, you know, leave anything on the table. I kind of went as far as I can go with it. Yeah. I have to tell you, I know I've told the story before. I've talked about you many times, Dave. Yeah. But, but I, I have to just tell you this, my memory of meeting you for the first time. And I know you've met tens of thousands of body builders. Yeah. Like I was, but it was a 2002 Olympia. Yeah. And you were one of the guys like I was on the message boards and you were huge to 85 that whole. Right. You know, you were the king. You were the king of the message boards. Like Dave said so. And that's, that was, oh, okay. That's how it is, right? And I was like, I got to go meet Dave Plumbo. And so I message you and you were like, well, I'll be at the booth. I don't remember what booth you were at. Was it metrics 2002? I don't know. Yeah. What have been, like, muscular, I don't know. I don't remember. M.D. was a, no, it wasn't M.D. I probably some company paid me the best. Yeah. Yeah. You're at the booth and, and you, you, you, you told me where to meet you. So I was at the Mandalay Bay, right? So I go right there and I go to the expo. And I walk in and you're standing at the booth in a stringer. And shorts. And you're at your, like, you are just exploding ridiculous covered in vastularity, just complete absolute monster. And I was a big kid. Like, I was probably like, two 90 or something, right? I don't know if it's in. And, and so I come in maybe 275 or so, I don't know. But I come up to you and I'm like, oh, I'm rep 300 from the board and we, you know, Chad, and you were eating McDonald's. I was a dude. Imagine imagine. Yeah. And there was like an empty McDonald's bag. And there was like a few fries left. And you were like, put in the fries in your mouth. And we were chatting. And then, and then we chatter for a while and you go, hey, man, I'm going to take a break. Do you want to go eat? And I said, sure. So we, we walked out into the food court at the Mandalay Bay and we went to McDonald's. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And so I like comic dollars and you got McDonald's and we sat on an eight. We talked about, like, you know, blah, blah, blah, this body building and stuff. And I was just like, I just thought it was a craziest thing. I was like, man, he baked Donald's twice in a row because I always had that. I was, I was like, I got a rule in a fast food once a day, maybe. Right? Right? I was like, Dave's doing burning too many calories standing at that booth. Yeah. Yeah. I'm like, yeah. Back to backers. Back to backers. I'm like, this is how you get huge. And you were talking about the a rackadonic acid in the beef. Right? Oh, I was at the McDonald's. It was like a cross to street from the Mandalay Bay. No, it was like in the man, it was a, I'm sure it was in the locker. It was in the locker. I was in the locker hotel. They were located in the locker. Yeah. We watched for a while. I would say, I would stay at the locker during those time periods. When it was at the Mandalay Bay. Like everyone else is at Mandalay Bay. Yeah. Why are you staying next door at the locker? Donald's. I'd say because the McDonald's is in the food court. Yeah. Yeah. We walked, we took a walk. I can't remember it. But we ain't McDonald's. Yeah. We're probably walking through this like a connecting car. Yeah. Yeah. It's a car man. Yeah. Crazy. It's crazy. It's crazy. It's saying, but just the fact that you like had just finished a bag of McDonald's. Yeah. You didn't know it. I just never forget that. I always tell people, you know what, when you, it doesn't matter if you're eating a meal right now. You have to be thinking about what your next meal is, especially if you're on the road. You're not in your normal natural environment where you can access food. I was always thinking about what the next meal is. Where am I going to get it? What am I? It's just the meal. Didn't matter if I was at a booth all day. I would not miss eating and I, and you have to have that mental. That's why I loved with Nick Walker was interviewed once he said, I haven't missed the meal in five years. You know, you have to have that mentality if you want to be huge because your body, you miss one meal a week and that could be your progress for the whole week. That's just 72 meals. Yeah. Yeah. Yep. But I'm saying that one meal that you missed can kill the whole week's worth of progress. You may go, one meal. Yeah. And people miss meals all the time. Oh yeah. All my aunt stopped by the house. I couldn't eat. My nose was stuffed up and I was trying to blow my nose and I was trying to, time passed. I remember this my meal. Well, guess what? You're muscled for the week that you were going to eat. Yeah. I remember you saying, like, well, it doesn't matter. There's no limit to calories because I'm standing at the booth. You're right. True. Because I mind the tables was like a blast furnace. You knew Greg Cova, she was like the same way. She was like, the sweating that you would do with those boots. I was with Greg as well. Yeah. You sweat so many calories just standing there all day that you didn't, you could eat anything. I could have just poured ice cream down my throat and went to the matted. I would have been cinderated right in my body. I mean, that's how fast my metabolism's going. And when you have that much muscle, you know, if you have a good metabolism on top of that, it's like even more so. It took you cannot eat enough food. So you have to eat denser foods because if you don't eat like these, these shitty or foods like that have a lot of fats in them, it goes through to like if I ate it, if I would have eaten like tuna and rice, it would have lasted my body like 20 minutes and I would have been starving already. So I hadn't eaten these dense foods just to hold me over, you know, that's that. Yeah. Now, what about you were also trained a lot like Dory and two, like you're similar training style to Dory and right? Like hard sets at count, limit your volume, that sort of thing. And that's, that's, I think that's what you're doing at your biggest anyways. Yeah, you know, I do that. I still train that way, you know, and it's funny because I used to train with these guys that were like over trainers, like they would do like, you know, 25 sets per body part. And then at the end of the work, they run around and do like another five to ten sets and I'm like, aren't we done? I'm like, I was shot after like 50 and it's not that I can go forever, you know, if you tell me we're going to train for six hours straight, I'll go six hours straight. Yeah. But my body doesn't recover from it. In other words, it doesn't. Like some guys might get some benefits out of that. I get negative's out of it. So I realized very early on when I started reading the articles about Dory and in a men's or talking about lower volume, giving your body more rest and recovery because I was a chronic overtrain from running. You know, that's just the mentality. You never take a day off and that kind of stuff. So the, the more I reduced the volume, the better my results got. I was growing better. You know what? Then they thought about it and I said, well, you know, what set really is going to make you guys make you grow the most? It's going to be the heavy set, right? You get a, you know, four to six reps on with full range of motion. That's the set you're growing from. So the whole strategy of your workout is should be geared around that one set when you think about it, right? So if I'm doing chest and I want to build, you know, a bigger upper chest and I'm doing like a, a mild incline barbell press, the heavy a set of that where I'm going to get full range of motion and get a, you know, good form on that is going to be where I'm going to grow from. So it's everything in the chest workout should be geared around maximizing that set. That means I want to rest between sets. I don't want to go too fast because I'm not going to be able to lift this heavy. I don't want to do too much volume because if you do too much volume leaning up to that. Guess what, you know, you're going to sacrifice health strong, you are because you're going to delete too much glycogen. So you want to get to that set as quickly as possible without getting hurt, of course. So you got to warm up. So I might do, you know, 135, 225, you know, 315 and 405, but 405 then I'm going to push, you know, I'm going to push. I'm going to have my training partner maybe help me get a few extra. I might do a strip set with that. And after that set, I should want to go home and usually do. But then I'll go and I'll do maybe some dumbbell presses, you know, one or two sets. And then I'll do a one or two sets of flies and I'm shot. I'm going, I'm going home. I'm done. And you know what, the only set that really mattered was that heavy inclined barbell set. That's the set that built the muscle. That's the set you kind of logged in your head. But most people never even get to that set. They're so busy doing all the polymerty stuff that they're doing 25 sets of preliminary stuff. They never have a really heavy intent set during the whole workout because they're so worried about getting all that volume done. So if you just cut the volume back and focus on what's building the muscle the most, now, it's worrying and men's are took it down to a level where they said, you'll need one set. You don't even need to do any more than that because that's the mentality. But you know, the bottom, the reality of is that you know and can generate enough just doing one set like that. It's very hard, very hard. And it leaves you open to injury too sometimes, I think, because you're almost trying too hard in that one set. So like I would do one intent set for like incline barbell, one intent set for like incline dumbbell presses, one intent set for maybe flies. You know, and that's how I kind of spread it out a little bit more than what the way they did it. I'm doing a little more volume. And you know what, I'm still spending an hour in the gym because I got a resting a lot between sets because I want to make sure I can lift the most. There's no reason to rush through a workout when you try to lift this heavy as possible. And also if you don't have a spotter training partner with you, there's no way you're going to be able to push hard because you, you'll never be able to do it. I could never get under a squat bar if I didn't have someone spotting me and I'm doing 600. I'm not getting under a 405 in the bench if I don't have a spotter that I trust. So you gotta have a good training partner in order to train like that as well. Right. Is there anything you look back on, you know, if you were doing it again, you know, the total time machine question, is there anything you would change about, you know, your drug protocol or, or how you got ready for shows or anything like that, you know, because you know, we have learned a bunch. Yeah. We've also reinforced a bunch of what you're doing with what we know and, is there anything you change? God health. I didn't know anything about it. I learned more toward the end of my career about God health, but, um, didn't know about fiber. Obviously, I have, like, the best, the number one selling fiber, self and fiber, I was ever going to use fiber. But yeah, and, you know, and no one knew about the God health. And so we just, we, we were eating like enormous amounts of food and, you know, you know, we thought because we went to the bathroom three times a day that we were getting rid of all the way, so we really weren't, you know, if I'm eating 12 times a day and I'm only going to the bathroom three times a day, I'm certainly retaining a lot of stuff in my gut and not good for the gut number one, not good for stretching out that abdomen. I had that, obviously you get the distension going on. And so I didn't know anything about God health. I wish I knew what I know now about God health and I wish I knew now what I knew about insulin. I was experimenting with insulin, which was better than when everyone else is doing, but I didn't have a grasp of the whole concept. We didn't have blood sugar monitors because they weren't like available for 10 bucks at Walmart, you know, like they are now. And if I would have known then I would have probably been on a long acting insulin, you know, probably that my whole career because when you eat that enormous amount of food and you're taking GH, most guys run high fasting blood sugars, I couldn't even tell who the heck knows what my blood sugar was because I never tested it. So yeah, I'm sure I were running high fasting sugars. I was trying wasn't absorbing all my food. So what I was doing is I was taking humillin R twice a day to try to compensate for the fact that I wasn't absorbing my food. But it really wasn't what I needed was a long acting insulin. That's what a lot of these body bills to have most of these guys taking long acting insulin, that they're running high fasting sugars. And they noticed they absorbed their food better, they look better, their blood work is better. So fiber, gut health, probiotic type stuff, and proper blood sugar control, I think is something that I would do better. And you know what, I don't even know if my blood pressure was higher, not because I never checked it either. So I probably wouldn't have been there. But you're still here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I probably would have taken like a blood pressure medication like a round of a pro or an acin, some kind of sort of acin inhibitor, just as a pro pro, for lactic lead, especially at 315 pounds, you know. So yeah. Yeah. So what about what inspired you to start our ax muscle after your time at MD? Well, ironically, I actually, there was a guy who approached me in the late 90s. He wanted to start another hardcore body building that. Like kind of like a bill, Bill Phillips had sold muscle meat. He wanted to start a magazine like that. And he had, he was a drug deal with this guy, sold steroids. And he had money. And so he figured I'm going to hire like all these guys. He cranked tightest scammed him for some money and a couple of them butt top body balls. And he did mean, and I'm like, you know, what, you know, what, you know, what, how you're going to do this? Do you have a, you know, as a torial staff, do you have this? You know, because I'm like, you know, when I think I don't just try to get people's money, I want to make it successful because I'm like, I'm like an or go or you have to die. I'm like a results guy, you know. And he didn't know what the freak he was doing. I saw this and I'll, I'll run the magazine for you. I, I like the idea. If you're going to pay me and you're going to do this and that. So we started off doing it and I see get rid of these guys that are just sucking you drive from money. We don't need them. We need guys who can write and who, you know, I've knowledge. So I started contacting, you know, all my friends, you know, Jimmy Quinn at the time. And then, and then, all my hardcore guys I knew. And I said, we're going to put out an issue. And then this guy realized this thing was going to be a little more expensive than he thought. And I don't know if he wasn't, see, he's like, you know, I feel bad that I kind of sucked you into this. He goes, how about I just give you this, you know, since I didn't pay you anything, I'll just give you the magazine. You can just take it. He had the website or our ex muscle.com and it was all his idea. I didn't make it. I didn't write that. It was, you know, he had put together the original name. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, well, he was, his, his, it was, It was our ex muscle that you're a prescription for hardcore muscle. Yeah, that was his, yeah. I thought it was, it was good marketing. I liked the idea. So I started doing, I said, fine, that, that sounds fair. So I took it. He signed everything over to me. I started doing it. And we came out with a few issues in the early, you know, 2000s. And then black men saw that I was doing that. And he bought the title from his brothers of Muscle Development. And he wanted to switch it from all natural, which was to like, back to hardcore. So he's like, would you write for me? I said, yeah, sure, no problem. So I still was doing the arts. Muscle I was writing a calm, anabolic freak for him. And they read every single one of those. Yeah. Thank you. And then we got to a point. Then I did the whole jail thing went. Oh, down. I was in the six months in prison in O.5. And when I got out, Steve realized, you know, I was going to all the shows. And I was putting pictures from the shows on my website. My daypalommer.com website. So I was dating that girl, Khaled at the time, Khaled did websites. And she built the website. So I would just put all the pictures. And I was going to every show, you know, just because I had clients in there, and just to hang out. And so everyone was going to my website, checking out all the pictures. So Steve realized he was, why don't we just, he was, I want to launch a website for muscled development. He goes, now that you're not competing anymore, you want to hire you full time. So you hired me full time as the editor in chief. We launched muscled development digital as he called it at the time. Yeah. And you know, that's, I kind of just felt my way. You know, we kind of bluffed that way through it. We didn't know what we were doing. I didn't know what I was doing. But I just had some creative ideas. And I knew at least Steve would financially back those ideas. The only idea that he never backed was I wanted to start a TV show. And then I went with the one TV. It was impossible to do it. It was like TV was for TV. And you know, we were just doing podcasts at that time. Like audio podcasts. And I remember we had a pay. Every podcast we did was like 200 bucks. It was like to this company voice American. We had a call in there. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's a little, that little Django voice American. Yeah. Yeah. We got to build a studio in the office. I said, and we got to make a TV studio. And he wouldn't do it. He wouldn't do it. And then we started having some creative issues. He wanted to buy into species nutrition. And I didn't want him as a partner because, you know, I didn't really like his business practices. Even though we probably would have made money, I just thought it was going to ruin our relationship. I kind of liked, Steven, I got along really well. And his family convinced him that we were like, It's a reminder when I was trying to steal the business from them. But where they got this idea, because we had how we would have done it. I have no idea. But so he fires us. And then I said, you know, I didn't know what John and I. I'm like, what do we get to do now? He's like, I said, you know, I have this magazine, Arx Muscle. I haven't really used it because once Steve hired me full time, he said you can't do the other thing too. So I kind of just had it on the backboard. I said, but I still own the website. So within a week, we had the, the RxMuscle.com up and running. We did our first podcast like the next week. And two advertisers fall this over. And so we nice. I remember the big kuffuffle with you guys fired for M.D. And then within a week, there was a new podcast. Because you know, I will not fail. If there's one thing in life, I will not, when the chips are down, I will not fail. You can don't. You want me in the lifeboat with you. You know, when the, when the ship is sinking, you want me in that lifeboat, because I will not die. You know, I will do anything to stay alive. Not only that, not only that. I remember not only did you guys have a new podcast. I was right around that time. Within a few weeks, I think that you guys were, you, you species was at the Arnold. And you guys are there. I would get to have a booth anyway. Also, I contacted the Arnold people and said, Hey, look, you know, John and I used to work from Muscle 12. And as you know, but we have our own thing called RxMuscle. Now, um, would you give us press passes? And they, they love the idea. They, they, they open the, they open the door. And they said, get ahead. And I had my staff, my species crew run the species. But I stopped by there. So we had that and I was running around with John, videoing people for RxMuscle. And we, we, we like, you know, we, we, I don't know. We, I don't even know how we made it happen. It was, it was, it was meant to be, obviously. And I believe everything in life happens for a reason. Um, and then John, I got John the move to New York for a little while. I think he was living there for like almost a year. And he built our studio, our first TV studio. And I ran into these guys in the store who would do a TV, and they're like, oh, I, I don't, you know, I talked to anyone. They're like, oh, we do TV. We're doing fledgling to you. I'm like, TV for a lot. You think, well, we're, we're trying to do like, like, stuff for the internet. I'm like, that's what I'm looking for. I said, I need a TV guy. And so these guys started, they, it turned out they didn't work out for me because they were really weren't hard workers, but they got my brain working in the right direction. Yeah. I don't know if the camera's up. They set up the lighting for me in my studio. John built the studio. And the rest was history, really. I mean, it, you know, Steve's problem is he said, there's no business model for a TV. I said, well, we'll, let's, let's create the business model. Right. Um, because I said, that's going to be the future. I just see, I hate to say it, and then you love the magazines, and I do too, but these things are going to be gone. No one's going to read these things in five years. I said, anymore, and if you don't have a, a strong internet presence, you're going to go out of business. And he didn't want to listen to me and look, look, look, look, Warriors now. He's at a business. Man. So body building media today, I mean, you know, with the social media, it's very click-driven and the click-bait, and a lot of that type of stuff. How do you balance entertainment, if you want to call that with, with, you know, real journalism, and, and keep you being like legitimate? You know, what's, you know, it's great, what's terrible, what's terrible about YouTube. And let's say, so we all are new too, because YouTube lets you monetize videos, and that's a source of income. See, don't have to worry about advertisers, really. Although I have advertisers, and I have the monetization from YouTube, which I'm lucky that I have both. But at the end of the day, it's about YouTube, and monetizing any people to click right at, like you said on your, on your TV show or whatever you're doing. The best channels are the, the most niche, meaning that the more focused you are on what you do, the better you're going to be. Like, take that Nick strength and power guy for instance. He does the same thing every single time, every day, right? It's just a recap of what everyone else is doing. It's been doing a few years, but that's only does. And so people know, when they go to his channel, that's what they're going to get a review of whatever's going on in the bodybuilding world. I don't know, he's, he's not as popular as he used to be, but he still does very well, you know, and he can, he'll make a living from that forever, probably. If I had to do that every day, I would blow my brains out. It's true. Human being is good warring. I need, when I go to a channel, I want different programming on the, I want to be like a TV station. I don't want to be a channel. I want to be a station, meaning that one day we're doing, I'm answering questions on ass day, one day I'm doing heavy muscle radio, one day I have the lunatics and we're doing the whack-pack show, the after hours. Another day I'm doing a podcast with Romano, and then I'm doing rants. If something's bothering me or I see something in the industry that I think is nuts, I'm going to do a rant on it. If there's a show and I want to do an update or I want to do a, you know, a prediction show. If I'm at the Olympia and I want to, you know, do a wrap up or, or interview with a winner, I want everything. I want to be ESPN for bodybuilding. That's what Arx muscles always been. Unfortunately, YouTube doesn't reward that. They actually, they actually ding that because the advertisers don't really know what you're putting out. Every day it's something different. Even though I have a schedule that's pretty regular, it's not one thing on that channel. And that's what, but that's, that's the reason why I've been doing it for 15, you know, almost 18 years now. We have to count on muscle development because if I'm not diversified in my brain, then I'll get bored and I won't want to do anything. So it's hard to do the same exact thing every day. It's hard enough to put it content up every single day. We do that. We've been doing that for, you know, 15 plus years now. That's how you be successful on YouTube and on on social media. Regularity. It's sometimes your content is important is the regularity of what you're doing. Because I can put out a great, great show. Once that shows done and everyone's watching, they want to know what I'm going to do next. And a lot of guys spend so much effort into one thing. And then they, it's like, they have nothing left to do. They, they'll take them two weeks to put another piece of content up. You can't do that. You got to be thinking every day. One of my putting up next. Yeah. Yeah, that's a no, well, we do a show every Monday, even if we have absolutely nothing to say. You know, if you miss a Monday, you know, I've missed one heavy muscle radio show in 15 years. We did miss one week. Never. Ever. I was in the hospital open heart surgery. I did show that. I remember that. You have to because if you miss one show, people think, up the shows over. I'm going to play self-defying. Yeah. Watch it. No, soon. Right. Well, we also wanted to talk about what's going on now. Today's bodybuilding scene now. We actually intended to lead with the Pittsburgh pro. I don't know why we did this whole retrospective thing. But why would it be great? Yeah, yeah, yeah. But yeah, we got it. We want to get to that because I mean, that's looming very, very soon here. And we want to ask you what you think of this lineup. What do you think is going to happen at this show from the pictures you've seen? And I know you've got a lot of insider, Loki, probably seen some phones held in front of your face. Maybe, maybe Chris is saying, is a photo is it dusty and I haven't even seen it? I don't know. But I know I get the odd photo from Chris. And then you know, so what's your take on this Pittsburgh? I want to turn this around and you guys for one minute. I want to ask you a question and I'll answer that question. Yeah. I think this is, is we're entering a new like golden era of bodybuilding. And I'm going to tell you why because there's money available now. Right. The league is 600 grand. The Arnold's giving 500 grand. Pittsburgh's giving 100 grand. Beta and Dubai's giving 140,000. And we're going to start seeing these numbers going up and up because everyone's competing with each other now, right? Which is good. It's good for the bodybuilding. Oh yeah. It might not be good for the promoted, but good for the bodybuilding. And that needs more excitement. So these lineups are getting stacked now. All these lineups. We're not just seeing a limpia lineups. We're seeing a limpia lineups in regular shows now because there's a lot of money at stake. Yep. And I think that we're going to start to see a lot more talent entering into bodybuilding now. Because I think, look, when you play football, you get your head basting. You know, if you're doing MMA, you're making money, but you're getting your head basting. Yeah. Let's face it. Bodybuilding is a non-contact sport. The reason why you never get these top top athletes doing it is because none of them money in it. But if you, if an athlete thinks I can make a million dollars a year, you know, or two million dollars a year, if I'm at the top of the bodybuilding world, you know, for no contact, your longevity is much better in bodybuilding. It's kind of fun. You might, I think we're going to see a lot better athletes entering into the bodybuilding arena rather people think people moving away. I think people moving into bodybuilding because of the prize money. I wanted to get your opinion on that. What did you guys think? Definitely will draw the guys who know like there's guys who know they have pretty good genetics. You know, the people that have been athlete for years and people tell them, man, you know, we all see those NFL guys that look like bodybuilders. You know, those guys, they step on the gas and do what they got to do, train the way they got to train. And I mean, the gene pool, we're going to see more vertical on sphords. They're going to see more samsons. You know, they say that's why the heavyweight division in boxing got completely decimated. And they lost all the good boxers is because if you're six foot four, 280 pounds, you can go play offensive line for three years and make a couple hundred grand a year. At least you'll get a three year career out of it. But if you go boxing chances are you're just going to get wind up a broke boxer because there's only really what, like, 0.1% of the boxers that were making money. Right. So, you know, you definitely definitely agree with you. I don't know. I don't know. You don't know. I want to say what I'm curious about is if we're going to see some of these top classic, that are able to be open bodybuilders stop the argument of we don't make as much money and just slide over. Like, I've never really understood the idea of crying from the sidelines. I'm right. Yeah. I look at some of these guys. I mean, how Chris is guy that won the Arnold in the men's physique? Yeah. Dude, switched to bodybuilding. Yeah. I'll be blown. Yeah. You're already there. Like, you're winning now. If you slide over in a small show is going to pay you more than the Arnold. So, I think what that'll be is the first guy crosses over and does really well. And he's maybe not even the top of the, of the food chain over there. Yeah. And then the other competitor start kind of glancing over going, well, wait a minute. So, I keep doing exactly what I do now, but I eat more. Yeah. Because there's definitely some confusion that these guys aren't on a bunch of drugs. I'm like, well, they're already doing that. They're doing the same drugs and the awful bodybuilding. Exactly. So, all they got to do is slam the eating. Maybe out with the training a little bit. Let themselves put on a little bit of weight in the offseason. And they're good to go. So, I think we're going to see some classic physique guys ruin some bodybuilder dreams. Because there's just so much money there. And those guys, for the cheeks are off the charts. Yeah. That's been my argument for when everyone was bashing the men's physique division. I'm like, okay, remove the board shorts. Don't make him pose like that. Tell me that's not a phenomenal physique. Yeah. You're right. I'd love to see a Logan Franklin do the open. Wouldn't you? Oh, man. Yeah. He's already proven he's, he is a bodybuilder. I know. I know. He started men's physique too. So, yeah. I agree 100%. I think the money game is huge. And I love that the Arnold and the Olympia have got an upissing match because like I'm just said, you know, when I started watching bodybuilding, Ronnie was winning in the Olympia was 110 grand. Right. And now you got all the smaller shows at 100. I mean, how long was 10 grand the prize everywhere for the Iron Man and these kind of shows? And now I'm like, those are going to, those are starting to drift up because they have to because no one's leaving their house for 10 grand. Right. What's going to happen if someone to Dubai offers a million dollars first place? Yeah. What does that do to the Olympia and the Arnold? They have to, they have to meet those prize monies. Yeah. The biggest show is really decided by the biggest purse. Let's not get confused. Yeah. Yeah. It's great to say, yeah, Mr. Olympia. But I'd rather say I just want a million dollars. You know, it's probably a lot. Yeah. I could tell you this much, when you're getting your mortgage worked out, they don't ask him any Olympia to know. No. Now, let me see that bottom black number. How big is that? Well, you know what, we were just talking off camera, you know, about the Thibau, you know, and And Ron is talking about, you know, how they had a room. And when I say a room, if you guys have never had the theme, the halls are enormous. They like, they go on, it's like football fields and football fields along. They had a room that was just dedicated to like Nike and stuff like that. I mean, once, I mean, why in Europe that's acceptable there, but we can't get Nike to sponsor the Olympia. I mean, once that stigma is gone, and I think it will be gone eventually. Once like Nike starts, because a million bucks for Nike is like a joke, you know. It's like it'll just like a chunk change for them. Yeah. Once you get companies like that forking over money, like red bull sponsor, like X games, like with these guys, they're like in jet skis and they're upside down and they're like, it's so fucking dangerous. But they won't give money to bodybuilding. What if I'm red bull, I'm going to give all my money to bodybuilding because that's exciting. You know what I mean? That's extreme. And once you get companies that realize that it's worth investing, because you see other companies that give away a lot of money now, money attracts money. And I think once that happens, forget about it, you're going to get bodybuilders that are going to be making a ridiculous amount of money. And once they do, the physics is going to be off the charts. I think they're going to see physics we've never seen before. You're going to see 10 Ronnie Cummins out there. And that's going to be, I hope I live to see that. I hope I'll alive long enough to see that happen. I hope it happens. And for now, even if it's not at that point yet, it's at the point where I think more guys are competing more often, which I love as a fan of the sport. We're not just seeing Mr. Olympia just sit at the sidelines until the following Olympia. We've got guys that are going out and putting their hat and the ring and risking it like Samson did. Yeah. I mean, look at Larry Samson. I mean, yes, if you want to argue championships, not this nonsense, there's a risk. But to me, he did another show, banked another couple hundred grand. And if you want to call that a loss, be my guest. But I'm all good on a couple hundred grand. He's Mr. Olympia. Yeah. He's been a very Olympia. Who cares? Yeah. Out of that choice. Get back to your original question about Pittsburgh. The lineup is phenomenal there because of the money they're giving away, obviously. And because it's the first show in Jim Manning show, everyone wants to go to the show. But to have a lineup of Nick Walker, good veto, Derek Lundsford just came off the Arnold win. You know, who wants to try to win the three biggest shows of the year, you know, the Arnold, the Olympia and the Pittsburgh, which is insane if he does it. You know, and who do I leave out? Chris, well, Anthony. Oh, they got, um, the. Oh, geez.. Martin Martin Martin Martin Martin Martin Martin Martin Martin Martin Martin Martin Martin. who? And my mind beat Nick last year in the New York probably, even though he didn't beat him. But, so, I mean, you got to, you got to line up there that's this outrage, then you got, you know, Michael, my, Michael, Criszo, who's who looking freaky, you got to Olympia lineup in Pittsburgh. I mean, I'm going to Pittsburgh just because the lineup is so good, so you're getting more people to actually go to these shows too, because they're actually good shows, you know, that enjoyable and I want to cover the show. So I think that if we see more of these happening like this, you're gonna see the body building audience is gonna grow as well because it's exciting, let's face it. A lot of these shows are so boring. There's no one really there who's any good. I don't even buy the paper view because it's so boring, you know? So to see, there's a direct cart, and I got to give Chris the seat of credit because he's the one who said it. He said if they would give more money, you'd get better shows. And I'm like, I don't know, I don't think these guys want to compete, he's like, I'm telling you. And then Arnold gave that 500 before, and he'd give it more 300 for the first year. And all those guys entered and I have to say, Chris is right, more money. More than 100. Another common theme we've found. Yeah. I want to ask you, you've seen, you've coached, like, what thousands of people over there. Yeah. There you go. Is there a common trait that separates the champions from everyone else that, you know, I mean, I'm sure we can just, but I want to hear you say it. Consistency. That's the most important thing. And that's the most important thing to everything in life. We're just talking about before. You want to successful media website, like, ARX muscle, or what you guys are doing. You got to do it every day. It's not a, it's not a, it's not a, once a week thing. It's not a occasionally thing. You can't be a casual bodybuilder. You have to live the lifestyle. If you want to be the best, I'm not talking about, if you just want to look good and feel good in the, I'm talking about if you want to compete at an elite level and be the best, it has to be your life. And you have to sacrifice everything else to the detriment of that because if you don't, and you put other things ahead of that, you'll never be your best. You'll be good. You'll never be the best. And people say, well, you know, family's more important or this one's more, yeah, that's fine. If you want to be the second, the third place guy, yes, that's true. But as story needs, I mean, during the, when he retired, that was the end of his marriage. Yeah, I don't know. I don't know. But, you know, there's things that have looking great co-backs are good friend. You know, so to see stop competing, his marriage ended as well, you know, and Kim was awesome, but they were, it was like they were a team, you know, and that worked for them when they were, when he was competing and doing a period. So, yeah, it has to be dedicated, and you need a group of people behind you that they could support what you're doing. And understand that you're gonna sacrifice everything, maybe even your health a little bit, right? Because you want to be the best at something you're doing. And there's nothing wrong with that. There's no right or wrong, you can't, you can't say that person. That's, he's a terrible person, because only cares about his taken steroids. No, he cares about being the best body builder he can be, and you know what? It's admirable that he's willing to sacrifice everything to be the best, but that's what it takes to be the best. And any champion out there will tell you that and say the same thing. And some guys get to a point with like, you know what, I don't want to sacrifice everything anymore. And that's why they bow out of the sport. And people say, I don't know why I quit or why he stopped, well, because it wasn't that important to him anymore. But at the moment he was at his best, he was giving everything he had to that. And that's what it takes to be a champion. And a lot of people are not willing to go there, they're not willing to suffer and feel like they're gonna die, they're not willing to give up the food, they're not willing to miss the parties with their friends. And they're not willing to, you know, to have people think that they're self-centered ego, maniacs because they're worried about what other people think about them. You cannot be worried about that. You have to be single mind, they'll focus if you want to be the best body builder. And that's the way it works. Yeah. Who, here's a question for you, you know, we're at an hour and a day, we're really pretty sure. Whatever you want, you've gone. Yeah, yeah. Who, I mean, you've seen everybody. Who is the most underrated freak in bodybuilding history that you just don't think got enough love, credit or judging, you know, attention? I think, and I don't particularly like the individual, because he was very jealous and said some nasty things to about me because he was a little jealous of you. But I think he was one of the biggest freaks and he couldn't have been a crazy, successful Bible, Edgar Fletcher, if you remember him from Pittsburgh. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I was a fucking phenomenon. I mean, not a good person, but to Zikwiz man, that guy had it all, but he didn't have the brain. He didn't have the head. Remember Jim Manney telling me he was looking, he was having the old MPC offices overlooked the street. And Edgar was like a week or two out from a show and Jim looked down and he was eating like a cheese burger or something like that. Like, you know, cheating on his diet, you know. And then he was, you know, you'd be like, oh, you know, when you get to the show, they have these shoes. I'm holding water. I don't know why. What happened, you know, film. So, you know, I think that, you know, he's a guy who could have gone very far, but you know, he was his own worst enemy too. So, you know, another common thread in body building. Yeah. Yes. Yes. A lot of guy, you know, Flex Wheel should have won 10 Olympias. You know, if he would have had the mindset of Ronnie Coleman or Dory Nates, he would have been Mr. Olympia 10 times. I mean, there's no doubt about that. So, mindset is really important. You know, and a lot of guys, you know, just don't have that mental toughness, you know. And I think the guys that don't have as good a genetics over compensate by being more mentally focused because we know we have to work harder. I put myself in that category. And maybe you guys find yourself in that tab. Absolutely. Yeah. Because we know we got to work harder than the next time. Because that guy's got better genetics than us. But when you get a guy who's got the genetic talent and the mindset like a Ronnie Coleman, he's unbelievable, right? That's Chris used to say that I won't name any names, but he has had a few really, really good guys. And he's like, if I could just put your brain on their body, it's the right. The wins would be forever. I think Laverone could have been Mr. Olympia 10 times because, you know, when he first came on the scene, he was all out. When he tore his pack, that he even said to me, because I was afraid to train in the offseason heavy because I was afraid I was going to tear it. So I would only train really hard before a show, thinking I was preserving my body, which he might have, he might have deserved it. But he never was as good as he was prior to that pectere. And so he was winning shows and he was placing second at the Olympia a couple times, not in his best. Yeah. Because he had really good legs. If you remember when he first came on the scene, he was saying legs. And then they weren't as good because, you know, if you don't train your legs all year round, you know, they're not going to be, legs are hard to get back. Upper body comes back quicker than legs. Oh, yeah. So I just think he never was as good as it. And I told him that. He's like, you're right. He could have been way better if he would have given 100%. He was a guy who had the talent. He had the mindset too, but he just, he was a little gunshot, trigger shot, you know, on the whole 100% thing. Yeah, he's my favorite physique of all time. And then he's like, that's just, yeah, I take that over anything. Yeah, me too. What was your favorite gym that you ever trained in? This is a hard one because this is so many good ones, you know. It's not Metro flexing the Olympia. I don't like training there because it's hot. It's dusty. Yeah, I don't have the heat. I like the hard-core mentality of him, but it's definitely not something. You know, I, look, I got spoiled because I was, I was living in New York. I trained at Beth Francis Gym all the time. I mean, Steve had the best equipment. It was, the atmosphere was great, because a lot of guy had great guys there. Was it the best gym? I don't know if it was the best gym, but it was the best atmosphere for me to train it. So for me that worked. I mean, obviously, gold gym Venice back in the day had the greatest energy of all time. It might not have had the best equipment, but it was the best energy of all time. Because I mean, in any one time, you had the flex wheeler and core mirror in there. And it was every top body, but it was training in the gym. The Japanese, you know? Oh, yeah. I mean, how do you get the energy of that gym is great? Now, I've meant to gyms that were esoteric gyms like in the middle of nowhere. They had maybe the best equipment I've ever seen. My friend Ron Norman probably has the best equipment in his home gym that I've ever seen in a regular gym. So, you know, but every time I go to a new gym that comes out, I'm like, wow, this might be the best gym I ever went through. I'm always changing my mind. So it's hard for me to say, hmm, that was the best one. And I've never gone to that crazy gym in Dubai. They have that benized gym. Oxygen or buying a spinos? Yeah. It benized gym. I don't, the new oxygen. I don't know if it's open yet, but the benized gym everyone tells me is insane too. So it's funny. Everyone says it's insane, but when I went there, the dumbbells, remember dusty? Yeah. There were no dumbbells on the rack through just all on the floor. Really? Oh, really? They didn't put it away. Wow. And there were no plates anywhere. There were no weight trees anywhere. So you're looking out for running around the gym. Oh, yeah. So it's an amazing gym with these giant TVs and lasers going off and the rack I got going up. But yeah, as a bodybuilder, I'm like, where are the plates? I'm the rack all the way, you know what I mean? Yeah. What's a craziest thing you've ever seen in Beves? Because Beves is a long, long island. There's some tough characters around there. You ever see any scores settled or in Beves? I'll tell you what. I used to work with this gym in a pellum manner. It was called Metrofit. It was in just north of the Bronx and Westchester. Chris knows that the gym because what's his name? Bob Gruskin lived around the corner from there. So Bob would take his guys and do photoshoot. Gruskin. And when I left medical school, I was still living Westchester and had a lease on this department. So I started working at this gym and I would work like 6 p.m. to midnight. And I would close the gym and these guys would come in at night. Like, you know, hardcore, like, you know guys. Turns out they would like, I didn't even know this, but it was like albanian mafia guys. It loved me. They used to bring them steroids and stuff like that. We would always talk about drugs. I'd be biased and stuff like that. But these guys would get into fights with each other with dumbbells and plates and shit like that. And I was like, essentially the bounce are there. And you can't bounce in a gym when people have weapons. And they weren't using knives or guns. They were using plates and shit like these times again into arguments. So I was like Daniel Webster. I was at the Great Negotiator. I would sit, I would have to like negotiate peace. And that was a dangerous atmosphere. But what everyone had in common was everyone loved to lift heavy. And so you could turn it into a competition. Like, all right, guys, let's do a deadlift. Whoever deadlift's more, that's who wins the argument. No, that's, I would do shit like that. We tend to like a dance-off. Like a video dance-off. negotiate with each other. No, I find. But these are pussy. He's not gonna lift more than me. I'm like, all right, let's see. Load up that deadlift bar. And that was the craziest gym I've invented. Never a crazy a gym that because you know what? You never knew every night you never knew what was gonna happen there. And you had to, I had to think of my feet there. And I was only like, you know, 22 years old at the time. And I was, you know, I was like, baby, 250 at the time. I was, and I was just trying to really put on some size. And so, that's the great. I never saw a gym like that ever, in my life ever. And like I said, we'd all happen at like 11 PM at night when there was no one else there, you know? Right, yeah. Dia tell the Albanian gangsters, hey, it's midnight. I got a lock-up, already. Just let them finish their workout. No, they knew they knew it was time to leave. Cause they were, they were great these guys. And you know what? I gave them so much good advice like diet and supplements and how to do this. And I, you know, me only had to anyone's questions. I, I feel like I get off on it. I like giving information now. And years later, I had a problem with someone. I'm not gonna go into the situation. And it turns out that, because one of the guys that used to come to that, that gym at night, was the head of the Albanian mafia. And I knew him. I knew him, because I knew him from 10 years earlier. And he's like, holy shit, they plumber. He goes, he goes, Dave's a good guy, you know? And whatever, I was going, I don't want to talk about the situation, but it worked out my favor because I, it's a bad deal. Bad deal with the use car. I worked out my favor because I, I did a good, I did a good deal. So I always tell people, be nice to everyone. You never know who you're dealing with. You know, it's like the old saying, the guy who comes into the dealership and shorts in the tank top and they treat them like shit because they had some Mercedes dealership or Ferrari, like this guy's not gonna buy anything. Meanwhile, that guy's like a billionaires. No one even knows it. Being nice to everyone. And that's, I'm nice to everyone. I answer everyone. People send me questions. I don't charge anyone to answer questions. I answer questions all day long on emails. I've been doing it for 30 years, you know? And you know what? If you do that, most of the time, those people eventually sign up for you, you know, with coaching for you. I've had guys where I've answered questions for them for 20 years, and the guy even sent me, is you know, you've been answering my questions for 20 years, you've never asked me for a nickel. He goes, I'm gonna sign up for you for coaching, because you know what? I wanna do my first show after 20 years. And you know, and I've become great friends with that person. So, you never really know. And like I said, never, never looked down upon anyone, never like pre-judged people, because you just don't know who you're dealing with. Give everyone the chance to be the person that you would like them to be. And if they prove you wrong and they screw you over whatever, then great. You get rid of him for your life, but don't learn less than people, you never know. That's the perfect way to end this day. You go, this day, you go. You go, like almost like you had this after school special moral that you're gonna deliver to you. Right after the Albany game history story. And that's why they say you're the original OG interviewer in bodybuilding, you know, because a good interviewer knows how to wrap up his own interview. Yeah, yeah, that's right. There you go. But thanks a lot Dave. You got to teach me a great job. By the way, I wanted to just say, keep doing it. I love to see all the new podcasts out there. I like to see people that are, love, you know, telling their stories, their war stories and commenting. And you guys, like I said, are doing it right. I don't get to watch you show, because I don't have time, but my guy in the office to be a mom tells me that it's a great show, so congratulations. Yeah, we're happy that he watches. That's cool. So I hope, you know, good luck with you and species and R-AX, happy all that, you know, everything that's going on and you know, how to draw all the things you need to together to make it happen in bodybuilding. So you know, you can't just do one thing in this industry. It just not how it works. You know, okay. Thanks everybody. Dave Palombo, check them out. Of course, you got to follow mine in Instagram and huge 285, same email. I've had the same email since the 90s. He's had the same email since the 90s. I'm just a change. Yeah, yeah, I give it to people and they're like, you're still on hot mail. I'm like, oh yeah. I'm still on a well. That's a well. Yeah, I love it. Okay, thanks Dave, we appreciate you. Thank you. So this Dave, that was great. It was, we're gonna win for hours. That was crazy. We had a ton of stuff planned. We had all these questions and I just felt like he just gave us, he was like, you know, he'd be talking and I'd be like, oh, I don't need to ask that now. Oh, I don't need to ask that now. You know what I mean? So I thought we did a pretty good job at covering the bases. We wanted to hit. I don't think we'd be missing anything, Scott. Anything we knew? We, we got a very, you know, in that retrospective on Dave plumb. I think all the OG original Dave fans will appreciate this one. Yeah, and a lot of people that know him just as this Dave, yeah, maybe don't understand like, you know, the day that we know him as. And, uh, so not the day that I grew up on. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. He was a different dude back then, you know. And I have to mention the contrast. I remember I went to eat dinner with him and aceto one time. Yeah. Like in like, you know, 2014 or something. And Dave ordered a salmon with, with steamed veg. No McDonald's, huh? And that was like, stark. I was like, is it a different person? No, I mean. And then he only ate like he didn't even finish all of his fish. And he was like, oh, I'm good. The whole time he was a judge of your. Did you ask him if you wanted the rest of your sample? The same. He didn't offer it to him. Okay, you would have said no anyways. Yeah. Yeah, but he didn't. Some of it. That's, you don't know. Yeah, no. No. Dorian salmon was completely untouched. But you still said no. And you said exactly. So I'm much, I'm a fan of salmon. So yeah, no. So thanks everybody. And we're looking forward to getting this one out. We hope you enjoyed it. And we love, we love that you guys like when we have guests on. Yes. So it's fun for us. Yeah. I felt like with Dave especially, we didn't want to have to do much. But nothing. Show them. Me. OK. OK, remember everybody like, share, subscribe, comment, and bring them up. Yes, and remember, I am mutant.com. Go to imuton.com, get your ISO surge. Get your all in and everyone should get on the gear, codes dusty, and big run. Use them. Keep us employed. Yes, there we go. And remember, it's just bodybuilding.

But this is someone that's kicked around at 8,900 milligrams of an or 19. Then, alright, training is harder, but there's over than that. It's a total hundred and loads you need to be more concerned about than what it's broken down into. So up, guys, welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crossland. I'm Scott McDaley. Guys, if you're new to our programming, Dave is an expert witness for the court system, testifying and cases related to PEDs and antibiotics. He is also an educator. What do he, he is also an educator for the police and military in the UK. What is that, Dave? What's got there? It's the bag for me headphones. I just found it. Oh, nice. By the way, I got a Christmas cap, which has got to make a quick flight. So we got to knock this one out. He's flying out with dusty, mutant bought him a ticket. And he is going to be flying in business out to back to you and to make it in time for the Arnold UK. I'm going to wipe me out, so that. So listen, you guys are going to be seeing this recorded episode after the Arnold UK was over. But we're excited. Dave, you can tell Dave's in a really good mood today. Dave's really excited. And he's excited to meet all of you guys at the Arnold. So get a picture with Dave, say hello to him. By then, Christmas cabbage will be with him. And you can get all your pictures and autograph signed with the cabbage. Dave? Hi. Hello. What's wrong? Nice. I'm sure it's going to be fine. You Dave, come on. You're puttin' on an act. You were telling me you were excited. And your wife is excited. You guys are going to have fun. It's going to be a good time. It's a lot of wood. Particularly doing performance two days after for three days. So you have to do, basically, you're going to take a bunch of blood work at the Arnold Expo. Yeah. And then you're going to have to race down to get that stuff in before you. Basically for four miles, right? We've got couriers coming every day to go to the lab with the blood. Oh, do you really? So the couriers go every day to the lab with the blood. The lab's running 24 hours over the weekend. And then basically we get back late Sunday night. And it will be late Sunday night. And then we Monday, we, I'm probably going to start doing blood work reports Saturday or Sunday anyway. And then we get back late Sunday night. I need to try and get some work done. And then up early Monday morning to try and start making it because Tuesday we drive to London to do performance for Wednesday Thursday Friday. Let's perform acts. So before makes is a B to B business to business Expo for the fitness industry. So it's a lot of like coaching education stuff and that sort of thing. Yeah. So we're doing, we're doing the first aid for the Holy Venet, which is why we have to be there from the very first thing Wednesday morning. I got you. And then we're doing, so we're, but we have an astound as well. It's a new one for us. I don't know how it's going to be, but the time is suddenly an awful. Yeah, you're going to have a lot going on. I got to tell you, man, that, go ahead. It's, I'm going to be trying to play through probably best part of 100 plus reports. Yeah. What, what, what, what, what do we do in the number X-Men at the same time? It's going to be a lot going on basically. I'm glad we're able to get this show in. And I've to tell you, we had a good time at the art on. Here was a picture that I took of four famous body building celebrities all in the same shot. I only see three. You only see three? Who? James. James. Yeah. And then there's two of a people. Yeah. And I say. Look at the bottom, right corner. But right corner. Yeah. The cabbage. Actually, he's not Jimmy behind it. Behind James. Yeah, yeah, I think it is actually. I think it is. Yeah. So it's cool. There's five body building legends in that picture. There is. There is. I felt very honored. I should try to get an autograph from each of them on this shot. We had a great time. Appreciate everybody who watched all of our post-Arnal content. And we guys, you guys left us a bunch of questions on the previous episode. So listen, we're going to try to get through those. And we are going to need your help with the next episode. So comment below. Comment, fill this YouTube episode up with all your comments and questions. And that's going to help us to boost our programming back up day. Because we took a hit on views. Ever since we got, ever since we got canceled there for a minute. Do you know that? Ever? Yeah, a little bit. A little bit. But we'll be back, you know, things wax and wena. I'm not surprised at all. We're not doing a million views anymore. No, we're only doing like, you know, 999,000. That's shit. It's going to pull you finger out. Yeah. All right, so listen, I'm going to start here. We had a question. He said, maybe you guys can answer this after the urinal classic. Well, it's after the US urinal classic. He said, um, going to get your opinion on Deca and Trin together. My cycle would look like this. Trinney 400. And excuse me, yeah, wait, Trinney 400, test E 300 and Deca 500. Don't be wise, frowned upon, to use two 19 Norris together, although I've seen high level coaches, protocols where they do use both together. I don't think there's anything particularly wrong with using two nor 19s together. I think the issue is around total exposure to whatever draw. And it's very much down to stacking those certain negative impacts of those drugs together. So, I mean, we spoke about it plenty of times how there's a dropping dopamine when on Trin or Deca. Yeah. So effectively, you're running 900 milligrams of a non-19 compound of one version or another against a 300 milligram test base. Now, I've done that test to Deca before now and other clients would be very, very successful with it. It's not that that's not viable, but you've also got 500 training there, which is it 500, 200 training, I can't remember what he said. 400 trend 300 test E 500. Yeah. So, you've got a very harsh compound. And it's not so much that I have an issue with Trin and Deca together. I don't. I just generally have an issue with Trin. Full stop. I just don't like it as a compound. I think it's very selective each use. And I think it should be used incredibly sparingly. I would never look at Trin for an offseason drug. I think it's way too information based. And I would say for pre-com both either be a performance sport like strength based or or even bodybuild. I'm not a fan of it offseason. I just think it leads to bodyway to stress to get the best out of your growing period. Yeah. But I actually combining the two, it's more a case of what your total dosing is. I mean, if this is someone who's never got a above 500, 500 Deca or 500 trend singularly, then it's about move. But if this is someone that's kicked around at 800 milligrams over the 111, 19, then all right, Trin. It's hard, but there's over than that. It's a total hundred and loads you need to be more concerned about than what it's broken down into. But obviously you are putting in there pretty much the harshest compound that we use, particularly than injectable format. So a lot would depend on experience and things like that and how well you cope with the drugs. But I can see, I mean, obviously, for lactone is going to be a concern. I can see low mood being an issue in that. But as regards to putting the two together, I don't actually have any objection to it apart from my just objection to using Trin in general. Okay. Yeah, it's a lot of you make a good point that on their own, you know, it won 19, you start stacking 19 Nours. Now you're basically running the equivalent of almost a gram of 19 Nours and one of them, and I don't even think that like milligrams for milligrams, Trin is equal to DACA. I would say that Trin has more sides, milligrams per milligrams in general. You know what I mean? Yeah, yeah, I agree. So I could see that definitely something to look out for. What about this one? Trincasterone is it more anabolic than anivar? No. Yeah. I believe, I mean, I've not seen data running, but I believe, Trincasterone is actually quite effective. Well, and I've seen a few blogs where people have managed to achieve levels in more based here. But levels in the mid 30s through Trincasterone. So it definitely adds potential to push you super far from a logical albeit just a small amount. Don't think that's it available. And if I'm not mistaken, he was the first one to bring it to market through Trinutrition, okay? And I had spoken to him about it. And then I'd also listen to him talk about it before. And what he had said is the main reason that he wanted to get this, the main reason he was interested in it is because he doesn't want to use antibiotics, okay? And he said, no, it's not going to replace running a cycle. That's not what it is. But he said, if you were to use this long term that the results you get are going to be better than if you didn't use it. And if you're not going to be an option in your life, then it could be something that could be beneficial to get an extra boost. Yeah. I mean, I've seen a lot of blogs that have had over the count of test boosts as applied to them. So everything from Trinutrition, DAA, DHEA, Macaroo, Tonga, Ali, to Kistra, and on the most part, they have had a positive impact. But he said, are these cyclic levels? No, no, when near. But would they maintain a decent, healthy level of testosterone without moving to TRT? Yes, quite often. So natural boosts, they're not going to get you massive. But they can improve you within those natural promises without doubt. Yep, I go with that. All right, how about this one from Robert? He says, okay, just to add to my previous question, which apparently we didn't, we didn't enhance or he said, I mixed waxing mace with Tibetan salt and beta alanine. I got no pump, but my energy level was through the roof. I've used card powders before, but waxing mace is so old school just thought to try it. So my question, again, is, what's the best pre-workout for pumps? Haven't got a fucking clue. Food. I mean, I mean, to be quiet, honest, it's something I know very little about. It's pretty workouts because I don't like them. I've never used them. So I honestly can't tell you, I'm afraid, it's something I've not really looked at, it's something I've had no cause to look at. I don't use pre-workouts with clients. If they want to use them, I'm fine for them to use them, but there's nothing that I sort of prescribed to do. Yeah. I mean, the best thing I've ever found for pumps is growth and slint. But what about, like, he's saying that, so he adds salt in, he adds a stupid insult. He's in beta-alinean and in carb powder. He's like, I'm not getting a pump. Like, what is so off with your, maybe, because it really comes down to hydration, right? We're all talking about moving fluid. The two factors I would be considering is hydration and insulin sensitivity. That are two things that I find. So the hydration has influenced an unsolved electrolyte balance and instant sensitivity to two things that I find have the biggest impact on people being able to, or not being able to get it to pump. Yeah. Yeah. And if he's not like getting a pump already, something is really off. You know, I would say, try drinking more water and see it literally, see what that does. I'm probably going to come across this the bitter ear. But you should be achieving a pump through training alone. Yeah. If you're anywhere near half decent health-wise, I've never needed a pump agent in my life. Don't get me wrong. I've taken stuff that have massively increased the pump to the point where they were crippling painful and almost got work out. But yeah. Yeah. I've never had an issue of not being able to get a pump with no drugs at all. The only time, excuse me. Oh, good. God. Good Lord. Oh, that. Yeah. Um. There's the only time I've ever had an issue with pumps, per se, was when I was post a huge bout of insolent years. And I was very insolent resistant. And that then I did struggle to get pumps, no matter what I did naturally. But, you know, I mean, the biggest impact you're going to have outside of all this is you're training yourself. And if you're training is not on point, you know, you should. But there were things, why I get a pump feels nice. I get a swallow muscle feels nice, particularly a small group, why try so it's all biceps or douts or something like that. Yeah. But it's not particularly essentially growth. That's true, too. I, if people took as much effort around trying to achieve a pump as they did it, trying to improve their training, the progression would be so much better. Yeah. I've never understood this obsession with pumps, the people have. I don't get it personally. I just find it. It's a, it's a psychological thing. You don't know what I mean. You feel that pump in you. I'll tell you what, man. I think that the pump itself can be, um, it can be a lie almost. Do you feel like it's satisfying? You get a good, hey, I got a good pump today. That doesn't necessarily mean that you did what you needed to in the gym to grow, right? Yeah. Yeah, no. I mean, that I said to you when I've messed it around with stuff like growth and insulin pre workout. The pumps have been to the point where I couldn't train. And I stopped using the drugs because it was actually restricted to my ability to train probably. Yeah. Yeah. That's somebody else just said that, too. I stopped because the pump's hurt so bad at ruining my workouts. Here's a weird one from Alex. He says, I would love the channel to cover this question. Is having CCTV closer to TV in opposing room, breaking the law, or is it legal, but just goes against gym etiquette? I would suspect that because it's opposing me. I'm not even far from knowledgeable on this. I would suspect that because it is opposing room where there is no expected actual nudity. Yes. Cameras would be okay. It's I've known, can my systems be in the communal areas in toilets before now? Oh, really? As long as they were cubical-based toilets and the cameras didn't face into the cubical. So I've seen restrooms with cameras over the things. Wow. But not actually pointing the account point at the cubicals. But that was a restroom where there was no urinals. So there was no chance of any nudity means but. I'm not sure. But I would have thought that the nature of opposing room should be that you are in a costume of sorts, therefore you are no different. And therefore they should be no issue around a camera. But I get people being uncomfortable with it. Yeah. I see it as maybe being no different than like in a robber's room. Yeah, but I can understand why people would be uncomfortable about it. I think also because opposing rooms a lot much more focused on English is a much more intimate environment in the sense that usually it's you or you and maybe one over on your own. So it's got a much more private feel about it than a room with 30 people in Leotard's bouncing up and down on trampolines. No, it's I can see there being an issue there. But I don't think it would be criminal. But I'll tell you what's his name. Does he ever watches the show? Oh, Rick Collins. No, everyone. Oh, game being a law. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I can be no law would know if he's with us. Yeah, comment for us, man. Let us know. There's two. I'd be curious to hear what your thoughts were. It kind of takes me back, Dave, because I remember when there was a transition in fitness and bodybuilding that if you were in a hardcore gym, you could peel down to your boxers or whatever. It right on the gym floor. And it was acceptable. You know what I mean? It was acceptable back then. We're in a different world today. I mean, people might peel their shirt off for a minute, hit a couple shots. You know, get the same sullek thing. I hear Sam likes to check his pump. You know? He's like, yeah, let's get a tiny thing. But it's not a common thing now. Like it used to be that you're done training legs. Boom, you dropped those pants right on the gym floor. And I'd talk to people, even in 2016, I was like, would that be weird to you? And I remember some people being like, yeah, I don't want to see all that. Hi, I have a confession to make. Uh-oh. Are you streaking? Again? No, so I, I, I, I've worn baggies. My whole training career. You know, like the AT's sort of baggy fun stuff. Yeah, yeah, like the crazy were. Yeah, I've won those for a very, very long time. I'm not going to bother you to make me loads of mad versions of it. Nice. I mean, I have got you trouble before now, because I tended to go, commander when I was wearing those items. Oh my god, Dave. And I have got you trouble for now for dropping my pants in the middle of the gym to check the pump in the legs and just using my hands to cover my. Oh, no, that's another level there, Dave. That's another level right there. So I confess to having done that. I got it trouble for it. Listen, I will give you, right here. I've got two Canadian dollars right here. Hey, I've got it right here. I will give this to Christmas cabbage if you check the legs. At the Arnold Expo. It's got to be on camera. I haven't got any legs anymore. Oh, okay. Okay. I'm, I am, I, I, I, I literally day by day I am slowly turning into a bigger big of a fap mess than I've got. Oh, come on. Are you keeping up on your cardio? I'm eyeballing some done nothing for weeks. Oh, I know. I know. I just decided to leave it to laughter on all the men get back on it. It just takes you since I know it is, but, sir, no, thanks guys. It seems one of I get away with that one. Well, you heard him, you heard him, guys. Dave's gonna get with it after the Arnold. So be sure to comment and ask him how his cardio is going. And we will, we'll keep up with Dave. How about this one from Still Dreaming? He says, hey, Scott and Dave, I caught you live on Facebook the other day. By the way, guys, if you want to watch our live, you can go over to the Facebook group, but think big body building medium. Says, you told me to comment here a topic ideas. Oh, great, good man. He says, how do body fat levels affect the efficacy of exogenous hormones, both gear and growth? And is more gear sometimes needed? Are there cases where higher body fat levels can be better or enhanced their effectiveness? No, the opposite. So you say you need more gear if you're fat? Yep. Well, I would never say you need more gear if your fat, but gear is less effective when you're fat. Because fat actually has undergen receptors in it. Yeah, yeah. Two things happen when you're fat. You get an increased production of aromatase. So as a result, you've got more of an eastern conversion. And fat actually has undergen receptors. And it actually has ars. So though you're not going to get a positive impact from lunges engaging with the air. In fact, it is going to tie some of the compound up and therefore not have it available for the air in most tissue. And as we have, we don't have an infinite life on antibiotics. Obviously, if the anaerobolic is tied up in non-productive tissue, then it isn't doing a job of signaling for muscle tissue. So yes, being fat, I mean, there's much more downstream things to consider as well, like fitness, recovery, abilities of training, hard, and recovery because of it. Higher issues with heart health, because you carry more unnecessary weight. The dirt, the dirt, the dirt. So there's a whole host of things that can affect your performance off the back of that. But basically, chemically, the fat in you are the less effective your dose will be. Hmm. All right. I think all the fact guys out there, like thinking of excuses, they're like, this is the reason why I need to run twice as much. No, it's the reason why you should get leaner. And I know that's ironic coming from me at the moment, but it is the truth. You know, it's, you will always get a better uptake in this response if you are leaner. Okay, how about this one? Can Dave? I don't know who this guy is, all right? But he says, can Dave explain the Paul, Pogba, doping band and DHEA. So I looked the guy up, he was banned from sports for four years because he tested positive for having taken DHEA. Come on, come on people. So DHEA is the bomb substance. And that's really the thing is with, when you look at weather, they've even attempted to run caffeine. And I think even caffeine levels are actually monitored, as well, in certain things. Hmm. You know, and let's be real. We all know that the performance of vantage caffeine is going to give us is not going to be huge. But when you're talking about athletes at the very top of the game, a small percentage, you still a small percentage, and it still improves their performance. Yeah. Now DHEA is a precursor hormone to do with the adrenal axis. I have adrenal glands to make testosterone. They don't make huge amounts of it, but they do make it. Yeah. In fact, roughly your adrenal glands probably going to be capable of making about five, maybe six and more. Maybe a little bit, maybe a little bit more of your push to really hard. By supplementing with DHEA, you increase adrenal gland output of testosterone. So effectively raising your test levels. It's a mechanism that's exploited in females when they have low-energy and syndrome, but basically low test. And even they don't want to go on to testosterone or they aren't able to go on testosterone because it's just not prescribed or whatever the regulations be, where they are. DHEA is a common secondary supplement. And 25 milligrams of DHEA day can see female test levels go from less than 0.5 into sort of one and a half, two, two, 0.5, and more. It's not huge, but that's hugely impacting in a female. Okay. Long term. So DHEA does have the potential to increase testosterone levels for the average person. Is that going to make any difference to their performance not massively? To somebody at the very top of their game, we may be talking single digit percentile here, but yes, it could have a small positive impact. But the bottom line is, what about it? You use it, you're breaking the rules and therefore using the bansolstens. And a lot of the rules that I've seen, not all, but a lot of the proposals through what are for bansolstens are quite literally a case of, well, this study showed that this compound gave a performance increase. So therefore we're banning it with no actually application of what that performance increase would be in the real world. So a lot of their banning decisions are based around the studies that show some form of, very often lab-based improvement in potential performance from a compound with no real world sort of reality check on how much that is going to affect somebody. But I mean, you're talking at the top end, you're talking about athletes that are very meticulous about every aspect of what they do in order to improve their performance. You know, they've got all the eyes dotted on all the D's, cross. So small changes can yield different results. And when you're only talking for actions of a second, dividing people in first and second, you know, it could be as much as that to make a difference. So it's such a small amount. I get what you mean. Like if you take a finely tuned race car, giving it just a little bit of an edge might outpace another car. But just how small, like if I were going to do it, man, I want to go a little bit bigger than that, you know? Yeah, I mean, I'm so actually, I'm going to go on a course. I, you know, I mean something. Yeah, something. Well, he says, so this is brand new news by the way, because I'm seeing as of like 24 hours ago, there have been stories released about this. He says that, what does this say? They have a few different statements here. But one of the things is he's saying that it was an accident. Now, he was seeing that he was somehow literally the word is tricked into taking a band substance. And he's apologizing and maintaining as in essence, as of just 24 hours ago. Yeah, I mean, I, though there is a possibility he's taking a supplement, not realizing one or even it contained DHA or two that it was even DHA, just as a single ingredient. Yeah, possibly. But unfortunately, in the sport, the responsibility and onus is on the competitor. So whether you had a coach advise you to take it or someone else told you to take it and it was, you were told it was fine to do so. That will not be seen as an excuse for the fact that you've used it because ultimately you are responsible for what you put in your body. Looking at this article, this just shows me how terribly inaccurate the news can be and how little they know about this world. They have a picture of him and the caption under it. I assume this is the same situation because they're talking about him taking DHA. The caption reads, Pogba was banned in February after testing positive for testosterone. Well, yeah, but you see that's the thing. So the downstream effect would be another situation in testosterone. So he's getting that much of an increase in time. This is the weird thing because I suspect what they've detected his DHA. Yeah, yeah. Because when my understanding, if I'm right and I'm sure somebody will correct me if I'm wrong, but when they drill testing sports, what they do is obviously they look for the metabolites, the compounds that are that. They don't actually test your testosterone levels. So the lower it might be worse. They look at tests to epitast, too. Like you will check your test and they look at their ratio. They do look at ratios, that's true. I can't see this throwing the ratio out to an extent where it would be questionable. Right. So I think what this will be a case of is they've picked up a metabolites of DHA as compound and realized that these levels are a way in excess of what's natural this person must have been supplemented with this compound. And he's obviously admitted he was because he said he's taken it mistakenly. He's not denied taking it. Yeah. So I think that's going to be the case. But obviously DHA does result in testosterone production. So they're not quite right, but I think they've just looked at what DHA does and then jumped on the testosterone word because it's more sensationalistic. Right. General public knows what test is. They may not know what DHA is. Right. All right. Well, enough of that, Bollocks. And by the way, he's a French soccer player or English football soccer. Do you guys ever call it soccer? Occasionally, actually. I've heard it used, but maybe we call it football. Hey, one day I want to ask you again. We talked about it a long time ago. If we ever get the time, we have all these questions. But if one day I'd love to ask you again about the Hooligans in Hooligan culture, it's a fascinating subject to be. How about this one about SEO? He says, sometimes I have a bad shot with my regular test. And it gets ugly swelling. That goes down within a few days. If one were to take a more long lasting oil, such as Synth oil, would that ugly swelling if it were a bad shot? Remain as long as the oil was in the muscle, or does the swelling go down in the oil stays in the muscle? Thanks, and advance, long time follower of the show and appreciate the content. This is from Benjo. Benjo. So, Wayne, you've got a swelling off a bad shot. You've got information. You've got actual swelling of the tissue. It's inflamed. It's swollen. It's holding water. You can't manipulate that swelling. It's the tissues. The fibers that are irritated and that are inflamed. That's it. That's it. You're not going to move that anywhere else by massage or doing anything else. When you take Synth oil, the oil sits in the muscle and gets between the fibers enlarging the muscle. It sits. You can, if you do a bad shot with Synth oil. So, with Synth oil, you're supposed to do lots of small shots. Disperse it all around the muscle. And then you're supposed to massage that as well to make sure it penetrates evenly across the muscle. So, you don't get a spot lump. You get this even swelling of the whole muscle. But Synth oil's an oil that sits there for a long time. So, to an extent, you can physically manipulate it with massage. So, if you were to fuck up with a Synth oil shot and just dump a load of oil in one spot, you're going to get this lump. But you can manipulate that with Fizio to get that dispersed more evenly through the muscle. I would suspect it's fucking painful. Yeah. I have no direct experience. I use Synth oil once. I injected it in my calves when I was about 21. Couldn't warp for five days and never went near the shit again. I didn't even know what it was. I was told it was a sight and Hansen that caused local ice growth. Yeah. Yeah. So, I stuck a couple of milling each calf. Could not even move my ankle for about five days. Oh, that's ugly, man. That's right. Yeah. And that was the only experience I've ever had. So, but yeah, there's quite a few online injection protocols of how you pattern it and stuff. But the difference is, with a bad shot, you've got information at the site and that information won't move. Right. With Synth oil, you've got to slow this dispenser oil that you can't actually physically manipulate that further into the muscle with a lot of massage. Here's what I found a couple of things. So, the one time I tried Synth oil, I didn't use nearly enough to make it work. And it's like, I think part of the reason is that you're putting it in and you're putting more in, you're putting more in. And it's like a regular thing. It's not just like once a week and a month later, everything looks better. These guys are taking a lot. And the guys who look like real gross, like the Synth oil freaks, I can't even begin to imagine. Like we're talking hundreds and hundreds of milliliters per muscle. I just couldn't imagine what that protocol would look like, nor what I want to. I have helped reduce localized swelling if it's in an extremity, either adult or a quad. And I found here's what I've done, Dave. I've used, so you try everything, right? If you take I'd be profine, you try to get this swelling down. Some people have iced, I've always used a heating pad. And I feel like that heat helps to get better blood flow in there and carry it away. And then the trick I never hear anybody ever mentioned on podcasts. And it's worked every time for me is to put some slight compression on it. Now you obviously can't do that as easily with a glute shot. But if a quad shot, you could slate, you could just lightly wrap that with like an A bandage. Not tight, we're not trying to cut off the circulation, but just gentle pressure, go to bed. And the next morning that swelling gets pushed, it's been pushed out. Well, yeah, now some of that is because that swelling is coming from on dispersed oil. Yeah, yeah. So there are two types of swelling with a shot. The first one is a pool of oil. Yeah. And he is very, very good because the heat will heat the oil. The oil will then get more viscous, it will get thinner. Yes. And therefore it will move through the muscle easier. And the pressure that you're talking about, the compression, yeah. It's literally, that's it. You're putting pressure on a blob of oil in your leg. Yeah. It allows it to be pushed deeper into the muscle. But the other type of information you're going to get from a bad shot is where you damage the muscle tissue. Now this can be bad needle, moving the needle, pushing into fast too hard. And you cause a localized sight trauma. Yeah. That's actually individual muscle fibers that have swollen because they have been damaged. That's different. That won't disperse in the same way with heat. No, the pressure will. No, but yeah, heat and cold will lower information. But you're not trying to disperse an oil. You've actually got inflamed tissue that you try to deal with. So there's two separate possibilities with a sight swelling. Yeah, sure. In God forbid an infection. Then we're talking to whole other can of worms. And you can get sterile infections as well, whether it's actually no foreign body, but your body reacts like the rays. Yeah. Sterile cellulitis, cellulitis infections, I wouldn't say common, but do happen. Yeah. With any swelling, just a little tip. But if you find a swelling, I would, especially if it's not a lump, if it's a generalized redness patch, I would draw a line round it and see if it's spreading. Yeah. If it's growing, chances are it's, it's probably a former cellulitis. And you will probably need antibiotics together on the control. If it's a lump, then it can be, like we've already said, trauma on this first oil, or it could be the forming of an absence. Now, I've only ever had two. I've never had an actual obsessed, but I have had two lumps that were basically the starts of infections. And in both cases, basically, big green in several times, in a hot shower, plenty of heat, squeeze the livid shav it, and I just aspirated it and cleared it all that way. So I was always thought, what put it in there will get it out. And to it agree, that can work. But it is very specific. You need to have the lump. You gotta be careful with that, too, because if you do have an absence that your body's walled off everything to save it from that infection. And if you puncture that, you could go septic, right? You can do, yeah, you've got to be sensible with it. The other thing you'll find occasionally is that you can get lump, and what they are is pool blood. Yes. So if you've got it, yeah, you've clicked a vein. It collects in a pocket, and it acts almost like an absets. That blood can start to pulse. And again, that can be aspirated. But you'll know, if you can feel when you put a needle into something like that, you can feel when it ends the pocket. You can physically feel it on the needle. In fact, when you do blood testing, what you're taught is, you feel the needle going into the vein. You feel that pop as it enters the vein. You can do that, and then even using a string you can draw around, or you can squeeze out. If you're getting blood and pulse, it's an internal bleed that's going to be a bit funky. That can be aspirated. But if you start to feel a fever or any symptoms of system wide infection, then it's definitely doctors and antibiotic straightaway. And another, this is medical advice. See, medical attention. Obviously, don't listen to it, you guys. And the internet. And I won't say that I haven't done all the same stuff you're talking about, Dave. Yeah. Yeah. I'm going to tell you something. OK. Let's see. And I won't, like I said, I won't say that I have an, I'm no stranger to exactly what you're talking about, too. I think if you've been in the game long enough, yes, these things happen. All right, let's see if we have anything here in the live stream to wrap us up. And then we'll get some words of wisdom from Dave. Let's see, thoughts on subcube test versus at M. Uh, subcube limits for all you. Yes. Um, that would be my main concern around subcube. Uh, subcube for TRT. Yeah, no issues without whatsoever. I think it's perfectly fine. You will slow the absorption rate, so you will get much less with a peak, much more stable levels. And I tend to find because of that, you get a bigger overlap as a result you can actually run a slightly lower dose. So how are you? Yeah. When I used to do TRT subcube, I was down as low as 50 milligrams twice a week, but when I did TRT, I am. I was 60, 65 milligrams twice a week. So it's not a huge difference, but there was definitely a distinct difference. OK. I would really look at subcube for cyclic doses. I mean, obviously depends where you are with cycles as well, but I would be a little bit more reluctant to do subcube for higher volumes. I tend to want to be sort of third of a mil. Uh, max, maybe half a mil, a real push for subcube. Yeah. I've done more. It gets irritating. I've done like a mill leader. And it wasn't a good move. Now, I think it's very volume limited, whereas in to most of the, obviously, volume of that ability increases, and now when she can get in that. Um, but you will get a quicker uptake as well for the NIM. I've done smaller amounts of alkaline teen as well. amino asylum has like a 600 milligrams per mill leader. That's pretty painless too. Um, I went shop there, and if you don't, then don't use code think. But I'd use like maybe 200, 200, 300 milligrams. So like between an a third to a half mil leader subcube. And I found that to work well for me. But then I've had clients and friends that had tried the same thing. And they said, so a lot of guys had said, no, there's too much, too much irritation from it. Hmm. Yeah, you can definitely get a lot of the exercise for subcube. Yeah. Right. See those we have here. Um, I thought we had one. Shh. What are we going to say? Where was this? Something about insolona. Um, fast acting insulin, pre and post workout would help to implement with other meals or on off days. Uh, I can't get longer acting insulin where I'm from. So I personally, when this is, this is me personally. If I wanted the big pumps that we were talking about earlier in the show, Yeah. Then the pre pre post would be my go to. If I wanted more effective use of the insulin to further grow, if I would focus more on around insulin with meals. And I would do fast acting anywhere. I'm not a fan of slow. Um, but I would look at like a start point, probably two to three I.e. per meal. But I'd adopt the pre and post workout. Um, or at least drop the pre. Yeah. Um, because even with fast acting, you've gotten accumulation over a day. Though it peaked quickly, it does hang around for quite a few hours. Um, so you will start to get a little bit of a build up and no overlap. So it is worth being conscious that. Dependent way your doses is your last meal of the day. You may not put any insulin with it at all because you're already going to have elevated circulate levels. Yeah. Yeah. And days off, I mean, I think part of the part of the beauty of insulin nowadays is our understanding that we can get it in there, surgically use it at specific times. And I would personally want to try to maintain my insulin sensitivity or clients insulin sensitivity as best we can. And so off training days are non training days would be my opportunity to not use it. To kind of, you know, make sure that we keep you as insulin sensitive as possible. The more you use the lower your insulin sensitivity is going to end up being. Hmm. Yeah. I mean, if you keep doses, low leaps, impacts not too great, but it actually protects insulin sensitivity to an extent. But when you start going beat, this is why I've also not found a pre post because pre post encourages Ayodosis. Hmm. And obviously when you start going way above what would naturally be produced, then just know where you can't have a negative impact on the insulin sensitivity because that Reset is getting saturated with insulin way above what it would normally encounter. What if you're effectively an Ayurbulv that negative impact is significantly reduced much better tolerated longer. And I wonder when he says, I can't get longer acting in insulin where I'm from. What is he talking about? Does lung acting mean like, like, lantess or something like that? What's he using as using like a novel in our? Because that's novel in regular. That's not rapid. That could be, that could be still. I consider that a middle of the road in insulin. You know what I'm saying? That you take that pre. It's going to cover you through your training. It's going to cover you through your post. And it'll still be active for a little while beyond that, possibly into the following meal. Well, I mean even human or God, it was a peep. I think human or God peaks at night. He'll be in a lot. He's pretty short. Yeah, it's pretty short. But then he's still detectable 10 hours later. Human log is. I'm sure it is. Okay. I'm not. Don't quote me on that. I'm going back to my last days here and trying to remember. Okay. Human in our. You. Um. Malice you sent your breakdown of the. Half license decay rates of all the different insulin. So, dependent on which one you picked. You knew what you were looking at timing was. Hmm. And I can't remember. I'm so. Yeah. I, I, you, you know, and are me. I, I believe maybe. I'm not sure about human log. I have always started to be out before that. Like completely out before that period of time taking our insulin. Uh, act like. Oh, he's somebody says taking regular insulin like human and are taking it. I am will make it act faster like fast acting, which is true. Do you know what you're, yes, you will. Yeah. Um, you mentioned me, Lowe's. Have you over Matt Samson before he's, he's from over there in your country? I haven't. No. Right. So, human log. Doesn't fully decay until 10 hours. It's 10 hours. Okay. But it's peak is at one hour to two. Okay. So, you're right at 90 minutes. There's a very rapid drop off from four to six hours. Okay. So, you definitely then are going to get some overlap pre and post, right? But it doesn't actually fully go. So, you've got this, this really steep peak curve over which lasts about an hour and a half. And then quite a rapid drop and then you've got a little bit of a tail off at the end for the last couple of hours. Okay. So, Samson was working with melo's and he decided not to. I don't know what's gone on there. I only caught part of the start. I just saw Mike Meilers put a, or melo should have said, put up a post saying, you know, thank you for the time working together and enjoyed it. We should all be best. Yeah. I don't know where else has gone on. He's working with his wife now for this for the urnell. Yeah. I've heard a few stories, but I don't know if any of them have any weight to it. They weren't particularly positive around his wife, but I don't know if that's just nastiness and internet bullshit. I don't know if it's an internet bullshit. I don't know if it's an internet bullshit. That's very well could be. Yeah. I don't know if it's not even say that. You know what I'm saying? Because then you say that and then somebody else listens to you and that's how rumors began. You know what I mean? No. Oh, Dave said that there's some nastiness. You know what I mean? Yeah. I have no actual idea to what's gone on. I believe he went to hospital, but wasn't that just for some checks? Yeah. He wasn't feeling good after the urnell, the urnell, the real urnell. I'm going to call it. So what are you going to do at the urnell UK? You're going to hang out with all of your friends and all of your podcast fans, your Dave your celebrity. You know, so I'm sure lining up. So if I'm hanging out with all my friends, you mean I'm sitting there on me on with a stuff cabbage toy. Yeah. Christmas cabbage is on his way. He's literally the minute we're done with this podcast. I am setting him out. Uber is coming to pick him up. He is flying down to meet Dusty and then Dusty got him as it like I said business class seat through mutant mutant hooked him up. So I immediately woke him up, but they woke me up. Yeah. They want to send me over to the people. They want to fly me up. They were going to bring me over Dave, but then Christmas cabbage and you need it to ride home. So they're going to give the ticket to him. All right. I'm going to get all the supplies themselves. I mean we got out Thursday morning. We set up. So Thursday's steady. And then we have the Friday the expo starts. It's nine till six. But it's. It's. The market is a trade day, but I've never really found it to be such. Okay. And then Saturday is going to be the busiest and then Sunday morning will be quite busy and then Sunday afternoon it will die off Sunday finishes at five Saturday finishes at six. Okay. That's longer hours than ours. Yeah. We'll be doing this usual crap. No doubt it's Zach will be giving me loads of shit. Good. We need that. We've got to, I believe Cooper and MegaWitters on the Friday, Nathan Phoebe with his all weekend. Mass Monster Charlie's coming down Saturday. Nice. Amy's getting a flip between us and mutant obviously is primary. Going to be at mute because that's his main sponsor. Sure. But it's going to come across and give us an hour. Okay. Zach's with his all weekend. Broaddrix going to be floating about. He's got quite a few people with him as well. Hollywood muscle. Don't know how to. Yeah. No. I can't pronounce the guy's last name over time. Yes. Yeah. Yes. I don't know. I know. Tonya she's listening to her for show. I met her this past weekend. She was there with Broaddrix. She stopped by the mutant booch and said hi. We talked for a little bit. Got pictures and stuff. She watches the show live a lot of times. I know it's getting way better to do. I'm old. Okay. No, I won't be watching this show. We're going out for a meal with everybody sat in the night. So, where you going? But, uh, for Zendah, all you can eat me. Okay. Is that the place that I went to with you? Dave treated me to a really nice meal. Guys, what we were out there. Actually Dave wouldn't let me pay for stuff when I visited. I'd pull it out while any billi-no. Was it in leads? Next to the canal. No, I guess that's what I've been in Liverpool. And it was a really, it was one of the places that they bring the meat off her. Yeah, no, that's, yeah, same place. Oh, okay. That was good food, man. Yeah, same place. Uh, we, yeah, we're going to the Birmingham version about. Um, so we're taking everybody out for that sat in night. Um, and that's it, really. I mean, it'll be what it'll be up. No idea how it's going to be. It looks. Okay, from what I'm seeing from a point of view of who's there and, and, interest, it looks like it should be a decent show. Yeah. Yeah, I bet it will, man. I hope you guys have a lot of fun. Before we go, uh, do you have any words of wisdom first? Dave, I'm called Dave's advice of the day. I don't know if I've done this before. So, I, if I've got a lot of key swimming, then yes, you have. Yes, he's swimming. Um, when, don't be afraid to say no, don't be afraid to be what many would term as selfish. You, there's an old saying you can't give from an empty cup. Uh, and effectively what it means is you have to make sure you're right before you start giving yourself away to others. And we, we are conditioned through society that you're a bad person if you don't support and help people. But if that helping someone else is detrimental to your own well being or your own financial circumstances, then you shouldn't be doing it. Um, the other thing is that when you give or help, it should be done free. And what I mean by that is that a lot of people will do some really a favor, but then bank it that they're older favour. And if that favor isn't returned, they get resentful of the person that they did the favor. Oh, yeah. Yeah. When that person asked me for a favor, there's very, I don't think they came to you and said, look, can you do this for me? And then I will repay this by doing you a favor further down the line of you need one. No, right. The came and said, can I have a favor? You give it because you're willing to give. And that's the key word, give. It's not I give it you on the condition that you do something for me later on down the line or that you do this or that you do that. It's a gift or it's nothing at all. Yeah. If if you expect something in return, then you make that very clear. It's like when somebody asks me to lend them money, which is rare because I'm a tight shit and don't lend anybody money. But the point is, if I lend someone money, I do it under the understanding that I may never see that money again. Yeah. I may, obviously I'm going to pursue the return of that money because it was only a low. But I go into it with this understanding that I could very well lose that money. And I will go into it also as well way not the right. So if I lend this person who's say supposedly a friend, 200 pounds and they don't pay me back, it's cost me 200 pounds. But then it's like, well yes, but what I've actually done is pay 200 pounds to find out what this person is like. Yeah. And I now know that they aren't worth it. And so, to an extent, I could argue it's money well spent because I now know that that person is not somebody that I want around me or in my mind. Yeah. You learned to listen. You learned to 200 pound less than. Yeah. And so I've paid to learn that. And I don't, I try not to anywhere. I can't say I don't always, but I try not to fall out with people in situations like that. It eats more just a case of, right? Okay. I understand where I stand. I understand where I am in your relationship in your life. And as a result of that, I'm going to choose to not have you in mind anymore. There are people obviously getting to trouble, make she lend money and leave to date. As long as someone straight, it's fine. You know what I mean? I can't afford it the moment because of x-way. It's fine. But yeah, it's still like that. But it's not just about the money. It's also about the giving of your time or the giving of your resources or the giving of your intellect. Never give it unless you are truly willing to give it. If you give it with conditions attached, if you don't make them clear to the person, then what do you expect? You know what I mean? You had to, nobody expects to pay for advice if it's not made clear to them that they'll have to pay that advice back in some form. Yeah. That's true. But at the same time, don't be embarrassed by going, no. I can't do that. Or I'm not capable of doing that. You know, I just don't have the in me to be able to afford to give you that amount of my energy. Yeah. Because you've got to look after yourself because no one will focus going to do that for you. That said, we should assume let's take next week off. Let's first like the eight woods help. So just to let the guys know ahead of time, Dave doesn't hate you. He's just got a lot going on right now. Between the Arnold, you're going to have you're going to have to do all your blood reports. Excuse me, blue reports. Blue reports. Yes. And then you've got to go out and do the trait, the other trait, Joe. So we'll plan to reconvene in a couple of weeks. I do think that is good advice. And it's hard to it's hard to say no, period really. It is especially especially when you want to be able to make people happy. That's what it comes down to in my life, you know. But it's not worth making yourself miserable. When you get on the plane, they say you have to put on your own mask, your own oxygen mask before you can put on somebody else's, right? Because you have to be safe before you can help somebody else. It's the same, basically. Principal, yes. Yeah. All right, guys. Well, thank you for tuning into another episode of the podcast with Dave Cross on Obscaught McNeilly. Go to evilbloodanalysis.com. Get your lab work done by Dave or go to the Arnold UK. Get your lab work done by Dave there. Let's try to hook up you in Ron and Dusty. Take like one minute, please. Go over to the mutant booth and tell Jamie to introduce you. You've met Dusty now. Okay, I'm going to be. No. Why can't they come to me? Why do I have to give my time to them? Because you're giving man. That's why. No, no, I'm miserable. Because it's easier to get one person to go me three than it is to have three people come over to me. One, that's why. And then tell them to come by and tell them you know, you'll give them a pro discount on getting lab work done. You could give them, you know, 10 dollars off. Give them 10 dollars off. Give them 10 dollars off. They're my friends, Dave. Yeah, come on. There's this, there's this too. That's what it is. Discount. What? That's how it is. That's how it is. That's how it is. Exactly. You have no friends. I got Christmas cabbage, but he's leaving. Actually, I'll shit the overs here. Christmas cabbage, run. All right, he's gone. The overhead to pick him up. I just, yeah, yeah, just if, yeah, we just depends what we're like. If we, if I get some time, I'll get across. Yeah, it's going to run a Sunday or something. Something like that. I want to see a picture of you guys all together. It depends how far away it is. I may need to get a transform. Transport? Yeah, use discount code cabbage. For 10 percent off, it's the friends and family discount. It's helpful at it. Alice's that cop. Dave will come and do your labs. You'll get a free pizza. You'll do them at your house. And you could use this code to now also get 10 percent off. In fact, Dave will pay you to do it. No, just kidding guys. Also check out TrueDutrition.com. Use our code think over there. For digital savings, you guys need protein powders and all that stuff anyway. And if you're in the UK, then go to Strom Sports Nutrition. So Strom's going to be there too. I assume. No, I don't believe so. I don't know. No, no, I don't think so. I got to see Rick today or this last week. He was at the Arnold US. Yeah, he was. He competed in some manhogan, but sniffing things. I saw that man. I saw pictures of him in like a little bathrobe. You know, and he wrote it around the floor sniffing of a man's voice. Whatever it was, he did real good at it. You know? Yeah, I believe he has a very good sniff. All right guys, we appreciate you, Tina and thank you to everybody from Patreon. And we will see you in a couple weeks. Of course, we'll keep the content going and say hi to everybody for me out there, day for the Arnold. No. Thanks.

If you want more dates, look like the rock. Yeah, don't look like a bodybuilding. What's up, everybody? We've got another episode of It's Just Bodybuilding. I am not big wrong part, though, obviously. But this is Scott McNalley. I'm Dusty Hancha. And today, we have an episode without big wrong because he had, well, better things to do. Actually, it's because he's out saving the world, getting us another mute on a mission. And I'm envious, which is why I'm already talking trash because he's at the shed. Training, with James Hollings, had getting us all a video. I had hoped to go out, but it wasn't going to work with the shows. So here we are. As always, we got to lead the show with the work. Yeah. Remember to like, comment, like, share, subscribe, and I got to do it. Ring the bell. You did it all. You did it all. It's very stressful. I don't know if you know what's funny. I never listened to all the words that Ron says. You just hear the cadence. I just wait for my moment. And I'm like, why? I was actually practicing in the mirror earlier. If no. I should have because it was bad. Probably you should have. I'll just just a couple of times. Don't forget, I am mutant.com, Pratsbores of the show. And remember to use the codes this week. I need everyone to use big Ron 20 because I think he probably feels a little bad. So this week, we're going to turn his code on. It's going to work. But if you really can't hand out supporting guy who doesn't like sandwiches, dusty 20 will still work. We'll say 20 percent, we'll get you all your things. We get you your mind. This hand as well as your gear. And I'm going to stick with the ones I like. You've got to have some ice of surgery in your life. Chocolate, the triple chocolate. Good to go. So Scott, what do we have today? We've got a bunch of stuff. Hard work. You're prepared for Ron not being here, which made my life a lot easier. That was good. You've got some stuff. I've got some stuff. We're going to hold this together. I'll tell you guys Ron feels bad when he can't make it to the show. But he is out doing the work of making bodybuilding better, recording another animation. So yeah. Yeah. So we got some topics though. And for starters, we're going to make this one really quick. Somebody asked us, do more plates. Really equal more dates. I think most of the people that are watching this know that if we're going to say more plates equal more dates, these are brod dates. Yeah, that's the only. You can go out with your boys. I mean, it's just a common fact. I think what I did Scott was at a young age, I realized that not much at all was going to equal more dates. So I might as well just get huge and blame it on that. And that's what I went with. So yeah, no, it's funny. For me, I've never had a woman that was even like that bodybuilding was a connection. It was just like he's fine. And for whatever reasons, I'll put up with the bodybuilding or they might like it. But they definitely, you know, even Nicky, her thing with bodybuilding, she would much rather, like even when I leaned down because I choose to. She just likes like big. She'd much rather. I was too 90 right now and soft. She just thinks, yeah, that looks better. There shouldn't like abs and all that. And that's the other thing. There's a flip of the coin. I'm not going to talk about being big. Yeah. I want some fat. I'm like, ah. So as always, I'm disappointing ladies by staying leaner than she would like. And my youngest daughter, same thing. Her boyfriend wants to get lean and she pretty much could wash it. There is no question. You've been by my in dusty that dudes lift weight. Do two lift weights only get attention from other dudes who want to get as big as they are. So that they can get attention from other dudes. It's a circle of life in the gym. That's how it goes. But that's how we bond together. You know, I see a guy and I'm like, oh, yeah, that guy looks serious. You know what I mean? It's like that guy looks like he's putting some work in. He's all right by me. You know what I mean? That's like now we're on the same level kind of thing. But the reality is, and I think I mentioned this before, we get so engrossed in the industry of bodybuilding and in the world of this, it starts to become hard to tell if somebody actually is bigger or not. Like I look at you and I'm like, oh, yeah, I dust these big. Love that I take a guy who's like 220 and he's definitely serious about training, but he doesn't have like 23 in germs. And then I honestly, I can't tell if they lift weights are not like, yeah, I don't know. You lift weights and anybody else is like, oh, that dude's huge, you know. Right. Yeah, the word huge is interesting because you'll hear that about like an athlete. And because we have a warped understanding of huge, you've seen the Rock East huge. I'm like, I've trained right next to him. He is not huge. I've never seen him like next to a bodybuilder. Like how, how, where would you put him like how close is he to being like bodybuilder size? Not even close. Yeah. He's like athlete size, you know. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. If you want more dates, look like the Rock. Yeah, don't look like a bodybuilder. Yeah. I think that's the, the line is you want to look like you have some muscle and you work out. Yeah, I think that looking good and close matters too. Like this has been the greatest victory of my retirement as I can buy clothes. Yeah. And I shop at the nicest establishments target. Great place. Nine dollar t-shirt. When. So yeah, you could, I couldn't go to Target before. Oh, yeah. They didn't have clothes of fit, me. And so it's like, I'm, I wore tents all the time. People like all you really like baggy shirts. I'm like, I just look like crap and everything. So these are cheap. So they're gone. Like, I think, and I think of the extreme version of that. I think of Sean Clarita where he has this like, who actually stole my clothes. Yeah, he's got like a forex shirt on. It's coming down to his knees and they's got like a hoodie on over that. And if you didn't know any, by the way, you'd be like, is that guy obese? Does he have a health condition? Like if you didn't know he was a bodybuilder, you just saw him covered up in clothes. They're like, oh man, that's a very fat man over there. You know, you know, you know what I love about Sean too, which now we're way off top of it always is he's never, ever, not in shape. Oh yeah. So it's like, even the booth he wears t-shirts. And he would he peel down, and Dino's the other day. I mean, I already knew, but I was still like damn. Like he doesn't have an ugly off season. He has a beautiful off season. Like everything just gets rounder. And yeah, he's a little softer, but I would never use that three letter word. I would use on myself all the time. You know, fat. Yeah, never. I mean, he looks fantastic. So I love that about him though, because at the end of the day, it kind of tough the subject. That's, that's when you know you love this. Is it, it doesn't even cross your mind if people like it. Yeah. I was telling Nicky about this just two nights ago that I really did enjoy hearing people say negative things in public. It's because you're in shape. You just humanly want for that. It's gross. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And you're like, yes, that's what I'm looking for. And you know, and the one thing I will add to help those who do care is my track record does prove that there are women at like, muscle. So you should be fine and you will find in the industry. I think that it's a helpful thing because a lot of people maybe it's not that a lot of these women love muscle, but they want someone that understands their lifestyle. So it is easier in that regard to have somebody who gets what you're doing and and truly supports it. And the right person in the industry, keyword, then you guys can combine and things get pretty little easier at a function. I think, but that's just me. So they do exist. But I think at the end of the day, fellas, if you don't have a personality or a very big wallet, you will struggle. And so we've got a bunch of stuff here. I don't know if I'm going to read this whole question because it's like a paragraph. I'm going to try to sum it up and it's from Brandt. And he says, he actually says, so last five minute crew, friend of Ron and annoyance of dusty. Do you know, Brandt done? This is name. What's what it says on here? He says annoyance of me. Yeah, he says annoyance of dusty here. Oh, I don't agree with that. Go ahead. OK. OK. He says question, how do I push my coaching services on people, advertise my business without being one of those annoying, cringy, higher me in change your life, kind of guys? He says, I've been training for 17 years, competing for 12 and coaching competitively for the last, composing, excuse me, competitive athletes for the last nine. I believe that I really do have what it takes. See, and what I'm doing comes to helping others. He says, what he's terrible at advertising, coaches 1 to 3 competitive bodybuilders a year in a handful of lifestyle people. But he would like to increase those numbers significantly. He says he does work a real full-time job in the currently only has a personal IG account. That was basically more or less what he said. Got it. First off, I hate that I got him thinking he annoys me. I'm like, man, I got a re-establish something. I'm like, oh, he's saying he is. No, you're not. You know what Scott, I think I would like, I'd like to get your take first because I want to hear how you, how did you go about building? Because he's already doing it, which I know you were a little bit. So how did you take it to the next level where it became full-time of the podcast? Wow. So the podcasting was just a means of advertising for my coaching initially. That's really what it was. But all you have to do is invest every waking hour into a podcast and wrangle in a bunch of really cool people from the bodybuilding world like Dusty and Rod and everybody else and just dedicate your life to churning out podcasts. You never have to advertise a day in your life. That's all you have to do. Easy. Just trade your life for it. Yeah. When I first started coaching, it kind of just snowballed. It was one of those things where I had people asking me questions and I was giving away advice for free. And I actually remember all the way back, heavy muscle before heavy muscle radio, no bowl radio with Dave Palombo and John Remod. Oh yeah. And even on one of his tie rates and he was saying, if you, you know, you want to be in the industry, then you know, just keep doing what you love and eventually it'll start to make money for you. That was okay. And honestly, at that time, I was sitting on my couch and I was thinking to myself like, I remember sitting in my apartment, playing it on my computer which was sitting next to me, I think it to myself, okay, I'm going to do that. And I just started, I was answering questions on the message boards and I just kept answering questions and kept answering questions. And then I started my own thread that ended up getting sticky at the top of the board. And it ended up getting thousands and thousands of replies. And then a company reached out to me and said, hey, do you want to answer questions at our website? And we'll pay you. Per month, we'll pay you money to answer questions. I was like, oh, yeah, I'd love to do that. And all the while, I still had people asking me outside of that. And I realized I got to a point. It was kind of unintentional. Like I just was helping knowing eventually, this will somehow work into something. I got to a point where I knew that I couldn't keep doing this at the level I was in last I was making some sort of money. And so I just, from there, I started charging people. And I charged very little. I still don't charge enough. I'm going to be completely honest, you might write, sir, always like historically lower than other peoples. And I know that I undervalue what I do. But over time, that just built and built and built. And then like I said, 2015, I decided to start a podcast. And part of it was because I just freaking love bodybuilding. And I wanted to be able to do a show my own way. And it kind of just grew from there. And honestly, I don't advertise now. It's always been word of mouth. And if he's coaching a few people, I guess my advice to him would be just, you know, you don't have to shove it down people's throat. I would say just he's got a full-time job, right? So it sounds like he's doing something good. He says he's a full-time job for a chemical company. My thought would be, sell those too. Oh, not those chemicals. Oh, that's something. That's not part of the story. That's not part of the story. It's like a pyramid. Nevermind. Thank you, dear. I have to be very willing to be smarter. That's a great wife. Yeah, I don't know, Dusty. Should I explain any other aspects of that? Because I know, you actually covered things I wasn't thinking about. That are great. And the reason that I deferred is because I didn't, I do the same thing. I just have found that over time people, I don't, and I've actually thought about it. I should, I should for my clients, which I probably will. Clients, I'm going to start doing this. I'm going to start offering a discount on referrals for there monthly. Oh, okay. Because I've never done that. And I just thought it was that now. Yeah. Because they do refer people because they're just their great clients. And literally during this conversation, I'm like, oh, I should probably say thank you. And that's a great way to do it. Because yeah, if you give someone a good experience with this is, for me, you've got prior to having any name in the industry at all. Yeah. I got into coaching because I coached my first wife for a show because we were poor. Yeah. And I did it. And she did awesome. Yep. And then I had like three or four girls from the show. And I, it was old school. You know, I was backstage helping her because she needed my help. She didn't know what to do. So I mean, you're doing the whole thing. So then people see her do well. And then they ask, how old do you coach? People sure. And then I took those four girls for free. And I trained them. Yeah. And then it same as you went on for about two years where I didn't make a penny. But it's having fun. I was a school and I have a job. And finally, as I go, I should probably charge. So I started charging. And that was that. And I actually stopped coaching for a few years. I really couldn't tell you why I would have done that. But I did. I was busy running the businesses doing bodybuilding. And I could have handled all three. And the version of me that's alive now would have never stopped. Yeah. Because I still enjoyed it. It was never a hindrance. You know. And I think that that is probably the biggest thing that I would suggest is, make sure you're doing it because you love doing it. Because when I speak to people who work with friends. And I think that's a very common thing as they can tell that their coach loves coaching. They're invested in it. They're enjoying it. It's not just the money. When Ron and I travel, I've never asked clients for an extension of time. I'd give 24 hours. Got married 24 hours. Travel 24 hours. And they can show 24 hours. It doesn't stop because I like doing it. Vacation. I don't stop working. Yeah. I just when you like doing it, I think people catch that. So make sure you're doing that. And I think it'll all just kind of work itself out. I mean, if he knows what he's doing. If nothing else locally, it'll build. Oh, nice jacket. Thank you. Wow. Yes. Only a few people have that gem. Is that true? Yeah. There's probably 30 of those in the world. You can see Arnold. Yeah. That's only us. Only those on the team. If you catch what I just said, Scott. I like that. I like that. That's my focus. There we go. All right. I wanted to add more thing dusty. Yeah. So just one other thing I did was I didn't have the confidence at first to coach. I felt like, you know, should I really be taking people's money? There's people that have done this a lot longer than me. I always made sure that I worked with people that were at a level that I could help. Meaning I wasn't like shooting for a Mr. Olympia. You know, to out the gate, right? It's like, I knew like, hey, I've gotten in shape before. You've never gotten in shape. Okay. Then I could probably help you do that better than you can help yourself. Right. That's how I started. And then one of the steps I took to give myself confidence was while working with that. Some of them in company and answering questions for them. We set up a program where I took on 10 people in coached them for free. And we did a blog, a weekly blog on their progress. And I said exactly what I was doing. Basically, like, everybody might quote unquote secrets, you know? Yeah. I said, these are, this is what we're doing. This is where we're changing the food. This is where we're adding these compounds. This is what's going on. Just educating people along the way. And I ended up doing that all the way through. Showed the before's and after's. Everybody got to follow along and learn along. I did it again for free. And then the third time I said, all right, now I'm going to charge. I got 10 people. I charged them all 10 up front. And I said, this is what we're going to do for the next 16 weeks. And then I used that money as like a nastag so that I could tell my full time job that I was quitting. Ah, that's a good moment. Because I thought like that way I've got these 10 people. That's, you know, I already had other clients. But as I've got these 10 people, I've got this project to work on. And now I've got at least a few months red paid ahead of time. I got a little bit of a, what I was doing before man, I couldn't save money. Like I literally was leaving, I was thinking about it recently. I was living like month to month, you know? Yeah. No, it's a scary thing. I love that you shared that too because that's a, that was just genius marketing, whether you meant to or not. I mean, genius. And one more thing, because I, I like to push this out there for people is, everyone complains, oh, you do a show and you think you're a coach. Well, no one's making them hire these guys. I don't mind if people want a coach. I don't, you know, you should know your role, like you said, because I can tell you this much right now. And any coach who's different than me, hats off to you. But when I look back at what I used to do, I was like, wow, I had a lot to learn. Yeah. And I learned it by doing it. And I learned it by being around other people. We really enjoy looking down our nose of people who are where we used to be. Yeah. I love like, when did I start? Huh, I had done a couple shows. I didn't know everything. The difference was, I think the one caveat to that is, I didn't claim I knew everything. I claimed I was a beginner. I told people I was learning. And that's why it was free. Or that's why it was discounted. Yeah. And my good client, Jesse Chase, I would see, you know, him from, he gets on here and gives us way too much money all the time. Thank you, Jesse. Great guy. But he actually came to me a few six, eight months ago. And said, hey, I've had a lot of people ask about coaching and I tried to direct them to the to you, but they can't afford it or they, you know, they really would rather work with me because they know me and I just said, I don't know. And long story short, I was like, are you crazy? You love this. Do it. Yeah. And he's been turning out results. I see the pictures and you can see the passion in the client. And it's not like look what I did. It's look what they did. And it's just really cool to see. So if you are getting started, don't be afraid to take that jump and understand that anyone who hates on you who cares. Yeah. He went out and slay that he's doing awesome. And he also knows because he's a solid guy. If you ever got stuck, he has my phone number. Yeah. Yeah. Because I have people's phone numbers. If you think that Ron and I have never discussed a situation with a client, like, hey, I ran into this and I've done this and this. Am I missing anything? Yep. We have, I've talked to Chris that way. So there's nothing wrong with getting started and knowing that you've got people around. I mean, I would call Scott. You know what I mean? You know that's Scott. That is the beauty of this industry when you get in with the right people. And that's how you learn. And you know, growing, I'll ask people what things that went well. This went really good. Have you done this before? You know what I mean? Yeah. Because you just sometimes something goes really well. And you're like, huh. So just something to think about to all of you that are in there because I know there's so much hate spewed on people beginning new businesses and it just makes me laugh. Because there's more than enough people who want to get in shape and want help to go around. So I encourage people just make sure you're becoming an expert. That's my big thing when people say, what's the first step coming good coach might be an expert? Truly, immerse yourself. And when you're doing well, don't stop learning. Don't start taking courses. Don't stop researching. Like, we are addicted to that side. Because the reason I can't watch a lot of TV, I much rather go out and expand what I love doing. And it just means I listen to a lot of stuff and read a lot of studies because it's fun. That's what the podcast is all about. You know what I mean? We have so my thought with putting all of this together was that I wanted to be able to bring together a bunch of different perspectives, all people that I respect, all good people that I could that way. Because here's the thing, I could listen to you talk all day, dusty and at the end of the day, I might learn a lot, but I'm only getting one person's perspective. And I found at least for myself the way I could educate myself most is learn from you, learn from this guy, learn from this guy, take it all and kind of see what. And kind of see, well, what are the common themes here? What worked for him, what worked for him? What's going to work for me? You know what I mean? Yep. Love it. Love it. All right. We've got a bunch more stuff here. You set me this video. Can we throw this video up? You set me up? Oh, yes, I love this. I love this. I love this. Let's see if we can roll this in. Seren, do and kick ass and lift weights and have fun and watch what good things happen. Instead of like every rep I have to focus on this and everything I have to do this and I have to write this down. And if I'm not hitting them, I had too much fat today. I got a couple of carbs. I was like, just work out. And eat food and you'll really, really love this sport. I like that too. It's good. Yeah. And I feel like that's a new perspective. That's, it's, I'll call it like the same. So look effect. Because you know what I mean? Like that's kind of where he's coming from. And I love seeing that this is coming back in bodybuilding because there's been so much as Ron would call it the spreadsheet bodybuilding that's been happening. It's been happening for the last four or five years now, you know? Yeah. That's why I sent it to you because I saw this morning. It just made me smile because I thought back to when I started bodybuilding. And we've talked about this for our own ways. Everyone's time too much. But it's like, you went to the gym and you were like, how can I kill my biceps today? Yeah. It was there. Like there wasn't a lot of like thought in the beginning. And then it was, you got to eat to grow. And I was like, well, then I'll eat everything. And it, you know, obviously, I'm not suggesting that's the best route. But I will tell you that I had a lot of fun, which is the reason I'm still in the game. Yeah. And it's also how I found DC trainer. I love that he mentioned I got to write everything down. And the reason I love that is because I loved the scoreboard. The moment I was introduced to a logbook, I was like, oh, man, I played hockey. I win today. I won that exercise. But if that's not you, then don't do that. You know, I mean, I've had to remind people, and I know full odds been really good about this during And as career as well, it's saying, I never said you should do this. I'm just saying this is what I do. And I want people to understand that more and more because at the end of the day, the perfect plan that you hate doing will give you less results than an OK plan that you love and you won't quit. Yeah. Because eventually when you quit, the perfect plan, it all comes to an end. So you really should make sure you're enjoying that process. And I feel like when we had a lack of information back in the day, some of the things that we did that were wrong, it was because we didn't have a place to look for an answer. And now all we have is answers being puped at us. No, it stopped. And it's the only way to do it. That's my favorite thing is these the absolutes that go on. Yeah. I mean, the amount of people who have tried to use Sam to get themselves some cloud just by putting him in a video. And I'm like, what is why are we hammering this? Like who cares? Because my answer is always the same. Look at him. Like same thing with someone who's, I used to look at Branch Warren and I think to myself when I was a kid. Like I think that something would snap in my body if I trained like that. But if it wouldn't, I probably would try it because it worked so well for him that I'm curious if it would work for me. Yeah, you know what I mean? Or on the flip. A lot of guys get success with like super slow training. Oh yeah, I have an attention span of a goldfish. I'm not going to do it. It's too long. I can't wait five minutes for a wrap. I'm bored. I forgot where I was. I'm out. You know what I mean? So what would happen if you would just try your train together? I would bring him to the dark side. Oh, no. Actually, here's the great thing though. Justin is a perfect example because I don't think he trains too slow. I think he trains flawlessly. Oh, he does. You know, and I didn't know what you meant. I mean super slow because I feel like he's like, oh no. I mean by standard like average standards, I would say his negative is at least our. For your control. Yeah, control. Not like like for example, if you're going so slow that I can't watch your real. Oh, yeah, because like I looked away and I got a drink and you're still on that wrap. That first. You just bored. And I don't mean I'm not judging your real. It's just I don't want to do that. Justin's another perfect example because here's what I love about him. You can't argue it works. I mean, great. But he's also the first one that'll, you know, see a video of someone like me. I'm like doing a bent road just yanking it all over the place. And he's like great set. Yeah. He doesn't care. And he doesn't think to him. I promise you he will he will comment if we put this up. He doesn't think if he trained my way his back would be better. Right. No, of course that. I would suck either way. No, you know what I'm saying? Like it's it's very key that people get that through their head and. And in fine like you you had said earlier and it was like it was ringing in my mind. Like final works for you, but not just physically works, but that you enjoy. Yeah, because that's the that's the thing. And I think sometimes we forget that because just because branch Warren train that way doesn't mean you should. Ronnie Coleman doesn't look the way he does because he trained that way. Because he trained intensely, I will definitely say is why he looks like that and his genetics and all these other things. But I bet if he trained intensely in a different fashion. He would still be a freak. It's still for him. Yeah. So many people in back when I was getting started and I know you've been here. I'd have someone go fill he doesn't train his back like that. But Mike they still are you suggesting did if I train like fill he thought would look anything like him. Like I appreciate the compliment. I do, but it's not how it works. You know, so you know, just something to think about with the process and and I love that might put that out because I do think you're right. Sam is putting an impact on the industry that's awesome because like. Are you having fun because Sam is having fun. You weren't there when we trained that night. But I'm telling you man, like it was so funny because you come in there and you know, I just met Sam that weekend. And it's just a bunch of dudes who like to work out. And I love it because you go into a gym and you quickly realize I'm not training next to. I'm not so soon to be five time in Salimpi. Ian, I'm not I'm not I'm trying to be a bunch of people who like to work out. Right. It's it like everyone doesn't no one has names anymore. Once it's gravity and a closed locked door and some loud music. You know, and I think that that is what's awesome. That's why half the people in that room are retired and are still killing themselves. I love that. Yeah, you know, so very cool. Hey, we had some other stuff. I had a personal question. I've been meaning to bring this up for like three weeks now. And the my water bottle reminded me of that because this is Trader Joe's water. You guys ever go to Trader Joe's and if so, what are your three favorite foods from Trader Joe's? If you go. Of course I'll show you those number one. Okay. This is going to be funny because the foods are all over the place. But first thing is they've got those cubed garlics in the freezer section. Oh yeah, yeah. Little squares and you can get them at any store. But there's our better because they got a little plastic cover that snaps back on. Oh, okay. Very key when I put it back in the freezer. I just had a whole two week debacle with the same brand. But just had like a little like one of those like slide up clear tops. Yeah. They didn't stay on. Oh, it's like yeah, like cellophane shit. Sorry. So those. Yeah. Also, little secret of the pros don't tell everyone. But if you will have their dark chocolate expresso being covered like chocolate that are by the front door and little square, yeah, yeah. You have a few of those during your workout. It's like eating off of a square plate during your workout. Absolutely. Between sets. You just pop a couple of your mouth. No, I will get to the gym and I actually like keep them when the bag. I just have a few like I'm like it's a leg day. It's a four, it's a four bean day. You got it. You count them out for legs. Okay. Yeah. You know, you go up with that. So that's a great gem from there everyone. And it lasts a long time. So don't worry about that. Okay. And yeah, the science says in the off season that increases. Gains for sure. All right. And then the last thing. Let's see if there's so many. Oh, if so many good things there. Peachhips. Peachhips. Yeah. Like the little, they're like the green. It looks like a green bean kind of like this. But it's just a little chip delicious. Google it. Google it. I'm going to do that right now. They're awesome. So what are your things while you're Googling? Oh, that I can't get you. Google awesome. You can't get both. This is where Ron comes in because I'm in the background. Yeah, you're just looking him up. But he's got a story about like, oh, yeah, one time I ran into you. I could say people he would talk about where they came from. He's like, well, actually. Yeah, yeah, he would have that or he would like have ran into somebody. You know, a good pro or something. It treated you. You know what? I actually remember a time. This is a funny. I forgot about a story about Ron. So we were at Trader Joe's together. Is this it? By the way. That's it. Okay. Amazing. So the story. It's like a chip. And the cool thing about this story is knowing a check the validity. But we were actually walking out of Trader Joe's and during the AIDS was there. And he didn't want any more of his peach chips. He said, hey, Ron, do you want to see this? And once again, he said, no. I was like, not. I don't like peach chips. I don't want peach chips. I don't want your salmon. I was like, I just ate, you know, and I would have. But I had about it for like three months. And he still thinks about it. The closest I ever came to firing Ron during Nicky's prep was that story. That was, yeah, he's lucky. Let me put it that way. He's lucky. Very. All right. Let me see what else we have here. Oh, I wanted you didn't even give me your three. Oh, that's right. I'm supposed to talk to you. I forgot about that part. Man. So here's the thing. I forgot about Trader Joe's until a couple weeks ago. It's kind of like, you're not going to go to Trader Joe's to get all your normal stuff. You know what I mean? It's like, oh, no, when you go to Trader Joe's, it's like a special event. And for us, I'm going to tell you, man, Victoria and I, one of our dates is going to the grocery store. I don't know why, but we enjoy grocery stores when she first came here. Like the first day, we went to like three different grocery stores. We like we're getting snacks from all these different places. They got, I don't know. It's just our thing. It's just our thing, man. In fact, what I'm telling you, we're letting everyone know that you're rich right now, though. Yes, with this administration, shopping being your enjoyment tells me you have too much money. I bought a ball of water dusty. All right. That was $72. You used to meet 38 cents. Trader Joe's is pretty cheap. That's the other thing I like about this. Oh, yeah. This is our pretty reasonable. You get their meats are pretty good and they're not that expensive. I like to look at their cheese section. They've got a good cheese section. Get some like maybe a weird like funky like extra extra sharp cheddar from Ireland or something. Right. And then I get apples. They always have really good fruit. So we'll get apples and then maybe they'll be like, or you sort of. The apples is that where the date apples come from. Yeah, they sure do. And then maybe like some other fruit, you know, some other weird fruit that like we've never seen before. And we'll buy that banana. Yeah. And then we'll get like the little bouquet of flowers because Victoria likes to put those out. You know, and then we have flower the next week or so. I did try to get I forgot something that we have to add. Oh, what's that? I'm going to look something up. So you have grilled peppers with onion. They're like actually have like grill marks on them. They're frozen. They're all you cut up. Yeah. Great for when you're like, because I like to just mix peppers in with like chicken or chicken and rice or steak and rice. You just like pour some of them out of the bag and you've got red green yellow peppers and onion that are actually like grilled. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Dude, everybody who's ever watched my YouTube scene those 100 times. I use them and everything. So who I can't believe I didn't forget that. So I got this protein bar and I've been dreaming about it ever since I have to go back and get another one. Have you seen these? No. Oh, they're so good. I don't even know what the macros are. Effect them in the local. Let's see. So you're getting 18 grams of carbs three of them are fiber. One of them is sugar. Okay. Five sugar alcohols 20 grams of protein and eight grams of fat. So that's not bad. Dude, it tasted like candy. It was like really freaking good. So I'll be checking those out for sure that sounds great. That was Trader Joe's too. This is Trader Joe's. Yeah. Yeah. And they aren't that expensive. Yeah. They aren't that expensive. Let's see. Amazon. Well, like three bucks a piece. Two bucks a piece. Yeah. They're like three bucks. Yeah. I'm here for all of $27 to $28 on Amazon. So excuse me, I didn't know they had them on Amazon. But yeah, so that was my number one for those things. And then the fruits, like I said, and then they have these little, it's like a, it's fast food basically. They have these like little, little mini taco things. And it's like a hard shell. It's like a corn. It looks like a little taco. But it's only that big. And they're frozen and they have like chicken in. It's like a corn tortilla on the outside. And you put like a dozen of them in your air fryer. And they get like all crisp up and stuff. Those are, they're really good. Little sauce. That's kind of awesome. They get that mango sauce on the have. And you're good. Oh, yeah. I know that one. Yeah. That I know. So this is my. Oh, I'm like planning a trip to Trader Joe's. And I leave the country tomorrow. I got to knock this off. Oh, yeah. I'm like planning a trip to Trader Joe's. And I leave the country tomorrow. I got to knock this off. Oh, yeah. You're leaving the maro, right? Yeah. How many flights is it? Just to just easy. Easy. What's your layover? I'm only, I think it's like an hour and a half, which is kind of what you want. Yeah. You want a short layover because your, or I should say, you want a long enough layover that you're not risking a mess. Right? You know what I mean? Because we've all been there. I'm actually looking at it real quick. Boom. Do you know where exactly two hours in, in Munich. So okay. So you're flying all the way straight there. And then just a little hop over from Munich. Yeah. I always do that because I go from Charlotte. So it's always like either direct or like quick and then a, you know, pedal jump. That's fine. Quick. That shot. Yeah. Doesn't bother me at all. What's the time on that? The first flight is eight hours and 40 minutes and the second is one hour. Okay. Good 10. But you know what's weird? Scott is. I think because of the lifestyle that we have, I don't mind the flights. I like I get in like a zone out mood. Yep. Me too. I'm just so chill the whole time and then we land like even if I don't sleep. I'm fine. Yeah. You know, I watch. I got a download some so I'm, I'm banging out game of thrones now. Oh, yeah. So I didn't watch that. I've never seen it. Have you watched it before? No, just, so I just start. I finally committed to it. I like to wait until things are long over. Right. Right. And I finally, it was like a, it was like a coming to like a adulthood. Yeah. I came to Nicky one day and I was like, I'm ready. Which is like, for what? I'm like, game of thrones. And she just had this proud look on her face and she's like, we will start tonight. And we've just seen it, right? Oh, yeah. She actually almost didn't date me because I hadn't. Yeah. You realize that you and I are the only two people that haven't watched game of thrones. Yeah. I'm the only one now because you're already. You're the, yeah. And I'm in the, and apparently I'm in like the heart of it. I'm like three quarters away through season three. Okay. And I mean, I know everybody. I've got a new girlfriend. I mean, there's a lot going on. I'm allowed. So it's cool. Yeah. I talked to my friend over. So if you watched the gentleman. No. It's good. It's, so Dave Crossland told me it was originally a movie. But it's a TV show. And, um, oh, what's the guy's name? The director is Guy Richie. If you know him. Uh-huh. Like very violent, you know, very violent kind of crazy stuff. Nice. It's, it's a good show, man. Like you, I'm gonna see you. I think it's only one. That's, I know. So it sucks though. But it's so good. If there's that, and we finished Fargo. Fargo is so beyond good. I'm gonna tell you. It was probably my favorite TV show I've seen in a long time. Like I was sad for it to end. Oh, you're like a lost member of the family with that one. That's nice. Yeah. Yeah. It's season four. I think it might have been my favorite. And they cover, like, the Italians versus the blacks in, like, Midwest gangs. Right. It's kind of, and they, you kind of want everybody to win in everybody to lose at the same and it's in, like, the 1950s, 40s, 50s. Right. And they just, the era feel of it is so good. You're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, I'm like, I'm like, you're like, you're like, Chris Rock is, is like the head, gang guy of, of, oh, no way of the black crew. Yeah. And he is so good. He's so good. I can't even see that roll. I'm not gonna have to check that out. That's great. And you don't have watch that on my plate. Can I buy all the season life today? You can, and you don't have to watch them in order. Like, the, each season, they, there might be like a little piece that, that, that, like, this guy, like the first season is about a top. This is far go. Fargo. Yeah. So the first season has a storyline. The second season is like the girl's dad when he was a younger cop. So it's like back in the 70s. So it's like, it does, it, it ties in. Yeah. It's all over the place you don't need to have seen it. But anyway, I thought you said it. I forgot completely that we were on a show just now. For, for audio. For audio people, I am putting up a picture of Nicky. She just competed over the weekend. And she looked, for it amazing, man. Yes, it came together. Awesome. That's an iPhone quality for anybody to keep it score. Yeah. It was, it was an awesome weekend for sure. And you'll love this. But Ron brought her into the show. Obviously everyone knows went flawlessly. The big thing that she struggled with was the water pole because we did not do that. She drank like a little over two gallons Friday night. Okay. And Friday throughout the day, obviously, and normal food. Almost no changes aside from just slowly bumping up the carbs the last three or four days. Okay. And then on Saturday, she ate one meal. And went to pre-jaging because we always eat a meal in the morning and then there's a long long gap before our second meal. And that is what she did for the show and it came out flawlessly. And yes, she got her first win, which the interesting thing is, and it's tricky. But at this point in time with the women's physique division, my big hope was just that there was going to be someone she could compete with. Because what's happened is it's not a huge division to begin with. And those who have graduated at the next level have graduated. So they either graduate in term pro or they stay qualified. And so, you know, the odds of seeing another really good competitor or a handful of them at a qualifying show is pretty low. She competed against a lady who was in great shape. She looked real pretty. She looked really exciting. So, you know, just didn't have the muscle mass. But it was awesome to have her like on stage with someone that was good too, you know, so it was cool. And she, you know, the other lady, somebody who probably would have won almost any shows she could have entered. That's it. It was just that show, you know, so that was cool. And now six weeks before she can finally do what she's really excited with, which is. Going out, seeing if she can make a couple tweaks to be a little better. And then, um, just because that's immediately your goal. And then, uh, she's looking forward to the fact that now you're in shape and you get to experience dieting for six more weeks. Yeah, coming in a certain way. She was really excited because, you know, you haven't done this in five years. Yeah. And, and she already obviously saw that she looked better than ever before, but like how is she going to feel on stage. And it was actually amazing because, uh, she did her pre-judging, you know. And when she came out multiple people stopped her, that didn't know her. And we're like, you're different. Like that wasn't saying. And I was like, oh, I, because I thought, obviously I know that because I know the sport. But these are people who don't know her and don't know me. And I'm like, that's a good sign. And then, uh, when she did her finals routine, when she got done with it, Steve Payne was expediting at the show. And, uh, we're talking, she's the last, because I think the second to last was the last person on stage for the night. Because they had all the pros first, then the NPC, I think the one in left was maybe open body of a machine for females, but she may have already done it. And she did her routine. And as she was walking off, Steve Payne was like, that was amazing. And I think that's a good sign because as you know at the end of a show, like everyone's kind of tired. And he kind of got it. Yeah. Yeah. And so it was great. So she's looking forward to doing the next one. And obviously this show will be a big step up. There's going to be a lot of great competitors, which will be fun. But like we were talking on the way home from the gym today. And she's excited because she knows it doesn't matter the result. Because what she really wants to do now is take a year, put on some muscle and see what she can do with it. Well, as it being a goal again. Yeah. Because you know, she shared her post like, this was kind of a, she hadn't trained in years. I mean, she went to the gym, but just trained to, to be in decent shape and live life. And then, you know, give her take nine, a year ago, nine months, 12 months ago. I kind of, everything I do in this one more time. So she's excited to see what will happen and the nice thing with that. And I think more competitors need to think of is the result of your show doesn't change the work that has to be done. Yeah. So if she goes and wins and turns pro. Great. The things we need to do we need to do. If she goes and takes third because there's two girls better. Great. The things she needs to do, we still need to do. It doesn't change anything. I think people need to get away from being overly attached to that outcome. If they really love bodybuilding. Yeah. Yeah. What, what are you guys going to try to do over this next six weeks then? Like, what do you want to do to improve on what you guys already have? What she already has. So a couple little things. I want to work a little bit more on mind muscle connection on posing. Because there's certain things where you know, she'll move and I'll see it or muscle jump in a way. And I like, no, so I got her some exercises to do on just firing your muscle. You're foot on the ground, you're foot on the ground. You're foot seated like getting your brain to connect individual muscles. Yeah. So that you can pull them out. Because when it happens, you go from like, oh, you look great to hold. What was that? Yeah. So it's going to work on that because again, you got to remember, like, there's been no reason to do that. Right? You know, just going to the gym, just living life. So now it's just reconnecting that. It's going to be a big thing. And I think that'll light it up a ton. And the next thing is just, as you know, when you stay lean, things just keep getting better. They really do. We didn't use to see that because we used to get in shape for the show. And it all kind of came down to that least I did, you know, 15 years ago. You know, all came down to that moment. You got on stage and then it was over. And then you immediately went back into offices. And there wasn't like you continued to hold it and do another and another. So I think I missed out in at times earlier on because I hadn't figured that out yet. Yeah. So it'll be really cool. And I'm excited because it was surprising. I think anybody who. Who competes or has competed and stopped. It's actually really fun to just be like on the sideline. I was more like if we're going to put up her routine at some point on the Instagram. And I had to put my arm on a post to film because my hand was shaking, which made me laugh. Yeah. Because I don't get nervous for anything. Like, why did the USA is for the first time? I'm like backstage joking laugh. I don't care. And I'm like, so this is what nervous is. I always wondered. Like, I mean, my hand was shaking. Like it's a worst filming you've ever seen. And I'm like, huh, new feeling. I am quite nervous right now. So it was super fun. But I think that more people who get, you know, it's like when Victoria, you know, got her lifetime achievement award. Like you were losing your mind and so much higher than her. And I'm sure she was ecstatic. Don't get me wrong. But it's like it's different when it's your person. You're like, oh, yeah. Like this is crazy. And that was why I put my post to the last night because the reception from people was like, so crazy to me. You know, you're like, wow, like these people really. I mean, I might, because we were busy. Like we got done with the show. We hang out with friends. We went to dinner. I got tired. We went to sleep. And I never got a chance to post. I had about no exaggeration. 25 to 30 matches. What happened? And I'm like, I just answering individually because I never chance to like get on and post you. Yeah, I just went to her page. I went to her page and looked at her stories earlier on. And I could see, oh, yeah, she's got this. And then I knew from there. So yeah, so it was cool. Very cool. But I did want to bring up one thing. That the bothered me about the show. And the show first off was phenomenal. Tyler judged it. And I haven't really had a lot of experience with him. I like him more and more. And I'm retired. So I don't have to kiss us. And I never did when I did. But he, the way he runs the show is phenomenal. The way he speaks to competitors is phenomenal. He's just a very blunt, you know, because he's a hard core wrestler. Like he's not afraid to hurt your feelings. If you're slack enough, like, you know, and I love that about him. It's very, you know, cutting drive. But the thing I didn't like whether show that has nothing to do with him was. We still have promoters treating female bodybuilding and women's physique like the redhead of stepchild. And what I mean by that is he about all these classes. Okay. And every division, I should say all these divisions has class winners and overall winners. Okay. Every single division except for two. Two divisions, no overall winner, no nothing. Now, I think a lot of people might say, well, there's not that many competitors. Well, I think there were seven figure competitors. There was no overall. Yeah. And you have to understand, I know what those trophies cost. They cost nothing. In the grand scheme of what I spent this weekend, paying for friends to come to the show, paying for my kids to come to the show, and during the show, you can afford to spend 50, $70, if you're more trophies, you know, if these big things. And the reason I care couldn't just serve everyone knows, it's not about Nikki winning the show. We don't have a single trophy in our house. She will not hang her metal. It's just not our deal. But it's just the perception that if you want something to grow, you don't treat it as lesser. You know, and I think it's important that people realize that what has started to happen in a sport is you're doing figure, right? And you love to train, you like to get, you know, move some weight. And all of a sudden they're telling you a little too big for figure, sweetie, right? But good news. We got women's physique. And she's like, oh, sweet. She moves up to women's physique. She got a new home. And she's cranking and she gets to do what she loves to do and grow and put on muscle and these things. And then some of those girls hit a point where someone says, Nudge, nudge, I think you do better if you went to open bodybuilding. Yeah. So there's a home for you called Women's Bodybuilding. Well, if we're going to expect to see the pro levels continue to grow, we can't cut them off at the knees at the amateur level. Make it exciting. Maybe people know that you want to see it because I can tell you right now, I was in the crowd. And when done properly, a lot of people were very excited to watch a good women's physique competitor put on a show. You know what I mean? If you've ever watched Dreja on stage, you understand you don't want women's bodybuilding to die. Yeah. Yeah. Imagine never seeing her compete at the level she is now. She would have never developed her physique to the level it is now. You know, had that sport not been here for her. But we're no home for her without it. Right. Yeah. And when think of how she's impacting the sport and other things and you know what's funny. And it's a very nice show. I only messaged one person about this and it was her. Yeah. Because I just, and again, I want people to say it's not about Nikki. I don't care if she wouldn't have won. I would have said the same thing because she went out. She got her thing and then she came around and went, what are you doing? She was, oh, there's no overall for us. And I was like, weird. Okay. So I just found that interesting and I think a lot of promoters should consider it because if I'm in the crowd, and I don't know anything, then I'm like, oh, those are the other divisions are the ones that are popular for the ones they want to support. You know what I mean? Because it was a whole thing. You got to remember, too. Like, so the overall winner was getting one of those bags that are really popular and a trophy thing. And most of the stuff is donated by the sponsors. Right. Yeah. I think that you should, you should definitely have that steam attention. It's not like Nikki didn't pay as much to do the show. Yeah. And that's what I want people to get. And I will say, and just to drive this home, the show was phenomenal. Yeah. In the way they ran it, I mean, she by winning. She won. She got a, one of the things that was part of her win was a completely Blinged out suit from one of the people. That's a grand. Yeah. So I want to make sure people understand, I'm not hammering the show. The show was phenomenal. It's just a small detail that I think goes a long way in remembering that we're trying to grow all of the sports. Because they all kind of feed each other. You know what I mean? And that's a beauty because I don't think that, you know, that like, all, you know, Macaylor or somebody said, I'm going to become a female bodybuilder one day. Which is what you're not about. You know, she just loved the train so much and they said, hey, if you take, keep doing what you love to do, you're going to do pretty decent in women's bodybuilder on an A.K.A.B. One of the best in the world. Yeah. Like, and so she had a home and she gets to keep doing what she wants to do. Because I can tell you what would happen if not. And I don't know this, but this is my thought. I think that she would have left because she loves to train. Why don't she let us compete? Yeah. Yeah. So we wouldn't, we wouldn't get blast to watch her do what she does. Like we are now. We wouldn't know, Drea. You know what I mean? So I really hope that we can kind of get that message out because I can tell you, and I feel the same thing about fitness. I love watching fitness routines. I hate seeing that it's start to dwindle. And I was some of that just lack of people who are able to do that. Right. But you know, we should definitely be fanning the fire of all the divisions. That's all. Well, at least you can get beat up backstage. That's a move. Whoa. Yeah. Why? I'm saying about the show until after. So I gotta go to show this weekend. We'll see. Yeah. I heard all about that. That whole situation over in the UK. And I've always heard that that whole two-brow thing is shady. You know. Oh yeah. There's people that like, there's a lot of control stuff going on over there. I don't know. First Hannah and never met the guy who ran the thing. But everybody I know who's had anything to say about them hasn't had anything nice to say. That's for sure. There's what I will say when the Arnold disconnected from them overseas. Like that's it. Like there was a problem. And there was, there was, there were things I can't mention that I know about that. You're like, oh, this is shady. You know. And then seeing what's down. And I actually don't know the guy that this happened to. But I saw who was vouching for what kind of a person he is. And I'm like, yeah. It's very obvious that he didn't just go in there and look for trouble. And listen, I'm a, I got a decent ego with believing I can handle myself. And at no point do I go, oh, four giant men. I think I'll fight them. Yeah. Because you know, I just recently watched, you know, John Wick. Like, yeah. Like, you know. So I think it's important to realize that. And what I'm excited about is the IFBB did not hide behind it. They immediately posted it. Oh, yeah. They'll be, oh, yeah. They put a thing on their seats. They said, hey, we're investing in what happened. And I think we will see them gone. And I hope from my little bit of research that it helps the competitors over there at the amateur level have a new way to make it to the pros. Because from what I read and someone will correct me if this thing correct. And so, in some places it's the only way to turn pro is to deal with that circus. Yep. Yeah. That's like in the UK you have to go through two bros is that's their version. That's like their NPC. NPC. Yeah. So interestingly, they have so many organizations over their FedEx and Naba and a couple others. And, but two bros is the only way to get to the IFBB. And then even the IFBB guys were kind of like, Larry, when I was at the FedExpo, the IFBB guys, a lot of them didn't want to go there because they didn't. They were afraid that they wouldn't do well, you know, in place things. It wouldn't, politically wouldn't look good to be at another organization's expo. Oh, that's not it. Yeah, that's that's an interesting. We don't have any of that though. I wouldn't be surprised. But honestly, if it was like that here, if we had more competition, you don't I mean, like, but we don't have that. Yeah, I don't know. I'm just grateful for the way it is because you can I think for the most part in our inside everyone wants to see things get better. So yeah, quite some good thing. Well, we had a bunch of listener questions that we did not tackle today, Dusty. There's a there's a in a clips happening right now. Believe it or not. It's not fully yet. Let's check this out. I'm getting updates. Why don't you go check. I don't know if you're going to go look at it. Well, I want to, but here's the thing. This was 20 minutes ago right here. Yeah. And this is now. So it's coming. And I think I heard like three o'clock or something is when it's supposed to be. We got to tie this show out then on the next nine minutes. That gives you time to get there. All right. Let me see if we've got another do we have anything good. What about, uh, oh, I sent you one dusty and I want you to close on that one. I like that one. I was going to say maybe we don't have enough time to cover this one. But I suppose we shall. This is on the, uh, the Dexter Jackson episode. And he says, I just need Scott to take some hard positions. Not the for me personally middle ground spots. What is he what for me, dusty? I love that because, um, you know, my first thought, which I sent to you was Scott. Fine. What is, what is something besides Trader Joe's that you absolutely stand behind that you would say. And and that it can be covered on the show because the weapons behind you can't be covered on this show. Yeah, that's the thing. I mean, they technically can see that I don't want to get political. I try to not get political on the on the podcast because I feel like people who come here. They are coming here because they want to hear us rant or talk about, you know, all these different world things. I'll, I'll tell you what. I think that one thing I, and I will get a little political. I think that we are being controlled. You want me to get serious for a minute, guys? Yeah, really late on you. I, honestly, I genuinely believe that we are being controlled by every source of media that you consume, including this podcast. They are controlling us so that we can deliver the message that they want you to hear. Believe it or not. We added ourselves in certain ways. We, there's words that we don't use and we create a society that is then afraid to use those words because we're not using them. It's controlling. It really is. It's all a big sire up if you ask me, but they, I start saying stuff like that and it sounds, it sounds political and it sounds crazy. I guess I could have went with something really fun. Like, I'm all about McDonald's. I think McDonald's is great handbreakers. How about that one, Dusty? You don't, I feel like eating plastic. I disagree. I disagree on every person. There is, we can stop right there. He disagrees out of me. He didn't say it by opinion. He said, yeah, 100%. No, Dusty, you are wrong. No, everybody go through a phase where they, not every day, but they should go through a phase where they do it McDonald's for every day. So to make doubles, to medium fries, to apple pies, that's going to be your meal free, then a clean meal for, then train, just watch what your pumps are like. You are interesting take that I have. I cover with someone. So they're chicken nuggets. Like, we all know there's not like a lot of chicken and all these other factors with their nuggets. Yeah. And they're so good. They're so good. I don't get it. I don't get it. Oh, dude. So I do the, what's it called the Big Mac meal or something. What it is, it's it's it's two big Macs. No, that's such a different meal. No, this is the, so I get, so it's, it's 20, 20 of the nuggets, two cheeseburgers, two medium fries for like 15 bucks. Oh, so it's a nice deal. And then the big Mac version, the same thing, but there aren't that. So it's two big Macs, two fries. I forgot the other ingredients, but I like those big like meals for multiple people because I'm multiple people. Yeah, you got it. When you're going to McDonald's, you have to order enough food. They think it's for more than just you. They assume that you have somebody in the car that, you know, you're, you're, like if I go with Victoria, they assume like, oh, this is not great. You have to. He's not fat. He's sharing. No, no. He's fat. I like that. That's a good plan. Also, you know, they have a great Sunday if it's ever working. So good to know. I had there something a long time. What about the McFlurry? Is that what you're talking about? You're making Flurry's great, but McFlurry is very expensive. I'm old school. It's just the vanilla soft serve with the chocolate. Yeah, the McFlurry is a little pricey. It's great. McFlurry's great. But I mean, the last time I took Nikki to get one, it was actually I think her last sheet meal this head and January. She got one and when it came out, I was like, how much was that? Like, I got a little judgmental of McDonald's for a moment. I'm like, just happened. So did she get to eat a cheat player a cheat meal after the show? Yeah, she said she had, I mean, you love this in only a competitive one to understand this. She didn't really craving anything terrible and she wanted something a little light. So she actually got like a shrimp salad. Okay. Caesar, like not like healthy, but just something that she like sounded really good. And then she got some pretzel bites, which were like these bigger pretzel things with like a cheese sauce to dip in that were great. And then we got some, I think pork belly nachos, which were great. So we went to, we went to culinary dropout. So very, very heard of it. Yeah, good, good little joint. So how do you taste it? Vains everywhere. I've been exploding. You know, obviously there's stomach felt bloated, but we're actually going to do, we did sushi last night and she'll probably do, we're going to do something clean for one more thing before I leave and then when I get back she's blocked back and I just tomorrow morning should be locked back in, but we got plenty of time. So having a little clean date night for for fun. And then that's it yard house. Our favorite easy go to you know, nice. So but we got to close this out because you need to get upstairs before we miss this opportunity. Yeah, and we're going to work on possibly a live episode next week, guys, right? Because you're, yes, oh yeah, we're in because yeah, we both get back on Monday. So we'll be good to go for Wednesday. So stay tuned for that guys. See, see, to show that I still have a couple, what do you call it reactions in the bank. So we'll use those. Well, you guys are gone. And yeah, yeah, it's just a little house housekeeping there, dusty like that. I like that. Well, one more time is always don't forget I'm mutant calm this week. We're using big Ron 20. If you can't stand Ron dusty 20 still works and remember like share, subscribe comment and Scott and it's all a sign up. It's all a sign up. Oh, and ring the bell. Whoo. It's a sign like this. So that's it and remember everybody. It's just bodybuilding.

What's up? The most top tart flavor in white soup. Yeah. Blueberry. Blueberry is like an emergency flavor. That's the gas station. And then blueberry strawberry and blueberry. When you buy the four flavor box that has strawberry cherry blueberry and chocolate, blueberries like the extra flavor that they filled the box with. Blueberry is the one that you mathed out and you decided it was still cheap. If you wait for the one that I'm just happy. The other one is the one you trade at school. Everybody welcome to It's Just Body Building. Big round parlor here with Dusty Handsha and the producer Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes, ring the bell. And of course, I am mutant.com. Go to I am mutant.com. Get your ISO surge. Get your all in. And everyone should get on the gear. Got to be on the gear guys. It's a must. It's a must. Okay. Coach. Yeah. Dusty. Oh, look at me. I can't get the number out of my head. First. Get the number. No more number. Codes are dusty and big run and use them with pride and keep us employed. You know, head office is always honest or like, if your code drops one more use. Part of the. I'm going to get you out of here. And Sean will get some good looking young kid with the 100,000 more followers than you to pimple that code. It's gone immediately. Gone immediately. Yes, exactly. So it's been a good week. I had a great week guys. I'm happy to be here. I managed to get out of my blanket a couple of times. Yeah. I'm dancing around. I was, it didn't rain very much this week. So I got out of my bike a few times and I watched my Bitcoin go up. But that's another story. Oh, yeah. I'm used to it. You know, I had a guy run that messaged me and he said it was so funny. Because I, he might have asked you to. He goes, what are you and Ron doing with with the crypto? I said, we never stopped buying the entire time. Yeah. He's like, oh my. Yeah. So the two years that you sat there. We were just like hammering away. But look to be money for nothing. And yeah, I texted Ron the other day in the middle of the night. Scott, there we go. First in the morning here. And I just said, go look at this thing. And the percent went up. I had a really good night sleep last night. Oh, yeah. I took a day. I took a day off work. I messaged Ditto. I'm not coming in today. I'm basking. Yeah. I just haven't touched my eye. I haven't touched mine. I just let it sit there and I try to forget about that. I'm not going to get my hands baby. That's what I need to do. You know, no, man. I've had an auto buy. I've had an auto buy set for like, I mean, it's been like five years. I've had an auto buy set every week. Okay. Bye. Bye. Bye. Every single week. I don't do anything about it and just auto buy. And so I don't want to, we're not going to, we're not crypto experts. We're not financial advice. I'm going to a little bit. But does he's like, for a few other bucks? I strongly feel that Bitcoin's going to be 150k by the end of the year. And I also was talking to or talking to a guy about just the math Bitcoin. It did already flip silver once for like worldwide market share, right, investment capital total. It's actually drop below silver now, but they're like almost tired. They're like 1.4 billion each, right? But it's past meta. It's past silver. It's going to pass Google. It's going to pass Microsoft. It's going to pass in video. And when it takes the top spot, which it eventually will, it'll eventually have more investment capital than a thing gold. When it takes gold, it'll be worth $750,000 a coin. Good. That will happen. So I just want to remind everybody you didn't miss the boat. Everyone, the things you miss about. You miss the boat. And obviously you miss the boat on the penny to $100, which is like the instant, you know, $1,000 a coin. I was telling people because I was getting Bitcoin then. And I was saying, guys, check this out. People didn't know how to figure it out. But there were people and they all thanked me like two years later. You know, I knew a guy that bought in 2012 and sold in 2016 for $160 million he cashed out and he gave his ex wife because it went through divorce. He gave his ex wife like, I think they settled a give it like 40 million bucks. After taxes. And then he told everyone. And he was on Facebook in 2012 saying, by Bitcoin. And I was like, what's he talking about? Yeah. Right. Yeah. I started into that one. 2016. And I got out most of it 2018. I think it was. Yeah. You got pretty good. Did. All right. You know, but I still I kept a little humble in that little stuff. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No. We're good. But yeah, just just remember like. People at sale, you miss the boat, you miss the boat. Well, you didn't miss a boat on the S&P 500. You didn't miss the boat on like all this stuff's going to keep going out for the next 20 30 years over time. So like think about that way. Gold is up to. I know you guys are good. Yeah. Gold. Gold's doing really good. It was like 2,200 an ounce at the beginning of the year. Now it's like 2,600. So and that's only going to be stable. You know what I mean? Yeah. So please remember. If you put it. If you keep a thousand dollars in your bank account in 10 years, it'll be worth. $800. Yeah. But if you buy something like some decent stocks or some Bitcoin or a gold. A K for more really nice, you know, Bulgarian A K like my friends got here. Then in in in 10 years, it might be worth at least a thousand dollars. And you didn't lose any money on an inflation. And in worst case, or it's worth 2000 or 3,000 or 4,000 or 10,000. And also important for those of you who don't know because I just had this conversation on the kid at the gym. So the other day, I was actually, I got a little aggressive in the gym. I was buying some and might get stuck for a minute. And I couldn't log off. I couldn't. So I was sitting there and watching it move in price while it's not going. If there wasn't a huge amount, the kid was like, what are you doing? And I told him. And he was like, oh, because I could never do the Bitcoin. Because I can't afford to buy one. I'm like, you don't have to buy one. I had someone asked me to say in question. Really? I was like, you can't get in. Now it's too much for a Bitcoin. Yeah, he thought you had to buy one. Like, you bought a coin and it was yours. As I know, you could put like $300 in. Yeah. He was like, I mean, mind blown. He thought that people were going in. He thought it was on my phone right then and there, I was like, you know, I'm just putting $72,000 real quick to be another one. No, let me get a couple of those. I'm like 100. You know, I'm doing a little better than I lead on. If I could just drop a quick 150k because I decided to. Yeah. I wish I did hold on to a little bit more. I did have, I think it was 12 or 13. And back. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. I'd be doing really good right now. But I'm being honest. Yeah. Yes. I didn't mean to derail, but I thought it was important to bring that up. I was like, oh, crap. I didn't know that. So it sounds like you had one too. Yeah. If you've got a couple hundred, I think the minimum is it like 200 bucks or something. Well, the smallest increment. The smallest increment is one Satoshi. Which is a decimal point with seven zeros and then a one. So that's the least amount of Bitcoin that can be like, that's one unit. Right. Right. I don't know what the minimum buy is. I mean, I'm most apps probably have like, because they got a little fee and stuff. You probably got to spend the least hundred bucks or 20. I don't know 50 bucks or something. Yeah. But yeah. Never too late to get in. Put that hundred bucks in and just see what happens. You won't be doing this one. Don't go to dinner on Friday night. Do this instead. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I don't really eat out anymore, guys. We sort of just stopped. We got two dogs. And now we just want to be home with the dogs all the time. So, I'm going to go to the next one. So, okay. What's the first question? Me? We had a topic. Dusty? We had a topic. You guys knew it. I guess. I'm letting you who's going to say it. All right. I'll roll it through here because I sent it to the little group. So I can, I got to read the, got to read the right up to make it correct again. But so here's what it was. I had a guy reach out and he wanted to help with gear. And that was his sole purpose of wanting to hire me. He said, I want to get you, I can do the diet, the train, all that. But I just want to hire you for gear. And so, I want to ask you guys if you actually think you'd justify hiring someone for gear. Because I just, I don't find it that secret over that complicated. So, I blew, I'm not told the kid to answer the question for anybody who's listening, that I would not steal from him. And take $250 to tell him how to do a cycle. Same crazy. Yeah. Yeah. I've had people reach out to and they say they want coaching. And like, okay, well, you know, sending your current situation, you know, because sort of like, get going and then I realize that they just want a cycle. Yeah. And, you know, I say to those people like, you can just Google this stuff, like you just do a simple cycle, like you literally ask, like, all these podcasts that are show, like just do a simple cycle. Just do like 10 weeks, a low dose test, like you don't, there's nothing magical about this stuff, you know, like you're not a high level guy that's got 10 different drugs coming in and out during and even that's too complicated. Some of those, some of the times during like a pro show contest preparation like that. Just like get some test and a membership like I was saying. And just like there's nothing really crazy about this and like that's the wrong, that's a bad spend. I know, maybe some coaches out there where that's like a big part of what they do is just write cycles for people, but I mean, my cycles are boring. Like boring, like it's like the least important part of what I talk about to clients. And you know, and I have to time, like I come from an era where the cycle was like, okay, well, what can you get that's good. Yeah. Right. Like, you know, like I go back to that story that Chris Hasido told me that one year when I was at the USA, and he had that one light, that one heavy weight that was a complete free. I can't remember his name and it might have been Frank. I can't remember anyway, he had this freaky heavy weight. He said, come look at this guy with me. So I walked down the hallway and the guy posed in the hallway and I was like, that dude's nuts and he's like, yeah, he should have seen him like seven weeks ago. He didn't look good. He was way behind and I go, what happened? Then he said, I finally just put my foot down and I said, I think your gear's shit. And he goes, really? And I said, yeah, you should be changing. You train hard. You got great genetics. You're not changing. You should not changing the way you should be. What can you get that is definitely real? Absolutely 100% pharmacy. And he was why I can get test prop and prescription like pharmaceutical out of our. And he said, Kate, drop everything and just take that. And then the next seven weeks, the guy just bucked. Just got him ready to get. So it's it's said I come from like that era where that was very common, right? And so there's no like, oh, this coach is going to tell me to take all my last coach have me taken 300 master on, but my new coach has me taken 400 master on. So you watch out. Yeah, the magic though, the magic literally. Having the education like the understanding to know what Chris knew, you know what I'm saying? Yeah, like that's where maybe having a coach comes in handy when it comes to gears to be able to say like, you know, something's not adding up here. So let's switch the plan, but how often does that happen usually it's rare. You know what I mean, most of the time everybody gets here that's at least going to be decent. It's going to mainly do what you want it to do. I'm with you guys 100% you know, and if you do watch our content enough, like we have shows that cover all this stuff. We have shows that are like, here's her first cycle. This is what you should do. You know, you have a show that is primarily about drugs. It's called drugs and stuff. In stuff. Yeah. And stuff. Yeah, the drugs is the first word. In fairness, so our show is called, it's just bodily and we rarely talk about it. Good point. Yeah, I mean, maybe they never talk about drugs. Yeah. So the people that are watching this episode, they're like, where's the contest coverage? There are more and more people that are doing that though. By the way, there are more and more like just, well, this guy's my, training coach, this is my posing coach. This is my diet coach and this is my gear coach. He's a gear guru. You know, there's there's getting to be more and more people that are doing that nowadays. I've noticed. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, hey, good. I don't hate on people that have a hustle. I don't knock the hustle willing to pay you for that. That's fine. Because I feel, I don't know. I've told people before because you and I know you guys get this. What's the cycle for cutting? What's the cycle for bulking? And don't get me wrong. There are things that would make more sense. But I can cut on anything. I don't give an adrol, decka, and test. Like things that everyone says, no, I'll get sliced out of my head. It'll be like, I think there's this really odd thing in people's mind where they're. Halo. Take Halo when you're 14% body fat and tell me how much a child is. You're going to have to ask all. Nothing. You're going to see my mind. You don't. And I think that's a lesson people need to learn. Again, just hammer home Chris, like he's not even like he's on the show here. Very first show I do with him. We're cruising along and I was young. And I said, so do we switch from the oil based to water based. And he goes, you look good today. I said, yeah, he was. How'd you get here? What do you mean? How did you get your wet drug? So I was like, oil based here. Why would we change that? You look good today. Yeah. And I actually, fun fact, have only used probe one time my entire career. Yeah. I never, I never, it just, it was never an ascerry. I threw away a lot of bottles. Because I thought I needed them. And we just never switched. I just stopped buying them because I never needed it. I just used them. You know, sip all the way into shows or susten out all the way into shows. And it was fine. So I really, I think it's important that you guys know that they're listening because someone will take your money to write down something you've been listening to, drugs and stuff for two weeks. While you're making your food and put together your own cycle for free. Just gives me that little money for the, you know, just give me a little some. A little patron. Yeah, a little patron. The only probe I ever used really was off season. And it was back before I even competed. It was like when I was young because we were getting, I could get these little boxes of that probe from the vet. Like you don't get it in probe. Like he had a little 100 milligrams, 10 CC bottles of unit vet, a farm boy. Oh yeah, we need that. Yeah, we go to the small town that was a little bit farther away. And talked to that vet who would, you know, drop a case and it would break. And right at office, we break it. He'd put a few hundred bucks in his pocket and we'd leave it at the box at the unit vet test. And that was the prop and it hurt like shit too. That was like, I think it was probe like it. You couldn't take a two mil shot. You'd take like a one mil shot and then you'd like go ride the bike or something like, It wasn't fun to do man. Oh yeah. And you take like three mils a week. And it was just cycle because it was like you could stand and you couldn't take more if you wanted to hurt. Oh no. And then like, you know, where do you put it? Well, depends on what you're training the next day. If you're training like that. Yeah. Yeah. So like that, that was my like early experience with probe. So I just never used it for prep ever. You know, that's just an example. But I think that this, it goes back, it's just the base, you know, mentality, people think there's a secret. You know, what's a secret? Yeah. What do you think I eat? What do you think I eat? Take a wild guess. You know, so you know what else I will say that I didn't realize is how wild genetics are. And I know that's bad news for everybody. Carbon news. You got to, you got to play the hand you were dealt like it was when you wanted. But just understand how genetically better these people are than you. I, and I'm not saying that as a way to slow you down, but just help you understand the difference in their bodies. You know, and how they function do things. I mean, so you guys will love this. So Jose takes me yesterday's like, how's the knee? And I say great, man. I say, I don't know. I don't think it's going to be maybe a month before I made with us lightly start training. It goes, oh, it's exactly how long it is. He's like, I did it after the 2016 Arnold on Tuesday. I had that same thing done. I said, oh, how was the recovery? He said fine. I was training within a month. I took third at the Olympia six months later. There you go. Yeah. And I'm like, okay, so my knee will recover good, but I still will ever be at the Olympia. God. Yeah. But I mean, I don't think people realize and having hung out with enough of these guys and seeing. That they've got the genetics and they work their faces off. But I've seen firsthand what they take and it will disappoint you. I'm telling you that across the board, the best guys take less than the second best group of guys. And I'm not saying it's because they, it's because they don't have to. It's not that they wouldn't take more, but that other groups chasing. They have to do what they have to do. So I'm not pretending the guys don't have a bunch of gear at something I mean, but the very best. It always blows my mind and almost makes me sad because you're like, oh, here that much better than me. Holy shit. Yeah. You know, I mean, I saw Jose at the USA's one year. And he was fat and small. I remember because Chris saw me go to fat and small. He's like fat and big is better than fat and small. You know, then you fast forward like eight weeks and he was blown out and sliced out of his mind. And I was just like, I should have done something else at my time. This is not what happened to me. You know, so right. I just think that that's something important because I do understand that my point of this is I understand why people chase it. Because you're looking and you're working your ass off and you're doing what you read online. You're taking test and EQ and you're training hard and you're eating well. And why don't I look like these guys? Well, maybe there's some more to unfold within yourself. Don't get me wrong, but it's not the drugs. I promise you that part. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They're response to things. Everything. They're response to training. They're response to cardio. And it's some. Yeah. And I'll tell you what. I agree 100% and that's coming from a position where before I knew as much as I know now. Before I coached ever before I ever wrote a single diet. I helped advise people for gear. Like that is literally where I drew the line. I was like, oh yeah, I'll help you with gear. And back then, my ideas for gear were a lot more complex than what they eventually became. You know, right. You want to out of that. Yeah. We're like, we're going to start out with, you know, front loading with this compound because it's fast acting. Mother long acting compounds build up. And then we're going to switch to this, you know, eight weeks in because it's going to do this for you. And then I realized eventually that like, hey, if you were to just take, you know, 500 tests all the way through, you really could have gotten a pretty similar result. Taking a lot less shot saved a lot more money, you know, and probably stayed healthier in the process too. So I literally have come full circle with that because there was a time that I was like super complex with all that stuff. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I remember Dorian talking about half lives and like that sort of thing back in the early 90s. Like he was talking about like, well, you know, you take a drug that has a, you know, seven day half life. Then, you know, by the time you're in your third week, you should have a very stable levels of it. Yeah. I got a support. Yeah. Like in a, like, draws the chart, you know, I remember seeing like a chart that he, I can drew, like someone showed it to me. And it was like, you know, peak half life, peak half life. And he's like after the third week, you're like, you got pretty stable levels in there. He's like, you just don't worry about it so much. You know, just take it and train and let everything just do its job. And I sort of see a little bit of a resurgence in the complication of things. Like I see people talking about stuff and I have guys younger guys asking me questions that are very complicated. And I'm like, this, this is, you know, I think we like complication because it drives the need for some coaches want people to think things are complicated, right? Oh, yeah. You can't do it on your own. It drives the need for them to come in and, you know, take care of the details of your diet. Right. You know, there's a thing too, man, is that, but I realized what I learned was all of that energy that I invested. Because I didn't learn a lot about gear early on. Like a lot about gear. I, if I would have maybe stopped shy of where I had gone with that, and maybe put more focus into figuring out training. You know, like I understand to diet. It was like gear and diet, gear and diet. The training is just the trigger for growth. So you just go and do that. And that kind of works for a period of time. You know what I mean? If you hit the gear hard and you eat a lot of food and you go in there and just kind of like train hard, whatever that means. You're going to make some progress, but there's going to be some limitations to it. You can only eat so much food. You could only take so much gear, but there's always going to be something new with training. And if you stay on top of that aspect of it, to me, that's really, you, you guys tell me, would you agree is training the biggest limiting factor in bodybuilding? Well, if everyone is executing their food park correct, because the diets, for example, the three of us. I write a training, I write a diet, I write a cardio, I write supplementation. If you take all the supplements exactly how I said, eat the diet exactly how I said. You know, all of these do the cardio exactly how I said. The problem is the training. I only know if you do that the way I intended if I saw it. Yeah, because it's very simple. If I say take a middle leader of test and you take a middle leader of test, right? We've accomplished the goal. But if I say one rest pause of 15 on the incline, and I watch your setback and realize you left seven reps on the table, you did it. You stopped at 15, but not the way I meant. So yes, I think in that regard, it's absolutely the missing link. And that's why with the clients who I can, they're local, I try to get in for one workout. So I was like, we've talked about in the show. I remember the day I learned how to train and it changed everything. And that's what I try to do with clients. Like, just give me one workout. And I will complete. If you really want this, you will take the lesson from this one workout. Yes, implemented in all of your workouts and your set. It's the same argument I have with people because I have a lot of people, you know, especially when I live in Scasa. I'll pay anything I want to train with you in the gym and I'm like, you can't afford me no matter how much money you have because I don't want to leave the house. And it's not worth it. But I will train you once and then you would never need me anyways. Yeah, you should love training hard. And that's why we harp on that. You know what I mean? Like, we don't harp on like the other aspects. I think for this show and really the channel is a whole, it all comes back to the training, you know. What is the one part that isn't as black and white? I mean, you eat the eight ounce of chicken or not. Right. Right. Yeah, everything else is a yes or no. Yeah, right. You didn't kind of eat the chicken, either dead or you didn't. Right. But the sets, you trained pretty hard, but not as hard as you could of. Like there's a range in there, you know. It's the only great thing, which is what makes it complicated. Yeah. And I think it's also why it gets overly beaten up. It's the craze now on the super slow versus this versus that. I'm like, there's a happy medium in all that trust me. Yeah, just look across the board of all the biggest baddest people you've ever seen average out, give or take what they're training look like. And that's where you should be. And you should be fine. Quality straight sets are the foundation of everything that's been accomplished in body building. You can add other stuff like there's rest pause, there's all sorts of other things that come into it like dusty set. I know where we all use different things, but at the end of the day, can you do a quality set of 10 reps to failure where every rep looks pretty much identical to the next rep. And you control the weight and then the weight slows down a lot on the eighth rep, but you manage to grind out the ninth. And then you grind out the tenth and maybe you've got to put your hands on your knees or you get someone to help you. If you can do a bunch of those sets, that is like the foundation the house is built on. And you know, it's it's very simple. I feel like that's the one area when you discuss training with Dante, Justin Shire, you know, John Meadows, all of these different people who have different ways of doing things. They all kind of come back to the same thing where if the set is done like that and today it's 300 pounds. And in two years it's 400 pounds, chances are you doing it with 400 pounds is bigger than you doing with 300 pounds. Chances are very good. You know, the progression because the food is all taken care of. So, what are you doing with like reps instead of 10? Yeah, same thing exactly. Okay, I got something I got to ask guys real quick one. This is from our friend Lucas and he asked us I pulled this picture up because I didn't even know myself. You said, what do you guys think of Sam Sulek's new haircut? Now, have you seen his new haircut? No, I don't like it. I got the moment. I got a haircut. Yeah, I didn't know we had a haircut. I didn't know we got a haircut, but this is it. Oh my god, you got a bull cut. What's the back? Is the back just like normal? It's just normal. You see there's no hair back there. Yeah, there's no Alabama mudflap or nothing. I hate it. Of course, that's the most flattering possible picture of Sam Sulek. About that one. New hair. Don't care. That's from somebody's YouTube. I love the new. I'm not fortunate because of his haircut. I'm not. Judged. We hold on. I think my hat off. There we go. I'm right. I got to do a fresh shave on my dome. This is where I endorse the pit bull headshaver that I have. Use code wrong. No 20. Just crown. Code wrong. Put just put the code in. See if it works. I think those pit bull shivers should do like a just like a liberal discount since a lot of those girls are shaving their heads. After this whole deal, that'd be great. Oh yeah. Offer it towards them. Yeah. Great. All right. I have another one that this one I'm just this is for me because I'm very curious about you guys. You get to tell the next generation one piece of advice does not have to be original at all. Just something that you believe to be extremely valuable to living a prosperous life. What would that be? You guys are acting like I didn't send you these questions. I didn't think about it. I didn't think about it. Do you expect this one? I don't actually don't remember this one being on the list. That's fine. Typical guys. It's the sixth question. There's only six. No one got that far. They're at three. So it's like, oh yeah, these are good. Stuffed at three. Be fit. Be far more. I don't know if we're picky. I don't want to use it picky, but about saying which is your guy selective. Selective. Selective. About who you spend your time with. Like that. Like I had bodybuilding in my life in a big way when I was young. So I had all these goals. So I was going to bed, getting my meals. I had structure. I had all this stuff. But I saw the people around me that didn't have that structure necessarily as cemented in. And it wasn't as important to them. So they wound up like hanging out with people. And I'd be like, why are they hanging out with that person? They're not even that good of friends with them. And that person's clearly not a positive for their life. You know, why are they hanging out with that person? That person is so much drama in their life. Why would you want to hang out with someone who's got constant drama in your life? Be far more selective. Don't be afraid to just say, no. No. Like you don't owe anybody anything. You don't have to spend your time with people. You can you can focus on spending your time with people that are in the same place. And you can't spend your time with people that are in that positive for your life. And be far more selective about who your friends are. You know what I mean? I've been very aware of that. Like I always look around at people and like, why are they hanging out with that person? I know that person's got tons of drama. And then six months later, they're not friends anymore. I'm like, yeah. See, they eventually realized it. But it's just, I think young people fall into that trap too. And I just, I think that who you surround yourself, they say you're a, they say you're a result of the five people you spend the most amount of time with. And I think that that's very important to remember who do you want to become, you know? And we see this message a lot. Bumstead's been pushing this message like, I don't want to just leave a legacy that I won six Olympias. I want to leave a great example of who I became winning those six Olympias. And you could extrapolate that down to your situation. You know, what type of person do you want to be in five years? What sort of habits do you want to have? What do you want to be good at? You know, if you want to be better at playing guitar, then make sure you keep that in your life. And don't let all these other people with their negative nonsense take you away from the things you like to do. And it's all, it all adds up is what I'm trying to say. And then people use spend your time with is a big deal. And another thing I would say is to all the young people out there, start investing some money. It is the game changer. If you don't understand compound interest in the power of compound interest, do some Googling, do some math. You start putting a couple hundred bucks a month away when you're 19 years old. You're going to be worth millions of dollars when you're 40. And I know 40 seems like forever away. But trust me, you're going to wake up tomorrow and you're going to be 40. And you're going to go holy shit. I got one point five million dollars in my R.S.P. I don't have to worry. Like if everything goes completely sideways, I'm fine. Like I keep working and doing my thing, but I'm fine. You know what I mean? And do please do that. Or it's great. Very key. How about you Scott? I've got two. Number one is take advantage of your life by making sure that you do something different. Like always, always try to do something unique. You know, we walk the dog every night and we take one loop. And we'll get in the habit of just taking that same loop. But if you just take the same loop, like if you drive to work the same way every day, which I understand you're trying to get to work. You know, you kind of realize that like, oh god, I just like lost 20 minutes. It's a 20 minute drive to work, but it felt like five because you're not, you're just on autopilot. And you can live your life that way. Like that's why as we age, time starts moving faster. When we're a little kid, summer time last forever. And I've said this before long time ago on the show. But summer time last forever when we're a little kid, because everything that we're doing is new and different. Like three months, right? But it seems like a year, you know? And the older we get, the faster time moves, and it's because we're not doing something new or doing something different. So our brain just goes on that autopilot. We are all only going to be here for so long. So if the more things that you can do, they're different, the more you'll keep your brain alive, the more you'll get enjoyment out of life. That's number one. Number two is sometimes I'll get terrible anxiety. Like I'm about to fall asleep and then all of a sudden I envision myself at like, you know, 75 years old and victorious, like, you know, 13 years younger than me. And I'm like, oh my god, how am I going to keep up with her? And I'm going to die and I'm going to leave my stuff to her. And did I really accomplish everything? And all that happens in about like a split second. Like I have all those thoughts. They all happen at once and then my eyes open up. And if I tell her that she kind of laughs and was like, oh my god, no wonder you can't sleep. You got to let go and ask, right? And that sounds like a really bad thing. But if you, here's the thing. I think the anxiety can be a good thing too because it drives me to do everything that I want to freakin' do in my life. So we are running like three at least three podcasts a week. You know, I get to hang out with these guys. I get to hang out with everybody else on the shows. You know, I get to work with and talk to and help advise, like alter to people, you know, cook that I coach. And I get to do things that make me feel like I'm really freakin' happy. And all of that in part is due to that anxiety that makes me feel like I need to take advantage of life and get everything out of it. You know what I mean? It's not absolutely. Kind of a bad thing, kind of a good thing, but it ends up helping to drive me. And I sleep better at night knowing that I've done something good for the day. So. Now, yeah, it's great. I've had, I've actually seen multiple, multiple people much, much, much more intelligent than me talk about the fact that anxiety is used as a negative all the time. Yeah. And they literally say, like, it's the opposite. Like, there was an interview. I think someone was on with Jordan, I think with J.P. And she was talking about that. And she goes, well, I had anxiety for this interview. Which made me get prepared for this interview. So it wasn't a bad thing. It just made sure she showed up ready to rock. Because she's like, holy shit, I'm sitting now in Jordan. I need to be ready. I mean, this guy's ready all the time with what goes on his head. And that was her whole point. So I think it's, if I didn't have anxiety of some sort, I would worry. Oh, yeah. It's like, because you, I think that comfort is the most dangerous thing. I think you should look for resistance. Resistance is where you grow. You know, I think for bodybuilders, it should be a really simple thing. How do you get more muscular? I mean, obviously we know the food the drugs, how do you get more muscular than a gym? You look for more resistance. You do the hardest thing. And through that pain comes growth, you know, through that resistance. Then in life, people look for all the easiest ways. Yeah. No, no, no, no. So, which leads me to do the thing, and it's something that I hammer at home all the time with the girls. And I love it. Because I'm sitting with two people that I can say this without question. If I can't live this way, which is how you do anything, is how you do everything. I hammer. But if they were here right now, they would be screaming, madame. Because this is something I hammer all the time. I'll see them do the smallest thing, and they think I'm just riding their ass. You know, the other day, we have an upstairs vacuum and a downstairs. They're cordless. And I went upstairs, and the upstairs woman was full, after they were done doing it. And not plugged in. Then I came downstairs, and the downstairs woman was in the closet, and not plugged in. And I was like, you're not done. That bothered me. And when you need them in three days to do it again, because that's your chores, they won't be ready. And so I send them a long thing. I know you guys think I'm an idiot. And you think it's a waste of time, but I'm telling you, successful people, finish that. All the way to the end, every single time, you know, if I asked Ronted, if I owned a gym, also, I said, hey, can you go take care of the locker room? I don't need to look at it, because he's going to make sure the soaps are full, the hand-hawks are so. Every single detail is locked down. The garbage cans are empty before he comes out. If you don't do that in every fast of your life, you will not be successful. It bleeds into everything. I have crazy thoughts in my head, and I sometimes think that I'm a mental patient. But when I'm like, I'll be loading the dishwasher. And I'll put some stuff in, and I'm loading the dishwasher. And then I'm like, oh, I started this wrong. I didn't know that big bowl had to go in there. And I'll take a bunch of stuff, and I'll rearrange it. And I'm, because I have like a obsession with efficiency. And I'm like, there's absolutely no reason I can't get all of these dishes in there. Right? Like I could easily leave a couple things in the sink and just run the load. And just, you know, get them on the next load. But I, I, I, to challenge to myself to be efficient enough to fit them all in. I know I can fit them all in. So I'll take a minute to rearrange a bunch of stuff on the top, so I can get that one bowl in there. And then I can get everything on the bottom. And then I'll stand back, and I have this like there. That's a correctly loaded dishwasher. I got everything in. Nothing in the sink. Perfect. So everybody at home who doesn't do that. Guys, I'm, I'm with you. I'm not on that level with Ron. But I have a, I have a person in my life that does do that. And so I defer to her because she's much better at it than I am. Again, speak selective of who you spend your time with. Right? This is where you can select people in your life that can come through one certain things. And then you can come through another. So that's good selection by Scott there. Thank you. Yes. I saw one of my, you know, of one of the memes it said in every marriage. I've seen a person who loads the dishwasher like a squirrel on crack and one that loads it like this Scandinavian architect. That sounds about right. Yes. See, but I have a different saying with relationships that we are all part of, which is never relationship. There's a richer and a settler. I've been reaching my entire life. I try to make up for all my fault by being good with the dishwasher. That's I'm desperately trying to keep my job. That's classic. All right. You got some more Scott. I got more waiting. So. All right. Well, I had to comment. I had to bring up. So we're still trying to figure out guys. We want to do a contest for the two acts mutant hoodie. We did get one idea and it's not a bad idea at all from county Richards says, contest idea for the hoodie. How about the the best person who triggers Ron? I don't wear a two acts. Yes. You're not allowed to participate. We're working trigger on the best. You know, I like that. When the hoodie, I think that's a good one. We could just let that run in the background. You know, I just like that. Okay. That's the contest. I might just announce it. I might just announce it immediately during the show. It was in finishes of rampage. Oh, I do get a pause once not a question. I've won you guys to see this one. It says, you guys are a positive voice last week. I created an LLC for a hobby that became a passion. Nice. And I know that's something in hammering. Nice. Here's an important picture. Right. Knoth lunch with his friends because they're talking about that business. Don't worry, cigars count to. Anyone who's keeping score. Yeah. Yeah. Welcome to the next level. Anyone that's got an LLC. Welcome to the next level. This is an important Patreon question from Phil. What's the most top tart flavor in why you're so very new. Very new berry blueberries like an emergency flavor. That's you're the gas station and the blueberry strawberry and blueberry. When you buy the four flavor box that has strawberry cherry blueberry and chocolate, blueberries like the extra flavor that they filled the box with. Blueberries the one that you mathed out and you decided it was still cheaper if you wait for the one to just have the other ones. This is the ones you trade at school. Yeah. I'm it's good to know that people like you're out there though because that way when I need a confetti. So when you have I can give you this crappy blueberry. So you know what there's to me that the grand champion still is the strawberry frosted strawberry. I like that one. Frosted strawberry pop tart is just home sweet home. And I like the raspberry one too. Raspberry's great. And that chocolate one chocolate one's good but I'm a strawberry guy. Yeah. Do you toast them? Fetty cake for sure. I toast them if I'm at home but I'll eat them cold. I'm not afraid. Oh yeah. You know what? You know what else I'll do? I'll eat both of them together like a sandwich. Oh, well machine 70 grams of carbs right there. My problem is the crumble on that maneuver. I just got to kind of suck it and then just smash half. You got to kind of like bite and then kind of breathe in a bit and you get the pop tart desk goes in your mouth. Have you noticed if you items that just piss like when I get them I think of you know having kids and you're like who came up with this shit? It's gonna end up everywhere. Yeah. Like a pop tart you got to actually know how to eat if you want to keep it clean and forget about like those. What are those honey bars? They're like. Oh god. Sounds messy and I'm demolitely terrible. Unbelievable. They're delicious. But you don't just say if you microwave a pop tart it only means like three seconds. If you go to like ten seconds then the inside is boiling. I don't know. Maybe you guys haven't really do a lot of toasting but yeah. If you microwave them there's a window in there. It's under ten seconds in the microwave. If you go beyond that the inside turns into a like literally gone like a boiling boiling. I'm like a lot of them. Yeah. But you'll take a big bite because the outside isn't that hot. Right. And then you get the lava right in the mouth then your own Kellogg's. Yeah. I think it's like six seven seconds is the right window. I had a funny experience of the day I've tell you about with the microwave. I bought a new faucet. We got a nice new tower faucet in the kitchen. That's nice. That's nice. Anyways, I bought this really nice faucet at home deep open when in bought it paid for everything. And as I'm walking out, as I'm walking out the alarm goes off. And I turned around and look at the grown she goes, ah it's okay. I got you and she just hits the button. And I was like okay. And I even made a joke. There was a couple leaving and they had a baby and I go, I thought maybe you stole the baby and they laughed. And so anyways, I just went home. And then about a week later, I was going to install the faucet. I was going to pay a plummet to do it. My buddy was kind of nowhere. Put that up boy. So I thought, well I'll take it out of the box. So I go to take it out of the box and I realize that she didn't take the little alarm thing off. So there's this little, you know, the little thing that's on there, the anti-theta device. So I cut the box open and then I, as I cut the band off of it, the little thing comes off and it starts to go, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep, beep. Oh god, really loud in my condo. So I'm like holding it in my hand and it's like going off. beep, beep, beep, beep. And I'm like, oh okay. Well that's annoying. So, I was like doing. So I'm like, well, I think I might have to smash this. Ah. Right. I have to smash it because it was very hard plastic. It looks very, very durable. Yeah. Probably water resistant too. Like you couldn't just dump it. Yeah, so don't get or something. Yeah, so actually at first I took a couple water and I dropped it in there. Like you would have bugged. Like if you were bugged or something, you know. Yeah, so we dropped it in the water and it was in the water going. Yeah. Yeah, like the fuck. So I took it back out and it's like, beep, beep, beep. But it says gum like fuck okay. So I go get my hammer. Yeah, I go for a hand. And I put the thing on the counter and I start to hit it. Then I'm like, oh wait, am I going to crack my countertop? There's going to be an easy on the countertop. Yeah. Like, like, go to put it on the floor and I'm like, wait a minute. I got tile on the floor. Yeah. But what do I do with this thing? What do I do with this thing? Yeah. What do I do with this thing? I was just kind of like, kind of shit. It's off. I'm like, this is going to be a while for this battery to die. I have a feeling. Yeah. I thought maybe I'll put it in the microwave. Oh no. It's like, it's like putting in the microwave. I put it in the microwave. That clothes the door and the door. I thought I better only need to do like a couple of seconds. It's so amazing. Before it tells your microwave up, you may. It's in there going beep, beep, beep. I did three seconds. Yeah. I hit start and after like, not even the three seconds, it stopped. You're kidding. And I opened it and it was dead. Right. Worked. That's amazing. I never would have had the balls to do that for fear of blowing my microwave off. Yeah. Yeah. Fire up right. Twenty-sixth store window. I think it could freeze second. Yeah. If you're sick, it's gone. Somebody else is problem. The first floor now. Yeah. I was like, huh? Pretty. I know this. That's my little, I thought that was funny. It was my little. I didn't know what to do. No, that's fantastic. The dogs are all looking at you. Yeah. Well, they're looking at me. It's really annoying. Like, oh yeah. Fire alone. Territory. You don't? Yeah. So, that was fantastic. That was fantastic. I just love because when Ron tells me a story, I watch it happening in my brain. Oh, me too. Me too. You know. It's very key. It's a very key part of any good story is when I am in it. And I'm like, I've, it helps that I've been in this place. So I'm seeing all of these things take place. Why didn't what Emily to come home and go, why is there a smashed tile? Yeah, that's not good. Yeah, this counter's aren't cheap. I've heard. I don't know. Hard can I hit it. What about that question from our list that we had? What are some opinions that you had in bodybuilding, whether it be diet, training, or gear related that have changed? Oh, God, we can do a whole show. Yeah. Why said the gear, man? Earlier. You know, the amount of things that have changed for me are like off the charts. But I'll start with a really easy one that I don't even know if it's a problem anymore. But we used to be really big believers in the late 90s, early 2000s in the type of protein you ate and what time it was. So like when someone would come into the store, and I wasn't robbing him, I truly believe this. It was like, okay, you need a way isolate after you training because it gets in the system really, really fast. But you don't want to drink that with meals because it digest too quickly. And if you eat it noon, it's gone at one. You're not eating until three. You can become catabolic. I mean, this nonsense our heads. So it's like for there, you need a blend where you have the way first, then then the, you know, this and this and this, the egg, the milk protein, all digest slower or oh, before bad, you want to pure casing because it digest slow. We were really caught on all of that. And now I'm like, what kind of protein can you get? Yeah, does it digest okay? Okay. That'll, you know what I mean? Like it. It does it. Just have a bunch of sugar and you shit in it. No, okay, that'll be fine. Let's move forward. But that was something I really believed was important. And we were told it was, but nonsense. Yeah. Yeah. That's a good one. Because we weren't thinking about like the stake rate for meal two, it actually takes eight hours to digest. So those are, those are leaking into your bloodstream all through meal three. And all the way to meal four post workout, you got steak and me knows leaking into your bloodstream. So there is no, there is no period of time where you don't have a me knows in your bloodstream. You know, you might have had way isolate from meal three, but the meal two of me knows are still coming in from the stake. And like it's just, it doesn't work that way. It's, it's, I learned that thinking back to sports two when you were kids. And it was like you got to have a big post at dinner before you had out the door to go to the game. Yeah, yeah. I'm like, oh, shit. Yeah. Yeah. No, maybe you have some post at the night before the game. Exactly. That's encarboded. Yeah. Yeah. And I think we were super, I was super worried about training too far. Too far from a meal. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Like if I, if I was planning to train at three and I ate it, you know, 145 to 2 o'clock, you know, and then I had my hour. And then I was supposed to start training at three. But maybe I got stuck at the bank dealing with something or I had to, you know, go pick something up or, you know, traffic was bad or blah, blah, blah, life gets in the way. And I don't get to get to the gym till four. I would literally think, oh, I can't train. I have an eating for two hours. I've got to like have another meal and then train at five 30. And I would like move my workout. And then, you know, it's me someone to be like, oh, I thought you'd be at the gym at four, but like, oh, yeah, but I missed my, I missed my three o'clock window. So I had to eat again and I went to go home and eat again and then come back in five 30 to train. We used to do that. And I was common that was something like serious bodybuilders did because you're hardcore. And we also don't want to get the opposite, right? Remember, or after you trained, like you'd go shake up your protein shake before your last set. Yeah. And then I set it down and then do your curls and then pop it open and drink it because you're like, why got it? I got to get me. I got to start that recovery. Your your calves were still on fire from your last drop set while you were drinking your shake. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Way to obsess with timing of everything and and now like, and I used to be on my clients about that back in the day, you know, like, well, Okay, well, let's make your meal times like seven and 10 and a noon and I would write the times down and stuff. And now I just say, like, here's your five meals, spread them out. Yep. When you get up before you go to bed, have the other three spread out best you can. I know you got work and family and ship, but just get on them all in there, spread them out. You know, and yeah, way to obsess. Yeah. Yep. Scott. I said the gear thing. So that's definitely one thing, but you know, in the other part of that was realizing just how important training is and how much training can continue to evolve. I think that something that I was caught in and I think a lot of people get caught in is to think that you know everything you need to know about training. And I think one of our best rules would be to recognize that whatever you think you know about training, there is a little bit more that like, and that's because whatever we're doing right now, like whatever is working for us really well right now isn't probably going to continue working for infinity. Like, there's got to be some sort of little change. And I think that maybe I hadn't been open minded enough, you know, because I, I found things that worked and then I latched onto those and I was like, oh, this works really good for me. Well, it's like, this works really good for me. Well, it's like, this works really good for me for now, you know, and one of the problems can be like you get hurt and then you can't do that thing anymore that worked really good for you, but you can do a hundred other things, you know, and and work around it. Sometimes I think I was too closed off from changing from what I thought worked really well and looking for like the next thing that worked really well. So, you know, I think that that's a big place that I got held up at and I still see people get held up with that when they come to work with me and they say like, you know, definitely want to focus on nutrition, but I've got training figured out, you know, it's like, okay, I respect that if you don't want to work on training, I totally get it, it's cool. But I, I just want to be the person who's like, I never have it figured out completely. There's always another step and I haven't figured out what that stuff is yet. Yeah, yeah, I've learned in my retirement from competing, I have learned that hydration is like way more important than what I ate. Like I can literally have egg whites and not eat for four hours and go to the gym and have a really great workout as long as I've had like a few leaders of fluid with some salt and I'm like, you know, drinking some of my nose and I'm like, I've got lots of hydration in me and I might veins are popping on my forearms because I'm hydrated, as long as that's going on. And I've great energy all the time, you know what I mean? I would wait to have sex with, like, well, if I had carbs in the last 90 minutes, right? Yeah, you have a thousand carbs yesterday, where do you think it'll go? They're gone. Yeah, you know, they're not going to disappear. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, you start fresh. No, it is. I think that the majority of the things that we learn is in retrospect that I appreciate that I wish more people would do now is less is more was what I learned across the board. I think you'll last, I don't just mean volume, but I mean just less overanalyzation, less sets, less than worrying. The amount of thought that I put into every little thing and I credit Jose for this, he was the one that on the road, sort of teaching me really basic stuff. I'm trying to be at a phase where I don't want to lose any size, but I'm falling my diet perfect. But I'm not accounting for the fact that I'm on my feet all day and we're not sleeping that well and he's like ordering extra food for me and making me eat it. He's like just eat the fries. And then I would come home down two pounds after eating french fries with two meals a day for nine days and had I been perfectly on my diet. It would have been off or like you said, run the food timing. I tell my clients, I send them their diet and I say to be honest, you don't care when any of this food goes down. I don't care if you move the carb from meals seven to meal three to be a whatever. If you wake up and go to bed and between those two times all of this food goes down in a way that you can digest it and feel good, I don't care. And it's really blown my mind and I actually credit lane for a lot of that because I really dug into him about a decade ago. Why I said, right, really watching his stuff and I learned I unlearned the importance of a lot of the things I used to think that we're so valuable and I tell clients now to go with how they feel because I write their diets and usually my clients their last meal will be heavy and fat. They're like, oh, why is that? And I say, oh, because that's how I personally eat because I sleep better when I have fat before bed. You can move it anywhere you'd like to. It's just how I do it. You know, and he taught me a ton of that lane-norton in my opinion as popular as he is is undercredited with the information. He's brought out and the information that he's changed his mind on. I've learned stuff from him and unlearned stuff from him over the last ten years. Yeah. Another another good one that I learned because of traveling with mutant so much and just kind of being forced to learn it and then the retirement from competing and like loosening up on my rules and then seeing the results and what my body did. You know, I was a type of guy where when I was competing, you know, if we landed somewhere and we went to the hotel, I would hurry to like get an Uber, get to the gym before I closed. Do the most proper chess workout I could possibly do. And then maybe sometimes like I couldn't make it to the gym so I wouldn't train a big wall. I have to do chess tomorrow and all that stuff because the hotel gym just had like a pinloaded life fitness press and dumbbells to 50. So I think well, I can't train chess there. But now I'd be like, I'm just going to go to the hotel gym. I go down and I do the pinloaded machine. I'd figure something out. I do work. I do all my sets on it, maybe do the instead of doing eight sets of chess. I do on four different things. I do eight sets on that press with like different rep ranges and then I'd go hit the dips. Maybe there's a dip bar and that's all there is. And then next day my pecks have been sore. I'd be like, I'd a great chess workout. There's no way anything shrinking. Yeah. I'm fine. Like I'm going to go home this week. I'll look exactly the same. Like you know what I mean? Like I was way too fussy and obviously you don't want to miss workouts. And I would just make things work. Like there's way more flexibility and there's way more room to maneuver inside there instead of like the anxiety of being so rigid about everything. And being upset because you didn't make it to the gym. Why can't train the hotel gym in the gyms clothes? So I guess I'm not trained today. Like I have to make it up and I have to train. You know what I mean? Like all that stress. And now I just roll with it man. Like what do I got? We even designed a couple of times on the road. Remember where we go to it. Because Scott, you know what I mean? You've seen enough that the gym in town is really busy because that's where everyone is. Right. And run now walking with gym. We look around and we're coming in for back or something. And we're like, there's a cable tower over there. You want to do arms today. And we'll do the entire thing. We don't move. Bize tries one piece. Yeah. Everything's just slammed. All right. This will work. And even if somebody needs to work in good. All right. Yeah. You know, it's. Yeah. And it never failed to to work out like Ron said where you're like, where has you right? I mean, why is younger? It would be a problem. Like oh. Yeah. No, it's it's back day. Right. Like my boss in a lake this year. I've got to find a place with that arsenal lake press. Yeah. Yeah. It's pretty cool. Can't train there. Yeah. Yeah. Here's another one that I thought was valuable. There's. I've curious with you guys is what's something that you learned prior to become a competitive body builder that helped you as a body builder and where did you learn it? And I'm thinking like sports, parents, whatever. I have two that come to mind. And the first one is working on the farm. And my my my I don't know if it was my dad saying something to me that Clued it in but like I would often think of it before a lake workout. Like you'd have that anxiety before a lake day. You know what I mean? I like I got legs like and I had this thing I would say I was like, oh, just jump in. Just close your eyes jump in start shoveling. Don't think about it. You'll be done before you know it. And that was like something that kind of came from the farm like there'd be a big job to do like we've got to shovel this grain re out. Yeah. And if you think about how shitty it is and you know like how hot it is in there and how long it's going to take. You'll be miserable if you just just get it over with. And regardless you got to do it. So yeah, it's going to be done. Yeah. It's got to be done. Just get in there. Get going like don't stand around and talk about it and make it worse and how I'm in a hobboat. Well, I'll go in for 10 minutes and you go in for 10 minutes just both you get the fuck in there. Start shoveling get it out. Yeah. And I would often do that all the time like where I'd be faking like which exercise should I start with today. A little hacks are the be they're both going to suck doesn't matter. Just pick one and get in there and just get going and just get dirty and just doesn't matter. It's all the same at the end of the day. You're going to be trash no matter what just get it done. And so that sort of like don't think about how terrible something's going to be. There's lots of shitty jobs you don't want to do. There's lots of days you don't want to train. There's lots of exercises you don't feel like doing. But just get into it and the faster you get going and the faster you get the next thing you know you're on your second working set you're almost done. Yeah. You know like it's just so that's the one thing I got from the farmers just just get going. And then from football. I remember I don't know if it was my coach or someone else saying it to me but it always stuck with me. But one thing you'll learn from playing football, whether you're offence or defense. There's that feeling of chasing somebody down the field. They've got the ball and you're chasing them and if you don't catch them they're going to score. And then there's a feeling of having the ball and running down the field. And if you don't score you're going to lose. And both players get the same experience and it's running for your life. You're running for your life. Nothing exists at that moment. You got an angle on the guy he's going down the sideline and you better pick the right angle because if you get it if you get that math wrong. You don't get him and if you can get that guy and tackle him he doesn't score. And it's running for your life and that's a set absolutely all out like you're you're willing to die running chasing that fucking guy. And he's got the ball and he's going through the same thing. He's willing to die running trying to outrun you. And I think that that's a super valuable experience. And that's one thing that I think sports teaches kids is running for your life. It's a metaphor. There's all sorts of ways they can learn that and all different kinds of sports. But it's like right now in this moment you have to give everything you got. And I think about it all the time. It's like one of the most lingering things I got from high school football was running for your life and it crosses my mind all the time. And I feel bad for people who don't have it. Right. I like that. It's got. I've got two. They both come from my 12 step recovery program. They're two saying. And these things that like that 12 step program. They have like a lot of you know just for today kind of saying that stick with you. One of them is delay the gratification. You know, and that applies to bodybuilding that the other one is an enticing with it is trust the process. If you trust the process you delay the gratification, you know, you're not necessarily going to get the payoff today. But you will get the payoff if you hold on, you know, and part of that is like you've got to spend a lot of time growing muscle before you can cut down and show it off, you know, a lot of people want to get into it. And what they say is like, well, what do you want to do and they tell me, I want to get cut and I want to grow muscle. You know, they want to do both of those things. And you can really like you've got to spend a long time like around you spent years, you know, you competed and then you spent years and years growing muscle before you competed again. You delayed the gratification, you know, so you spend that time delaying the gratification and then you trust the process knowing that you know, you don't have to have it today. You just believe in it and you show up, you know what I mean, trust the process also means like not every workout is going to be your best workout. But you just keep showing up, you just keep doing the thing that needs to be done. Just like you don't always want to go to a meeting. They tell you when you first start going to those meetings that you that you should make 90 meetings and 90 days. And you're coming from a position where you don't go to meetings at all and now they want you to make 90 meetings and 90 days. And if you start getting in the habit of it, it becomes really easy to do it. I did 90 and 90 and then after that I did 90 and then after that I did 90 and 90. I did like every day for the first two years and that includes like Christmas and stuff because I wanted to, you know, and I guess the same thing I think applied then to bodybuilding is even on the days. You don't necessarily want to do it. You just get in there and like you said, Ron, it ties into yours then, you know, you just you just get out. You just pick up a shovel and just start shoveling. Yeah, yeah, like those. I don't know those were any of those are things that's so obvious. So mine, I got really lucky, but so I moved away when I was 16 to play hockey and I'm living on my own. So it's like your hand links from groceries and your handling school and your handling being 16 and so it was early on in the season and I was just off and one of the coaches like it's up with you. And I was like, what do you mean he's like, you're off. You don't seem normal. I was like, well, when I get done with this, I got to leave here. I had to go to the store. I got some homework to do and I listed all these things that I had to get done and he was like, oh, so what do you mean he just, you're here in this moment right now. And you're choosing to waste this moment you're in worrying about the things you cannot do until you leave here anyways, right? And he's like, do you remember when you first started playing hockey and the only thing you thought of all day was getting to the ring to play. And then when you were there, you're so immersed. He's like, do you remember just smelling the ice when you got there and you started kind of walking through all that stuff and I'm like, yeah, you have to get back to that. Like, don't forget how lucky you are to be right here right now for the next 90 minutes doing what you do best by the way, the thing that you moved out of your parents house to do. And you're being pulled down by the shit you don't like to do school and nonsense. And the reason I think that applies to me now is I work with a lot of clients out. I hear that they get to the gym and they're distracted. And now I truly, because I mean, I don't understand that. Like, when I get to the gym, I mean, my car could be on fire in the parking lot. And I'm like, well, I haven't insurance. Move forward. But it's something that I think it affects people both in training bodybuilding and in life, which is they're not in the moment. Ever. Be present. You know, like be present with everything. But with the gym, it's like, listen, I understand you got to get home and you got to do this and you got to do that. And that'll all still be waiting for you when you leave. So if you gave yourself 16 minutes to be here, then be here and like really leave it in the parking lot and find ways. Because I know some people are listening to this going, well, you have it. How you find a way to kind of set your mind up that you're heading to the gym. Example are when we got Nova the new pup. She and like the crate. She broke her way out of two of them. Like, the most two crates. I had to buy like one looks like a jail. But I refused every night. We just went through the routine. And now it's so routine that when we go out, when she has to go the bathroom at night, we have to make sure her crates ready because she runs in full speed to get into the crate and then lays down. So if you don't have her bedding all set up, she's in there and you're like, how do I get out of here? Yeah. And what I mean by that is you can set those kind of things for yourself. What do you do before you like say you go from the office to the gym? Okay. Office is done. Do you listen to music? Do you write out your training program on your log work? What do you do that tells yourself? What about to get to the gym when I get there at the gym time? And then lock into that moment. And I think it's wildly important not just for results, but for like living life. Because you know, the amount, that's the one that I hate about the information age is no one is present. Yeah. In anything, I'm like, why are you on your phone and your car? Why are you in the phone and the gym? Why are you, you know, I mean, we talked about that with my training partners before. I don't give a shit about your life outside of the gym and we're in the gym. Sorry. Can I, can I? Yes. All of you people, people, people. They're hand-watches. I really, really want to implore you. I understand you love your apple watch because it tells you how many steps you took. And it monitors your heart rate and all that stuff. But please, for your own sanity, turn off all of the notifications from your messages. Oh, yeah. Because when I'm talking to you and when the middle of talking and you look at your watch because it just buzzed, I think, oh, this person's not paying any attention. We want to show whatever. I'm just going to shut my fucking mouth and just walk away in mid-sentence. Drives me crazy. And I think of all the messages I get during the day, if all of those buzzed on my wrist. Oh, yeah. I would get nothing done. Nothing done. I can't imagine trying to, I'll just continue to blow you up with. I have to figure out something with ring. Because my ring app is, like, if I, that's the one that I have notifications that will go through. But I have to get in the settings because I also get notifications from other people that are like, Oh, we found a dog. So every day, like twice a day, I get a new dog. I get a picture of a dog. That's like what I get. At least twice a day, I'll get a picture of a dog. I have to figure out how to change that. But that's the only thing that goes through. Just simply put the do not disturb mode on your inner watch. Yeah. Yeah. Just turn it off people. You have enough going on right here. Like, I can't imagine. Hey, with the relief our phones on do not disturb all day. Yeah. And when it be able to bring through to my phone, our Nikki and the girls. Yeah. Because, you know, if you, in my friends now, if you want to get a hold of me, you need to call. Because you'll, I don't like phone calls. So if you bring, so my ghost shit Ron needs me. Yeah. He's ringing. He wants to use words. So, but no, I thought that was, those were, it's, it's fun to me the amount of things that I could list that hockey taught me. It's just amazing. That have applied to bodybuilding and just life in general. I went to throw in something and dusty about what you were saying. Because that, like, I looked at it as mindfulness. That's the way I was taught that idea. And I had my therapist taught me what mindfulness was after I got into recovery. I got a therapist shortly after I got in recovery. I did a lot of really good work with him. For good or a lot of stuff out. And one of the things was figuring out like how to be present. Because I would drive to the gym and get stuck in traffic at 4 p.m. 20 minute drive turns into an hour drive. And I would just be like freaking grip in the wheel. You know what I mean? Right. Can we just fucking move faster? And he, he really pointed out to me. It's like, you know, there's two ways you can deal with that. You can either say, like, hey, I haven't opportunity to turn the air conditioning on. Listen to my podcast and relax because when we're another, it's still going to take the same amount of time. Or you can behave that way. You know, and one of the things he taught me was mindfulness meditation. And so at the time, I thought meditation was like, where you clear your brain. You know, and all that kind of stuff. But he had taught me that mindfulness meditation, it's something you can do for five minutes a day. And you just literally focus on what you're doing right now. So you take that five minutes and you're like, like your coach said to you, like the smell of the ice, he took you there. You know what I mean? It's all the things that make you present. How does, where am I sitting right now? You know, how does the chair feel that I'm sitting on? What are the sounds that I hear? You start, you ask yourself those questions. And literally that's what that type of meditation is. And I found that by practicing it, and sometimes I'll have to get back to it, but practicing it just like five minutes a day helps me to be a lot more present just all the time. Yeah. I'm not perfect at it. Just saying though, I want to throw that out. That's very cool. I'm not perfect at it, you know. I don't think anybody is, but it is amazing when you, when you, when you strive to get better at mindfulness and being present, it is wild how much better life gets. Yeah, you know, like, I feel that half the time I don't post things I would like to on Instagram because they sound so ridiculously cheesy. But it's like simple stuff when you, when you haven't trained for a few days because I had the surgery, right? Walk back to the gym. I was just so excited. I'm like, I get to train again. I'm like, right. That's funny. I've been training for 20 some odd years. I'm like, amp down on my head. And it's not that I don't take time off. I'm not some of the has to go, but I couldn't go for three days. Which made me like very hyper aware of the fact that I was going to go lift weights and it didn't bother me that I could, my knee was an issue or any of these other things. And I have found that since the accident, like my awareness of those tiny little things really makes small moments cool. You know, we've talked about this before to having nothing to gym. We'll be out on the road and, you know, a big group of us are out at dinner and I'll just have like a pause in my head and go, this is awesome. And then I'm right back. But just whereas before it was awesome, but I was in it, but I never like registered like holy shit. You know, we're in Germany with all my friends. Yeah. Yeah. That's pretty cool. You know, hey, I had something I just thought of guys that I want to tell you about. I think you'll appreciate this. I didn't look at it myself up Victoria saw this. We were talking about it. I think it was last night. So now at plastic surgery clinics and the clinics that are doing those empathics, they have people that will coach you on how to do your social media. So this is how it works. Like six months before you get your Brazilian butt lift, you start posting about how you're training and you're doing exercise and you get a gym membership. And then you casually just start posting that you're at the gym. And then like six weeks out and maybe it's like two months. I can't remember the name at the time frame. But then like, you know, six weeks out, you hire a trainer or you say you hire a trainer. You know, when you post some videos and stuff like that. And then you bank a bunch of content so that during the surgery, you can keep posting that content. And then like whatever it is six weeks after the surgery, you do the big reveal. Here's my transformation. They're like they're totally gaming it. Isn't that crazy? Does your surprise me at all? No. I wouldn't have thought of it. Yeah. Right. Like when it crossed my mind, because it's just this bizarre level of fakeness that just doesn't occur to my brain. Like, but yeah, obviously, it's obvious. Of course. Yeah. But let me ask you a second. Because first off, I'm going to just say, I don't give a shit when anyone does with their body at all. Right. So I don't understand if I was, I mean, I guess if I was a guy, I was getting a BBL. And I wanted one. I'd be like, like this. I just bought it. Yeah. You probably posted the surgery. Yeah. I'll bring into the surgery. Like, yeah, I have a flat ass, my whole life. But I had some fat on my midsection. They're pulling out of here. So I'm going to be tighter and I'm putting it back. Like, I don't understand because you're basically wanting to lie. Like, why do you feel shame in that? And I say the same. And I'm going to say this on this channel to the drives me crazy. I despise when fitness people go, just work for it. Well, sweetheart, it's $10,000. They worked for it. And by the way, you're muscular ass does not look the same. They might not want to muscular ass. They might want to fat ass. So that's one of my, like, pet peeves of the fitness industry. Is it's like, just do this. And I'm like, I'm loaded up on gear. Dude, I kind of did the same thing. Let's pipe the front. I don't know. It's crazy. Something about fitness people where we refuse to notice the things that we do that are like the same. Oh, yeah. Yeah. God forbid you get a BBL. Hey, do you know where I get some good SEOs? I'm going to blow up these arms. Yeah. Or I take a lot of gear, but I got from that I'd taken SEO. Yeah. Crazy. I took a whole bunch of heat on SEO because they were someone who was jammed up that I had used a bunch. Because I used to hit my tries all the time with regular shots. Yeah. I tried SEOs, but because I wanted for my biceps, they couldn't, they hurt too bad. And I couldn't train. I was like, I think I'm going to tear a bicep dead lifting with this shit in there. So I couldn't use them. Apparently there was years of discussion on my SEO abuse. And I'm like, oh, if I was using it, I'd just tell you. I had no shame in my game whatsoever. It just didn't work for me. Why would he draw the line there, you know? Yeah. I'm like, but I think he has people live at it. I'm like, oh, no. I wanted it to work. And that's why my biceps were never great. My whole career was like, they wouldn't grow great. And I couldn't play anything in them. So that sucked. Normal people will shame people for like using an ozempick. They'll, they're completely like disqualify you. Because I've seen it. I saw it with somebody I know where their family members were like, Yeah, but you know how he did it, right? You care. You know how he did it, meaning like it didn't really know. You cheated. But they're saying, why do you as a person? What do you give a shit? I think the thought with that is that like, well, once they stop, it's all just going to go back to what it was before. And maybe it will. But I mean, like people shouldn't care. Like, you know, back to what Ron was saying earlier about the people that are around you. I, it's not because I'm better than you. I just don't, I genuinely don't give a shit. What you think about my outfit or my muscles or who I'm with. It's like, if you care about what someone's opinion of how you lost your weight, your problem isn't your weight. You got to figure a shit out. Yeah. Why do you care? You know what I mean? It's a wild thing to me that you teach your kids not to care. But you care? I mean, it's like, it's the same in reverse. I know you guys have done this. I've had some of my go to me. Have you used arrows? Yeah. And they're like, they're stunned. What? Did you ask? I mean, I mean, I, and if you think that that's the only reason that I'm big, That's fine. I won't argue with you. You know, for any guys or girls or fun, this if somebody writes a mean comment on your post for the love of God, don't repost it and then wine about it and show me you don't care. I know that means you do knock it off. It's fine. Like, oh, my favorite comment was when I was competing, somebody said that guy called you a walking chemical factory. It was like, I like that. That means I'm doing something right here. You know, so I look crazy then. Yeah. That's what I saw. It was like that means I look nuts, right? The guy who I bought the stores from, so actually you're like this, Ron, muscle factory. Before his muscle factory was a planet fitness. But years before that in the late 90s, it was a gym called Bovay's gym. And it was like a hardcore body of the gym just like it is now. But my friend that you see, this was after fact, he was telling about old Bovay stories. And you still always say that gym was chemical warfare. That's a great term. And I guess I mean, because I was like a young kid just getting into it. I was like, oh man, he was, oh yeah, everyone there was on something. You know, but, but I do that's that's so comical Scott that it's a people are so worried about doing what they want to do and other people's opinion know that they're willing to lie to display it. Like what? Yeah. That's how that's a lot of work, man. I'd rather just be like, listen, I make a ton of money. I spent 12 grand on the tits 15 on the ass. Oh, go off. Yeah. Right. Here's my only fans. Follow me or not. Exactly. Who cares? Yeah. My husband likes it or he doesn't. I don't give a shit about him either. I think it should be surprised in the filter world, you know? Yeah. That's my favorite thing is the filter is I'm like, yeah, pretty to begin with. Why are we doing that? Yeah. Yeah. Just blew my mind that that was a thing like that they're they're gaming it. You know, it's a hard part of I don't know. I would I would respect them so much if they were also making a grand off of that. I'll look into it. I'll look into it because they're coming back to me about this week. I did a quick search and it out the gate all I get is like all these different companies that will manage my social media for me. So it's going to take a little digging. I think that's fantastic. Gold. I'll never answer. Thanks for ended on that note. Okay. We should end it right there. Yeah. Yeah. I'll tell you where we're going to be. Yeah. We're going to get way to get episode today. Way to get episode. I like that. That was fun. Flu by gentleman. Yes. And if the last five minute crew's still with us, you know, they're here. They're here. Okay. Remember like share subscribe comment and bring the bell. Yes. And remember I am mutant.com. Dusty or big run. Use your codes. Get your ISO surge. Get your all in and everyone should get on the gear. And remember to think big body building Patreon. Keep your producer home. Go to the Patreon. Invest your five dollars a month or whatever you want to pitch into the Patreon. And yeah, keep producing our home. It really is a big help. So thank you guys. Yeah. Awesome. Very happy about it. And I guess we'll see you guys soon. Yeah. Remember it's just body building.

There may be a thing you may not have heard of it, it was called a natural Federation where people die and compete with no jokes at all. It's just like the other thing but without the var. Yeah. What's up guys, welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I'm Scott McDaley and all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon in fact. Patreon member who just asked us a question that we're going to answer today. We got a couple of Patreon questions actually and guys if you're new to our content, let me encourage you to subscribe and hit the bell. We've got several podcasts that come out each week and all the comments you guys have been doing, all the likes, all that stuff that really has been helping to boost the show. So thank you for that. Let's keep that going. You guys are freaking awesome. We're brought to you by Trinutrition.com. Use our code ThinkSufflementSource.ca for our Canadians and we're brought to you by StromsBortionTrition. Last but not least, EvailBloodNelluses.com. Get your lab worked on by Dave. You like that? This is weird yellow thing in this guy. Did you see the eclipse yesterday? Did you guys have the eclipse over there? Did you have the same sun we have here? I don't know, I don't think so because we never see it. We had the solar eclipse yesterday in Victoria and I set outside and watched it. And it was pretty cool. I'll try to run a picture in here but guess what? I think everybody in the world had an opportunity to see it if they wanted to. We've got a lot of listener questions, Dave, and you just got back from your procedure. Are you feeling alright? You good to do the show today? I don't know. You have to be nice to many of you stressed me out too much of my oven episode. With this new thing that you have, is there a button I can press that will shock you in your heart? No. Like as a practical joke sometimes I just sneak up on you and press the button. Parfall magnets can screw it up apparently. So I have to be careful. You know the security things in shops? Oh yeah yeah. I can go through them but I'm not allowed to stand there and for extended periods of time. What about the airport? Yeah, apparently I can't go through those machines at all. I have to be manually searched. And Bluetooth can screw with it as well apparently. Really? No kidding. So it's not, it's not. It's still like I'm not allowed to have headphones sitting here or things like that. But yeah I don't know. I'm waiting, I get a, it's not a docking station but I get a download station that will sit in the bedroom and basically when I go to bed on the night it will link up and it downloads information from the machine and sends it to my car deal. That's pretty cool. I don't even care in that. Well I'm glad to know that they're keeping on top of it and just to reiterate this procedure was to, because right now they know you're healthy enough to do it and they're like, hey, because of your hard issues, you know, 15 years down the road, you may need this and at that time, who knows how healthy you'll be. So let's get this machine in you now, right? Yeah, it was, it was, it was, it's in. I'm so far, it's mid, far. Mary, yeah, I misunderstood. I thought it was last week or this upcoming week. Another people were saying that too. They're like, so we have a good luck for Friday, big Dave. But guys, it's been done. Dave's back. So anyway, glad to have you back, man. We're glad you're okay. Yeah, fine. I didn't do it. I drove up to Raba Dean for the Grunney Sea show. Did seminar on the Saturday, which was quite good. No rest. That locks to the above three. Three hours, I think that went on for three hours. I told, Molox, did anybody actually listen? I think there was two people. Two, and then one of them, in one of them was your wife, right? One of them was in a wheelchair and he was carried a pit stop so he couldn't go anywhere. Yeah. No, it was all right. I actually wanted to bat it a little self. And then the show was, was very busy on the Sunday in very busy. We had to leave early just because the travel time was seven hours. Okay. Well, listen, but we've got a ton of listener questions. And if you guys want to take part in the next show, then jump right in. Comment with your questions. We'll tackle it on the next show. Plus all your comments and stuff. All those things they helped to boost us in the algorithm, as I mentioned earlier. I wanted to start with this one. If you remember, Dave last week, we had a guy say that he hadn't competed in a long time. I wanted to get back into it falling in love with the idea of prep, but not so much falling in love with gear. He said, hey, if could I run 25 of our with my TNT and just do that and do a contest? And of course, we answer, we're like, hey, you can do whatever you want, really. And if that's what you wanted to do, go for it. I think there is a conversation to be had there. And we kind of got into it about risk to reward. And how high can you go before that risk starts to increase? I think that'll be different for everyone. But we got to comment. We got to get a little bit of a hate or comment, I think. He's, I'm not going to put it up because we're trying to avoid putting doses on the screen. Now it is, he says, nobody is winning any contest under two grams of gear. Stop lying about dosages and just say it. What are you taking? What are you talking about 25 milligrams of var? Who would do that crap? First of all, he said whether he could compete, not all about winning, just being able to compete. And there may be a thing, you may not have heard of it, it was called a natural Federation where people die and compete with no drugs at all. It's just like the other thing but without the var. Yeah. I actually need drugs if you want to compete. Yes, obviously drugs can improve. Yeah, I'm very much of the opinion that drugs don't necessarily improve condition because when you look at Natti's, those boys come in, beiled. Yeah, yeah. They do. They do. They do. The fat loss aspect and I'm going to get to one of our Facebook users. She asked, what was the best fat loss? Well, she said best in a ballic to aid in fat loss. Man, the fat loss is really all about the diet. I mean, the fat burners, they're icing on the cake, you know, planting three all that stuff but you're not going to be able to get there without the diet, the diet, then the cardio, then the other accoutrements. I like that. The quichromalt. Steve. Yeah, I mean. It's, sorry, I take text of life. Yeah, it, I mean, regards that common. I know, a very good pro who, who wouldn't rookie of the year, I'm placed at the Olympia. And I don't believe he had gone over 700 make toll. There are actually, actually, freaks out there. Yeah, yeah. I come back to him. I mentioned that I, you know, so I don't do a ton of contest prep. The reason being is because it takes up a lot of time to do content prep. Yeah, especially the way I do. I'm basically having people checking every day. I enjoy doing it. But I try not to do a ton of prep because I end up just investing so much energy. That said, I could introduce you to two gentlemen that not only won their shows, but won their pro cards at under well under two grams. Like we're talking a gram, you know, one pro cards at that at that level. I agree with him. So it can be done. But not everybody. Those are the individuals. There's a lot of genetics at play. There is a lot of genetics playing that is the big factor. And but there is also a lot of people that just by space of good arguments, just genetics as well. Just aren't capable of putting the hard work. You know, don't want to put the hard work in. And as a result, use drugs as a crutch to say that you need to gram to compete, particularly on a local level or particularly an optional quality file level, would fall me a reflection of your situation rather than everyone else's. And though I don't want to be insulting, if you need to gram to compete and be competitive at a local show, I would certainly be questioning everything else that you're doing. Because that definitely isn't necessary. I've got lots of people to pro qualifiers on lot lower doses. George, wait, present. I've repeated four times naturally in several times not condition was the same. He said muscle mass wasn't. Yeah, I know several pros. I know what they've done. I know what they've currently doing to be competitive. And though they are over the two, they're not massively over the two. Yeah. And these are guys that are reasonable genetics. You need that to be a pro in the first place. But a couple of them are grafting. I mean, they're having a work very, very hard to to be competitive as a pro. He's not being gifted to them in any way. There will always be high users. There will always be those that need a little bit more. But I do think this fallacy that you have to be on grams and grams of gear to be a pro is bullshit. But at the same time, yes, there are drugs. And yes, some people will need more than others. I know you're not standing on an Olympia stage on 800, make a week for 90% of people. Yeah. Yeah. And you can see it too. And I don't want to be labor too much. Because all we don't have like actual proof that we can show people here. We can't like lay it out for him. But Dr. Jackson competed for nearly 30 years. And he couldn't have handled those types of doses for that long. But you do see guys that blast up, right? And they look fantastic. They've got a nice little run for a few years. And then they come back down. There's a reason they weren't able to maintain that as long as Ducks did. You know, they had to do a lot more than Ducks. I know several pros are Ronny St about their doses. And their online formats. They're open, so James something to say. He's a YouTuber. All very open about what they use and how much they use. And I'm not lying. Yeah. Anyway, I just wanted to pick that guy out. Because, you know, he's in part, he's in part right. But he's also in part not right. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. No, I think. You know, there is there is there is there is not a requirement that it happens. And plenty of people do. There's no denying that. But it is not an essential requirement. There are those that can be very competitive up to a decent level on quite low doses. Mark Joyce, I have to be pro. Very low user. No, he's one of the dwarf classes. So he needs to 12. Okay. Okay. All right, listen. Let's move on to some questions we can give people tangible answers to you. Does, and we'll get back to the female and a pilot question. How about this one though? Does scar tissue relate to the length of the needle or the diameter if both? Which is more inflammatory? The broader the needle, the more initial scar tissue you're going to create because you disturbing a large circumference of muscle muscle. Length of needle isn't the issue depth of injection. Obviously the deeper you go into the muscle, the more muscle you're going to disrupt. So therefore there's a longer scar. But the length of needle has no correlation to the depth of needle in essence. You could put an inch needle in court range. You could put an inch needle in three quarters of an inch same needle, bigger scar from three quarters of an inch depth. Scat tissue is more the repetition of the site than directly the needle size to an extent. Yes, a slim pin is going to be much less impacting than a green. But I would say that the biggest influence factor is you, siege of the site. Yeah, yeah, the like the frequency, I would agree with that. And there's a trade off, if you have say a 23 gauge, when you press that oil in the pressure of that oil entering the muscle is going to be a lot lower than say a 29 gauge insulin pin. And if you think about a garden hose, think about like no nozzle and the water pouring out of that. Versus if you put your fingers over it, then point it at Dave, you know, which I would do that totally right now as a number. Yeah, if we were in the backyard. No, I agree. And that is something to factor in is, is disruption to the tissue due to the velocity, the pressure of of the oil that's coming through. You know, I mean, high-powered jet washes will take pain off things. So I mean, I know we're not using a high-web, but the point is pressure does have an impact at the end of the needle in the muscle. So, but Scotty should be broken down. Uh, deep tissue work is going to remove a lot of scar tissue. Uh, so it's not something that needs to be a permanent state of life. So good. I was just going to say the same classification. Calcification will occur as well. And again, that can be broken down with deep tissue work. Yeah. I used glutes only two shots a week from my first couple cycles. And I noticed I started building up scar tissue and I started getting the like the rose crispies, the snap crackle pop, you know, and I backed off of those sites for a while. And it did heal. Like it took time, but it did heal. You know, so I do believe that you can help that to recover to some extent. And I probably caught it early enough. You know what I mean? If you ignore that, you keep trying to put it in the same spot over and over again. I think you're in for your in for trouble. I think volume of oil has something to do with it, too. You know what I mean? Like if you're doing 3CC shots in that muscle, I do think that that's going to take longer to recover than if you're doing, you know, go extreme a half CC. You know what I mean? Hmm. Yeah. I think volume plays a role. I mean, you're disturbing the tissue with volume of oils. Oh, I was a, yeah, you know, an impact. And how steady is your hand? Especially for new guys. If your hand is kind of like shaking and moving all around, you're going to get a lot more pain after that after that administration, you know. Sure. All right. What else do we have here? Dave, love the information in contents. Do you all think that the ECA stack is good for fat loss? And if so, what dose will be recommended or recommended or even spot injections of your him buying in clan? Would these be good for stubborn fat areas like love handles? No, I don't. The only thing I know that will spot reduce is BGF2A. I thought there was, so plan, you'll hand-bank combo in an injection is non-none's helios. I thought my understanding is that there is some level of localized effect. Though you are getting a systemic effect once it enters your bloodstream. It's not just staying here. Yeah, but I understand it is that there is, but it's not right. So say you had fat at lower stomach. And you inject in the left hand side of your fat of your lower stomach. You may get a slight reduction in fat in that very small localized area, but you're not losing fat from across the stomach. Yeah, okay. Yeah, you guys might get rid of it. So people grid it out usually once there's one inch of part. Yeah, but that's not using helios is it? That's using the the other stuff, the fat dissolving shots. No, with helios meaning like if you grid it out and then you do a daily administration, you're supposed to go no closer than two inches to the navel. And then but you go say two inches out from the navel, then three inches out the next day, four inches out the next day. You know what I'm saying? You kind of grid that out. Is what I've seen people do? I wouldn't look okay. Well, if people have experienced noticeable fat loss, specific to that area, then fair enough, but I wouldn't have thought that they would have been a total fat loss. And it wouldn't have been overly specific if you're talking about one shot in a two inch area every day over. I mean when you do the fact is all being shot, it's one shot every two inch every couple of days. Okay. For every week. So you'd you'd grid it out, but you'd actually do a shot in every two inch grid each time. Oh wow. So you're doing multiple administrations in that same day. Yeah. And that's specific to dissolving fat. So I can't see there being a huge localised impact from nearly else by doing it in the form of one shot per day. But I mean, if you need to put it in somewhere, why not? I'll say to be in an issue. Yeah. I'm more of a fan. I've only used it with clients a few times. Every time that I've used it, it's because they've had it and they told me that they wanted to use it. It's never been something where I've been like, oh, you should pick this up. We should use this. It's somebody who already had it. They wanted to use it. I generally go with oral. And at the end of the day like I was saying, you're going to get a systemic effect once you've taken that shot anyway. We do have to keep in mind. And this is just from a dieting standpoint that we all have trouble areas that there's generally for men. Love handles, lower stomach, those areas tend to be more of the problem areas. And for women, a lot of times like the hips, the glutes, the hamstrings. And those will usually be the last areas to go in order to get rid of that fat. You have to keep dieting. You know, these things, whether they may help or not, I've never relied on them. I've gotten people to the point that those areas have gone, but they're going to be the last spot to go. And they're usually going to be the first spot to come back to. Once you get rid of it, even if you look peeled everywhere else, once with a client, once I've gotten rid of their trouble spots, then my brain is locked in on those trouble spots when we start filling back out. You know, I want to watch your lower back. If you have a hard time getting your lower back in shape, I want to make sure that like, okay, you might have your abs still. You might even have veins in your abs still. But I'm keeping an eye on what's that lower back doing, because that's going to be, at the end of the day, we're only as lean as our fattest area. Do you find though that when someone's got truly lean, particularly if they've held it for a number of weeks, that those trouble areas are much less troubling moving forward? That's a good question. And I think this, so I think that, yes, they still can be that like if you, if you're predisposed to have low back fat more than somebody else that you're probably still going to always get that. But I have seen this where somebody's maybe they've not been on anything, right? They're completely natural. And they have fatt deposits based off of how their hormonal setup is. Then they go on gear. And I think that those fatt deposit, like that stuff can change to some degree. Meaning, you never come back off. You're not on TRT after the cycle. You may store fatt differently than you had previously. There may be something to that just based off of what I've seen. But I still see that even if it does change to degree, if you're low back as a problem, you've got a lot of fatt cells there. You're probably always going to have them there. Unless you got them sucked out. You know? I found when you take clients super lean and maintain that for a period that in general, their predisposition to gain in fat does seem to change a little bit. You tend to be at a hold, condition a lot easier. Yes. Once you've got that initial deep cut out of the way. But it's already at that deep cut because obviously when you've carried fat for a long time, you'll get to a certain level and then it does get you have to be so much more extreme to get it really down. Or you need to hold that level for a period of time to make that become the normal baseline and then push again from there rather than trying to do it in one continuous drop. Yeah. I would agree that once you get rid of it, it's easier to keep it off than it is to get it off. There's no question. All right. One of the common questions we get asked by you guys is, what would you do differently with your body building if you could go back in time? Given all the experience and education I have today, there's a number of things that I would have done differently. One of them is that I would have started using collagen sooner. Collegin is one of the few supplements that will actually rebuild connective tissue. It took me tearing my super spinatus in 2021 to get with the program. I used true nutrition's hydrolyzed beef collagen. I get the unflavered version. I pay for it myself. Just like you guys do, I used 20 grams a day. Makes it into my coffee. It's totally unflavered. You don't even taste it. Plus, I use 10 grams of their micronized creatin. Creatin has been shown to improve brain health, especially for the aging brain. I need that. And of course, you know, we've always known about the muscle building effects. So this is my morning routine every day and I'm encouraging you guys to do the same. Use our code. Thank for savings. Plus, it's the only way for them to know that this advertising is being heard. Otherwise, they just think you're some random dude that clicked on an app. Do it. Alright, finished in 18 weeks cycle 650 test and HCG at a thousand IU per week plus an AI. He says as Astridal was 350 P.M. and I managed to drop it. Last bloods were mid-range. I plan to jump on TRT. I struggle to maintain and arrest sometimes. I feel like loss of sensitivity. I don't have the same libido as pre or during cycle. What would be wrong now considering the bloods look perfect? Thanks for the education. So he said his E-suggestion is fine. What's his testosterone model? He doesn't say. He says last bloods were mid-range. What was he talking about? Ishajim before that? So was he saying each of his mid-range or what? My Astridal was around 350 P.M. and I managed to drop it. I don't know what he means. My managed to drop it. Well, I'm assuming that when he was on cycle, is Ishajim was 350 which is just around double top end P.M. And then he's taken the AI and brought it down. But the relevance is where Ishajim, where Ishajim testosterone now. And free test. Yeah. So that is a number as we need to know before we can really comment on that question to be fair. All right. Can you get a female pregnant while on testosterone or maybe with the SCGT-HCG2? He says ORTRT. You can definitely get a female pregnant while on cycle. I've done eight twice. You've done it. You were on gear bolt-times. Were you on full-blown cycle cycles? Oh yeah. Yeah. Full-blown cycles. No, can't get it. Degger as well. Deker too. There ain't no stopping Dave when he wants to get a job done. That's all he got. So two explaining the processes. Are you going to explain the process of how you made babies? Yes. Because that's not for the show day. That's the different program. You get your finger and you stick it in the real. And you wiggle it about a bit. And that's how you make babies. So in a natural individual obviously, FSH and LH come down from the Ptoot. LH stimulates test, FSH stimulates perm production. Testosterone levels within the testes are extremely elevated in comparison to circulate in blood levels. I think it's about 50 times. Okay. Testosterone itself can stimulate the stiritori cells to produce sperm. So when you go on cycle, obviously your signal hormones stop working. But you have elevated testosterone levels. And that elevation and circulate in testosterone can still stimulate the stiritori cells to produce sperm. I would argue from experience, not scientifically, but from experience, that maintaining healthy level of testosterone via TRT would probably be more beneficial towards fertility than having a very low testosterone level because you've come off and you've failed to recover. Because at least having circulate in testosterone levels will aid sperm production through that direct stimulation. The reason you use HcG alongside TRT is because it increases something known as ITT, which is inter-testicular testosterone. Hence, creating a more positive environment for testosterone to stimulate the stiritori cells to produce sperm. If you want direct stimulation of those cells, you need HMG. I've worked with the number of clients who, um, when I say a number, it's under five who have unintentionally gotten there, lady, or some girl they're asleep in with pregnant during a cycle, unintentionally, and then I've worked with a number of guys who have intentionally wanted to and worse successful as well. Guys who had been using gear long-term, some of them were able to still stay on and get it done while using HcG. Others came off in ran HcG, Cloman, or HcG, Cloman, and HMG as well. Yeah, I mean, there's no, I don't think there's a fixed right way with this. I've seen, I've helped a few people with fertility protocols, and I would say the same number that have done a PCT, um, have managed to sustain some fertility in the same way that those have gone on TRT. The only thing I will say is that if you do PCT and it's unsuccessful, then there may be a problem actually creating the act in the first place if your test is stupidly low levels, because you're not going to be able to do it physically. John Meadows talked about that when he was trying to get his wife pregnant, and he said that he was struggling because his test was so low, he just wasn't interested, so it's definitely not going to happen if your guys aren't doing the D. Yeah, so that there is definitely, so don't think that TRT is a deaf sentence to fertility, it's not. In certain areas, it can actually be a positive move towards fertility, but the way I always look at it is if you want to try a PCT and recovery, do that first. If that's not successful, then what have you got to lose by going on TRT, at least you're going to feel about it. Yeah, and I'm a big advocate of getting your sperm checked if this is what your goal is. You want to find out what's going on. A lot of times guys are like, well, I'll just get on all these different compounds and stuff. I would prefer to find out first. What's going on? Where are your sperm levels? If they're in the crapper, then we could start a protocol. Then maybe four weeks, six weeks later, let's check again and see, well, is this stuff helping? Because there's another aspect to this. Let's say that we tweak everything out. Your sperm is like super sperm now, right? You still have to rely on, you're only covering 50% of the equation. You have an entire other human being that also needs to be in the optimal position. And that was just, okay, yeah, Victoria, that's where her group wheelhouse is, is helping women and man, a lot of times that's even trickier. I was just going to say, I've had a few people where they've been struggling with fertility and they've done several protocols to try and improve assuming that it was them that was causing the issue because of their steroid use. And it turns out it wasn't, it was their partner that was just wasn't in a position to be able to become pregnant, not them. Yeah. All right, let's see what else do we have here. How about this one from Max Payne? He says, uh, hi's gotten Dave. I plan to do a cycle and then TRT. PCT doesn't help to keep muscle for me. Hmm, what would be the minimum TRT dosage to keep muscle and what would be your maximum TRT dose that you would go to and why? He says he's 84 kilograms around 15% body fat. TRT dose is specific to where your levels are. So for most people, I would start them on 60 milligrams of testi or sip twice a week and then after six weeks, I would test levels and see where they are sitting. I would be aiming for someone to be somewhere around the 20 to 24 and more if we're talking new K. That seems to give the best balance for benefit against managing negatives like look thing they're in the age DL. At that level of body weight, I would suggest that if he's losing size when he comes off cycle or he's needing to run TRT, a buff range in order to maintain size, the problem is not. These hormones, the problem is his diet or his training. Because I've maintained very high levels of mass with legit regular TRT. I wouldn't maintain them for long term but I'd definitely maintain them for a long enough break between cycles. They'd be very little loss. So if you're dropping tons of size and we've covered this loads of time. There isn't TRT for muscle size. There is just TRT. People will come up with sports, TRT and all this and it's just bullshit. They are just excuses to death more drugs because they're insecure and scared of losing muscle. There is no justification over the one thing to use more drugs for longer periods of time and wanting to dress it up in a way so you don't have to admit that you are using high level of drugs that it's effectively anything above a TRT dose which is a dose that puts you at an optimum natural range. That's where a TRT dose is. His walk puts you at an optimum natural range so there's no prequel. It can be very different. I've known guys need high as 300 milligrams. I have no guys need as low as 80 milligrams. It is very much down to the individual but the average tends to be somewhere between 100 and 150 milligrams a week. How do you do with that? If you want to use more that's fine. You can use more that's your choice. It's your body you can do it the fuck you want. I don't have an issue with that. What I have an issue with is dressing or those increased doses has being some form of TRT. They are not. They are a low cycle. It is a very low cycle but they are still a low cycle. TRT is that it is testosterone replacement therapy. It is a therapeutic dose that replicates natural levels. So there is no dose to maintain more muscle mass. TRT is just TRT. That's a standalone entity. If you need to run higher levels of drugs to maintain more muscle mass, then I would start to question your training and your diet efficiency. There are people with very high levels of muscle mass above their natural baselines that will need to run higher dose to maintain that for a prolonged period of time. But not an age 3 kilos or an age 5 kilos. That's where I was going. There is something on the diet and training that you can't maintain. Question them for him. What are you defining as muscle? You are on cycle. You are on cycle. You immediately gain 8 pounds in the first two weeks. Then from there you gain a pound or two every week and you are up 20 pounds. After you come off cycle are you dropping 8 10 pounds out the gate but you are still 8 pounds up? Or did you drop 20 pounds? Because the reality is that the weight that you gain isn't really necessarily muscle. You are going to get more partitioning into the muscle of glycogen or fluid retention. All of that. And that is just temporary. Whether you are on to your tier not that is going to go away when you come back down to normal levels or come off. Yeah. I mean I can fully appreciate an argument where PCT isn't sustaining size because you are not recovering. If you do a cycle to a PCT and you don't recover and you have got low test level yes you are going to drop muscle tissue. That is definitely a given. But if you are going on TIT all you need to do or all you should need to do is replicate natural levels. And even someone who is 56 to pound above baseline should be able to hold the vast majority of any muscle tissue they have gained for 10 to a week before they start seeing any sort of negative dip. If everything else is on point unless there is something just particularly unique about you as an individual when it comes to genetics and muscle mass. I have seen people hold muscle for very extended periods of time with legit TIT dosing, upwards of 6 months plus. But for most people what I have seen is around the three month mark you may see a little bit dip in performance and most people are definitely going back on at that point anyway. I will give a really great example of a guy who just did his first cycle. So we worked together. He competed last year in our state championships here in Michigan. He did it naturally in classic and he did really good in the novice division. I can't remember where he placed in open. Conditioning was awesome. Obviously, the problem is his first show. He wasn't as big as the guys that were at the top of that class. He decided after this contest season I wanted to do a cycle. But I wanted to compete naturally first. I wanted to get a good foundation. So we get his test levels checked before he does a cycle. Testosterone isn't great. It is lower end of normal. We do the cycle and now he's come off. He's done his PCT. We're I believe four weeks after PCT is over. We're going to wait another four weeks and then we're going to get his labs done again. But he's feeling good and get this. So he is still gaining now after the cycle is over. We were able to go. He wasn't fat. He's still not fat now. He's still see the outline of his abs and everything. He is like in the upper 190s and each week now we're still going up about a pound every week, every week, every week and he is a good month after PCT is over. So like because he's at a lower weight. I think he can keep doing that. Had he been 260, I wouldn't see him going up a pound going up a pound. You don't even know? No, no, no. Yeah, I mean if you're 60, 80 pound above where your baseline was when you started then obviously I agree that there can be an increased need for hormones to be elevated to maintain that. But even then even guys are quite away above their baseline, you know, natural muscle levels. They'll usually hold muscle for a couple of months before they start seeing any degradation. Yeah. All right, how about this one? This was a response to some stuff we were talking about last week. He says, mast sucks. Don't understand all that like it. It adds zero muscle for me and it makes me feel, it makes me very flat, just awful. I've never found a, my response to him Dave, I've never found a compound that actually is like anabolic that actually makes you flat. I'm just wondering if it's an eachageen level issue. That could be an interesting point. That's the only thing I can think of. Yes, it is an eachageen level issue. It's that the research is going to go as we've discussed in the past on paper, mast is a stir. So it doesn't lower history of blocks receptors, but in reality, I don't know, vigorous stravis, as got documents, you know, as got evidence on this as well from the in person. I do see mast's lower some people's issue. Yeah, I've seen it for some, for sure. Yeah. So it's definitely is capable of lowering history. And it may be theness individual that that's what's happening andization is going to load. It's why he's not getting much in the way of gains and he's feeling flat. Yeah, I guess that would be a possibility. What in the, hmm, all right, what else do we have here? I think we had a couple of petro questions. Yeah, Patreon question here from Diego. He says, what would be the ideal rest time between sets? And are there breathing techniques that I should consider? Breathing techniques. Breathing techniques, Dave. You know, like the thing you do with your lungs? Well, for listered. I don't know. I don't know. Maybe he means like between sets. Maybe he means like, should I be doing something specific? I don't know, Dave. I'm going to tighten a breathing technique between sets. But I would say you want to keep doing it. Yeah, that's recommended. Yeah, I read that. I had a bad habit of holding my breath on the centric to the point where I've even gone a bit because I've got to breathe, especially when you've got those last grinders, you know what I mean? And I always found if I was on something that was good being a particularly slow rep for whatever reason, beat deliberate or beat because it was a last grinder and it was ever. The point where I had to take a breath, I was a sudden dropping power at that point. But in between, I would just suggest that you regularly or breathe in as quickly as you can. You want to get away from a pungentid state into a controlled, regulate, breathe and say it's quick as you can. And a lot of that's going to be down to your cardiovascular fitness as well. But yeah, I've always tried to control my breathing in a sense of deep and control breaths, but never actually used any sort of technique for that. It's just been a case of trying to get breathing back to a recovery point. How about, Kyle Becker says, square breathing? I think Kyle means like box breathing. Yeah, I mean there's that, that will help with all sorts of things, including stress and anxiety as well. But he's, you know what, I just realized I had got actually got some at lined up for for Uncle Dave's and I've forgotten it. Did you write it down? Did it, Bollocks? Dave, you're supposed to write these things down. Yeah, I went through it, I mean, I didn't know that, all right, good one, I've forgotten. Yeah, Kyle's talking about box breathing. And it's interesting because this, it'll completely, it's great. Like this will basically, it's the equivalent of like restarting the hard drive, like a hard, hard restart on your computer. I don't know if I necessarily do it between sets. But I do. I'm not sure that's going to be particularly recovery beneficial between sets. It will, it will lower heart rates and stuff. But I think post set you wanting to get decent levels of oxygen in. So I would just be a case of good solid deep, regulate it breathing, rather than the box. Box breathing I use in, and basically it's going to affect the sympathetic nervous system and and bring you down, you know, release that fighter flight, get you down into that rest and digest and it man, it works amazingly. Like if I'm under anxiety of any type, I use it. When I do any type of like shooting competition or I take a class where you're on the timer, there's a lot of pressure on you know, which it's intentional. They put that pressure on you because then it's harder to like do intricate movements with your hands and be able to keep track of counts and numbers. So when you get ready, I start box breathing and I'll run through an entire cycle and it exactly is Kyle saying you, they have little gift or gifts. What do you call it? Jeff or a gift. Dave, the little pictures that move on the internet. I think it's a gift. I don't know. Guys comment, comment and tell me because I really don't even freaking know. But it's like a moving little picture for, you know, four seconds. It's a fork or a fork count inhale, fork count hold, fork count exhale, fork count hold. Even the Navy seals use it before they like bust in and like you know, do some crazy Navy seal stuff. So are you going to use this before you go mad in the mini version of Kildoza? Want, want, want, want. Dave, my goal is to save humanity. Let me tell you that. But it does work. Do you do, I know you've talked about meditation. Do you do box breathing ever? I don't. I tend to just do a regular, control breathing count. But the principles, exactly the same, the idea of the box breath is that because you hold it. Yeah. It throws you out of your natural instinct to try and take a breath and, and there's fraud you out of an instinctual rhythm and creates a forced rhythm that then means everything comes down and you get control of it. I mean, generally speaking post-working sets I was usually Kildoza's it's get like gift but without the tea. So it's a gift. I, I would usually find the last thing I had at the end of a work in set was any level of anxiety. I was food. You know, I mean, I was just, yeah, I wanted oxygen. Just trying to catch your breath. Yeah, but there was, there was no level of height in this at that point. I was just like, fuck, fuck, I wait, self-made. Yeah. All right. How about this one from Luke over at Patreon? He says, I was doing flat bench. And he's a new Patreon subscribers. So thank you very much for your support, Luke. He says, I was doing flat bench back in October of 2023 and I felt something in my shoulder rip. It sounded like paper tear. Turns out it was a hundred percent rupture of the super spinatus in my left shoulder. I had a super spinatus tear in 2022 or 2021, I think. It wasn't a complete rupture. Thankfully, and I healed it. He said, I had the surgery on 12 27, 23 and it was released to begin to push again. But I am starting over or at least it feels like I'm starting over. I started for I use of generic growth about two weeks after the surgery been on that daily ever since. So my question is adding in a load dose of anovar to assist healing alongside with the growth. He says, I'm a 160 T or T per week. Also, I'm 37 years old for information. He says, love the show. Thanks again, Luke. Right. The day was December last year was that when he had the surgery. Yeah, so yeah, 12 27 here, the procedure done and was just released to begin to push again. Right. Um, that seems a long recovery. I know it's quite a complex area of the body, but it's a four four months. Yeah, that was really pretty enough. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I, I, with any of the tears I've re-hubbed, I found it was, I mean, yeah, it will help. But I found the problem with any of the chemical adressions was that they helped the tissue recovery, but didn't necessarily mean that everything was strong. And I still needed to go through the extra high size rehab to build up the strength of the component that I'd recovered, but it was killer or standard. Yeah. So I, I did very much, I started with higher sets of say 30 reps, lightweight and then be daily or weekly or biweekly depending on what it was. I was working on, I would reduce the rep by one or two and increase the weight by a very small amount. So gradually over a period of three, four months, I got back into working weight. And because it's, it's volume of load that's going to strengthen a tender. He's not necessarily, though the drugs will help the, the, the tissue, everything knit together and be repaired. He's not going to build that integral strength without exercise. That's where it needs. I mean, this is on on a no next size tendon and a ballics will actually weaken it, but what stops it from the, the caveat of this, the trade off of this is in every tendon rupture in anabolic tendon you are, I'll, Sarah uses, they've never seen a weak intended. But when they add anabolic to a tendon in a petri dish, it weakens the tendon and the reason is exercise. So the anabolic allows us to move more load, which means the, the tender gets more stress and gets stronger. So in an actual exercise format with anabolic use, yes, you see tendon and take the to increase, but it's the exercise that is creating that tendon and drink to increase. When you use anabolic tendon and anonic exercise format, it actually weakens it. Which is why if you look at some of the early steroid warnings, it was steroids where we contend and increase the risk of muscle tests. When actually it's the exercise combined with the anabolic and allowing you to use more load from the anabolic that has a net increase in tendon integrity. So the anabolic is not going to have a huge impact on the recovery in that sense, but it will allow more load to be moved quicker, which will help with tendon integrity. So the key factor there is the training, so I would get back to physical rehab as quick as possible because that's the thing that's going to make the big difference. Yeah, so one thing I didn't understand until I tore my super spinatus was that it's those therapy exercises that are supporting the structures that allow you to do the overhead movements that allow you to train your shoulders and those were the things that I wasn't dealing with before. Yeah, that's like one of them. You know, definitely Dave's doing the the old school rotator cuff exercise. Yeah, yeah. You know, and so what I ended up doing was I worked. I found three or four exercises that worked really good for me. One of my favorites, I don't know if you guys have seen this, you use a short band between your arms so that we have to pull it apart just slightly and then you go up against a wall with a foam roller and then you roll the foam roller up and down and oh my god, that was my absolute favorite hit me up Luke if you want me to show you a demo on that exercise. I've got a good one and I think I have a few videos that I have saved privately on the channel that I just sent to my eyes. Yeah, I'll be careful Luke of what pictures he sends you. Yeah, not those videos, that's on my own fans guys. That's just completely different description. Subscribe to the description service. Go be picked to the D in that said. Just be careful. So you're absolutely right, you nailed it and I worked those things in as part of my shoulder exercise. So instead of like going in and saying okay, I'm going to do push, which is going to be chest and shoulders, I do the traditional overhead press lateral raises. I would start out with those movements first. Also supplement wise. I don't know if he's using collagen. That's when Dante turned to me on to collagen. I started using true nutrition. Hydrolyzed beef collagen. I used 30 grams a day for like the first six months. Now I back down I used 20, but I use that every day, makes it in my coffee. And I also am using or had used during that time you see two. Not the movie you see two, but under, not under construction, but it's under nature type two collagen. So hydrolyzed beef collagen, you get type one in type three collagen, which are two of the things that will actually help to rebuild connective tissue. And then under nature type two collagen is the third form that you don't get through using collagen supplement. So those are the things you really want to get in your body. And then the anofar, what would you think? Would that be a good move then with all of this stuff in play? I'd find the anofar more soft tissue than to tend to relate it so I think it would help more with it a most military rather than a tendent damage, but it definitely won't do any harm. I'd also be considering BPC. Oh yeah. Yeah. It's a good move too. Oh, it's my timer. Oh, God. You've got your phone on in the pot. Cost. Oh, we upset children. Don't we disappointed we've got. Yes, everybody. Tell us how disappointed you are. All right. I think that was about it. There were a couple more, but we usually can't get to all of them. Dave, I know that you've been working long and hard and that you had a great uncle, Dave's advice for us today. You wrote it down because it was so important to share it with the show. Didn't you? I did have a really good one. You know, I'm tilted. I've really was proud of yourself. I was proud of myself. I actually couldn't even want to know. I've been to make it up on the spot. You're going to remember it. You're going to remember it too like three minutes after we get off the air. It will be three o'clock in the morning. I'll be starting the bog of it. It's a shit or something. It will just pop into my head. So, I'm going to say something. I'm not sure what it is yet. No, I'm not. I'm formulating it. No, I have a thing. It's not that I don't know what it is. It's how I say it in the right way. Okay. So, I've been in the Bodly Building World. Thirty six years. Okay. Metal a lot of people. Metal a lot of amazing physics. Thank you. Thank you. Unfortunately, not met as many amazing human beings. I've also been fortunate to know a lot of very successful financial people, but not as many successful human beings. I think we live in this, we're in this constant drive to be the better you, the better me. But that usually involves around us being better financially or better visually. And we don't seem to focus on being the better version of you as an actual person. And I think we get our balance theory heavily screwed a lot of the times and sometimes we get to the point where we have made great physique success or progress and great financial success or progress. But actually that can be at the cost of being the better person and being the better individual. And I think very often we neglect ourselves. You could say we don't nurture our souls. We don't nurture our spirits. Probably sounds a bit too hippy-fired for me, but I think people get what I'm going with it. You know, there is, yeah, pursue your dreams, pursue your materialistic dreams. I have no issue with someone who being successful financially and being rich, crack on mate well done. Pursue the best physique you can do. Great. But never let it be at the cost of you as an individual remain your morals, remain your integrity. Keep your honour. Too many people are too willing to sell their souls or their friends or their family to achieve financial gain. I'm not going to be wrong. There's always going to be sacrifice if you want to be the top of your tree. But you don't have to sell yourself. I like that. I think that that's really a good one. I can think of people offhand to me, fit that where I've seen like, oh wow that person is really successful, but man, I don't want to be that person either. You know what I mean? Like I know what they've done to get where they're at and the way they treat people and I'm like man, I wouldn't trade that if I had to treat people that way. I mean, I mean, I met a woman at the phoenix expo and it was business to business. I could she was selling a bag called an exercise brick. Quite a little weak concept and they bolt together to make multi-packs and everything else. And she was definitely an older lady. Very, very nice woman. And we were talking about business and we were talking about business growth and business development. And particularly we were talking about e-viles growth and development and how I I mentioned that e-viles are company as within our employees as a very strong family sort of core and family feel. You know, we know the people that work for us, their friends, you know, and we all get on. And I said I didn't want to lose that and she said she had a business with over 400 employees. She knew every individual one of them. She gets a great got difficult at that number employees but she knew every individual one of them. She sold that company for several, maybe even been something like 40 million. It was a big number. Good for her. But the point was this was somebody who was incredibly financially successful run a very successful company but never lost sight of who she was. And she was lovely. She was intriguing, amazing, interesting and unsuccessful all at once. You know, and it's just like, you know what, that's someone I can look up to. That's someone I could aspire to be. Whereas I know people who are very financially well-off, that are just shit. That's beautiful. I think we all do. I think we all do, you know. It's really amazing when you can find somebody that was able to stay true to themselves. You know, it brings me reminds me of when we were at the Arnold Andrea Shaw mentioned some advice that Jay Cutler gave her that stood out. And then Ron repeated it multiple times that weekend because it really stuck with him and it really stuck with me too. He said, don't go changing on people. Like be the same person, be who people expect you to be. If you've done gasposings for free for this person, then you keep doing gasposings for free for that person. It's just who you are. That's just what you've done. You know, you don't just go changing on people and you can still make the money you need to make. Jay's been living proof of that, you know. Zack's a great example of that. There's a guy who's been at the top of the game and he's still the same idiot he was there as he is now. I love his cool guy. I absolutely love Zack for it. You know, I mean he hasn't changed one fucking bit and I love him to bits for it. I really do. I I class there's not many people in this industry. I class is true friends. I know a lot of people. I've met a lot of people. Yeah, obviously I work in a podcast with a complete dick, but that's just a pain I have to go through. See Dave says that to the people he likes. If he if he was like, yeah, scats are okay. Guy, I'd be like, oh God, Dave must not like me very much. He's totally normal. Yeah, yeah, that was the like you. Zack, Zack, I have all the time in a world for. Yeah. Yeah, he seems like a really cool dude. People actually mentioned last week they're like, hey, you guys should get Zack back on sometime. Yeah, that'll get his bond again. Yeah, yeah. I had some other questions about British stuff. We can hold off on that. Just, you know, I always have various questions to learn more about, you know, my heritage where my people came from before we decided to leave your people. We can get to that another time. And what else did we have? We had some, we had just a few other random bits and Bob's. Oh, somebody did mention they said they just watched under construction for the first time. He said it watched under construction one into a few months back. Absolutely loved any chance of a director's cut wish they were longer. He said he and he'd like a bloopers reel. Do you were there any good bloopers from the movie that you remember? Yeah, to have to speak to Jim. So email JG film services at gmail.com and speak to James. I've sort of wanted to do a three. Really? Yeah, just where we are now. Just where we are now. You know, but James, I don't think James has the appetite for it. I mean, the the films took a toll on both of us in different ways. And I think he's quite literally probably a bit. He kind of moved away from a lot of it too. I think he's been more into guitars and stuff last time. Yeah, he still does the film work and everything, but I think he knows it's to do it just this is going to take a real commitment. And I think he's almost intimidated a little bit by that now because I get it because it I say it took a big toll on both of us in different ways and the hundreds, thousands of hours of footage yet to edit. Yeah, God. Yeah, to to I mean, where am I? Two was filmed over 18 months. There was a she-load of content. Yeah. So there's gotta be some there's gotta be like two more movies within that if you wanted, you know. Yeah, I'm sure if you wanted to string out, we could definitely go with Buffy's son, but he doesn't want. He also doesn't want to dilute the quality of of what we produce, which yeah, I though I don't like the second film in a lot of ways. I had not because it's not because of the production, you know, I mean, I had to do great his production and I do great what he produced. But yeah, I had so wouldn't mind doing a third just a sort of where we are now and you know, talk about Eval and not the health stuff and everything else that's gone on. I'm not sure if it was B as hard it's in. Yeah. And also probably a bit more get to know me as a person sort of film. Yeah, I would watch it. I think that all of our listeners would watch it. Even if he had some excerpts that he wanted to put out on the channel, I think that people would want to watch that. I did have one other thing I forgot about. So I'll tell you what. Yeah, guys, true nutrition.com user code thinks Trump sports nutrition for those you in the UK supplement, source.ca for Canadians, Eval blood analysis, get your lab were done by Dave. And next week we're going to talk about this. This guy got 30 seconds here, Dave, and then we'll leave. So this is your cliffhanger because we're going to discuss this on the next show. Enjoy magazines. Then download readly and try it free with over 1,500 magazines for 7 pounds 99 a month. Have your favorite magazines on your screens anywhere anytime anyone readly for everyone. Wait for it. Who is that? Share it or keep it to yourself. Online offline or you can come and see me. This is that guy. We'll talk about that next week, guys. We're another episode of the Dianstuff podcast. We'll see you soon. Thanks, Dave. pleasure.

And he was like, you're gonna turn pro, you're gonna turn pro and fans like, okay, whatever. Am I right ahead, Michael Lockett? Yeah, she looks like that. And we're popping up and I look at Alexis, he's some miles, looking Michael Lockett's arm, I'm like, what am I doing here? I'm a pro, I'm a pro, and then, hop it off, John Meadows walks into the pump of room and it gets really quiet. And I'm never forget this. He goes to the corner and I always love John. He was a very big supporter and I was a teenager. He always helped me out as much as he could. And I remember if he goes to pull down his pants and he like kind of booms the whole room. And all you see is his hamstrings and glutes and I'm like, I was really like, holy. I'm like, what am I doing here? And at that point, I'm like, I'll just go up there to do the best I could. And I was already, you know, like, good, I've never just had fun. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweating Gear with Coach's Skip Hill. Andrew Barry, I'm Scott McNally and today, we are joined by the one and only dominant Cardone. What's up, brother? How you doing? What's up, guys? Joining you for a second time this time with, was that connection, you said, I'm in the dark, but I'm here. That's all right. You get the mood lighting going. We appreciate it. All of our programming is brought to you by tuneetrition.com. You could use our code, think for additional savings. If you're in the UK, you can check out Strong Sports Nutrition for some great health supplements and health stacks. If you're in Canada, go to supplementsorst.ca. They've got great deals that change week to week. Thank you to everybody who's supporting the program through Patreon. And I'm looking forward to this. I mentioned before, this is our second try, guys. We tried doing this once. This time it's going to work. Everything looks good. Sounds good. But I had already told Dom before, man. I've known who you are, like, literally since you were a kid, and you had a better physique than I ever have in my entire life. Basically, as a child, you know. Thank you for joining us, man. Thank you, guys. Again, like I said before, thank you, guys, a family on. I've been watching your guys show when all your shows got for quite some time. And I haven't been a podcast in a while, so it's really good to be at yours. So this episode, guys, I literally just got back into town. And I'm not prepared. So I'm just basically here to enjoy with everybody else. And Skip and Andrew are going to run this thing. So guys, take it away. Where did he start? I got you. I want to start from the beginning because I've been falling you, Dom. Obviously, I'm in your friends now, but I've been falling you since I saw you win the Eastern's in 2014. And I say this before, but on the East Coast, that's like a right-up passage show. There's Atlantic States, there's Eastern USA. You're in front of Steve, Nigerian front of Steve Antiler. The judging panel's great. It's in a great venue. And Dom was a happen to win that show. How old were you when you went to the show? And even after that, can you tell us, like, what got you into body building? So when I won the Eastern in 2014, that was two weeks before the national, that was 21. That year, I didn't even plan on doing national, which I'll get into. I started body building when I was 15. You know, I was played football in my whole life since I was a kid. I was going to my sophomore year in high school. And I actually told this story briefly on professional muscle the other day and the form I had on the ones in the wild. And they just, the coaches opened up the door to the weight room and just said, like, I had that. And we had no idea what we were doing. But there was leg machines there. It was a leg extension. It was a leg press on kids were squatting. So my first ever workout was legs, which happened to me, my best body part. And I had no idea what I was doing at least I thought. And the next day for the next two days, I couldn't walk. I never worked out. And my mom didn't like that because I couldn't walk to the point where I couldn't go to school. Oh, God. Oh, God. That was something wrong with me. And so then I started researching. So I researching how to put on muscle, how to get stronger. YouTube was just getting popular at the time. And then I see videos of Jay Colon, Ronnie Coleman. And that was it. I said, I wasn't playing football anymore. And I competed in my first show when I was 16. I couldn't find that history. Was that a NPC show or was that like a different organization? Yes. So that was the NPC at the, I don't know if it still is. Excuse me. It was a Steve So Metropolitan's 2010. I was 16. I won the team class. I beat a 19 year old in the overall. And I placed top five in the open light heavy. I believe, and novice light heavy. Did great that show. I was immediately hooked to competing. And it was actually an interview I did with backstage at day for one boat and our explosive time. And I told them my goal was to do team nationals one day. Do you want to keep random on the driven other questions? Yeah. Remember that interview, by the way. I remember that man. And then yeah, by the time you were 21, you had like a legit physique at that point. You weren't like just a 21 year old kid who got lucky. I just wanted to throw that in there. Well, didn't you go to writing the team nationals in the process? So, so 2000, that was 2010, 2000, 11. I did the Eastern. So it was 18 years old. I won the team class. I won the light heavy weight novice. I couldn't have arguably won the novice over. When I placed fifth in the open one every 1000, my DIY marker variant doesn't bunch of guy was a very big class. Did good that show. And then when I was 19, 2012, I did the team nationals. But at that show, I was 205, 206. I won the heavyweight class, but I lost the overall to Cody Montgomery. That's true. I remember that. I didn't lose the overall team nationals. But I wasn't really that prep. I was work on Oscar Auditor, really learned that most of the time we did my body building at that point. I was a comm set major for like five minutes. And I was okay, onto the next goal. I was just happy to be there. And then the next time I competed, like you said, Andrew was the Eastern's. And then 2014 when I was 21, then national's two weeks later. And we all know about the nationals. When you showed up in that crazy condition, I remember talking to, I think it was like meadows, and like a few other people that saw you backstage. And they're like, there's a kid here with just the most sunk in in face. And like we don't really know what he looks like. Because you don't only had what? Three or four or five, maybe amateur shows at that point. So you weren't like a household name quote unquote. And I remember someone telling me, like I just knew that guy's gonna be peeled when he peels it off. In sure enough, the guy's job, I can't remember if it was John or if it was someone, they're like, their job just drops and holy shit. This guy is in crazy condition. What was that prep, like, and were you work with Oscar then? You know what's funny is, I was actually work with Chad and coach for that prep. But what funny is, everybody talking about how they crazy conditioned that show yet, I don't see it in the pictures. But I remember seeing John backstage, I was nervous as hell, I wasn't gonna do mash and was the chair was like, no, you should do it. I didn't wanna do it until it was like 25 or 26. I was like, okay, if you tell me do it, I'll do it. And then I was backstage and then I'll talk about the prep a bit. On my left, I had a Lexus room, we were following each other's prep on Facebook. And he was like, you're gonna turn pro, you're gonna turn pro and fans, okay, whatever. On my right, I had Michael Lockett. She was like, yes, and we're popping up and I look at Lexus, he's some miles looking Mike, Michael Lockett's arm, I'm like, what am I doing here? I'm like, all right, what am I doing? And then hop it off, John Meto walks into the pump of room and it gets really quiet. And then forget this. He goes to the corner and I always love John. He was a very big supporter and I was a teenager. He always helped me out as much as he could. And I remember if he goes to pull down his pants and he like kind of booms the whole room. And all you see is his handstrings and glutes. And I'm like, I was really like holy. What am I doing here? And at that point, I'm like, I'll just go up there and do the best I could. And I was ready, you know, like, whatever, let's just have fun. Yeah, I won't. I won't have winning the class and getting my pro card that day, which was, which was incredible. But the prep was, like I said, I had no intentions of doing national. It was just do-eastern's, try to win-eastern's and then improve for a few years before I even think of going to Nationals. But working with Chad that prep, I mean, it was all pretty damn basic, which was great. And it worked. I do think doing Eastern's two weeks before Nationals worked with my favorite because I came in to Nationals 10 pounds heavier. And he was also there in person, see me car bumping stuff. Yeah. But yeah, I remember when I won the Eastern's, he was usually doing Nationals. And I was like, okay, I mean, you can think so. And it worked out in my favorite. Well, for 21 year old kid, too, I mean, that's a pretty big expense, not to mention how intimidating it is to go to the Nationals. You can go in down. Yeah, I mean, was it down in Miami then that year? Yes, yeah. I mean, so for like, you know, a guy from the New York area, you're like, man, okay, I got to have a plane ticket. Like, this is a big deal. I'm sure like you were intimidated just like, I actually have to travel for a show for the first time. Was that a pretty big deal for you? You know what's funny is actually when I won the Eastern, it was either right before after one of the Eastern's got taken up as an athlete. It wasn't a paid contract or anything or at least they said not until I turned pro with that's another story. But they covered all my fees for the show. So they were like, no, go ahead, do it. So they don't get great. But for me traveling to the show, I wasn't really nervous at all. It was when I'm in any prep. And then we could even talk about my New York prep later on. No matter what prep I did, either was when I worked with my dad doing concrete, where when I was in high school, I always prepared for everything. So having to go to another state, I was like, okay, I have my food with me. What's the worst I could happen? I'm over prepared. And whatever happens happens, you know? And that's another thing too is, you know, even though I did get nervous backstage and nationals, I always put in my mind that all my shows. And I truly did whatever I could and all my preps. And whatever happened happened, that's why it wasn't a percent when I lost to a T national ball. Because I know training with Oscar every session was as hard as I could. And I know I never cheated my diet. I never give it to my cardio. So I was like, okay, maybe I'm just not good enough yet. But one day it will be. So going to national is it was color, right? Let's just see what happens. You know, I went there ready to, I knew I would be at my best, but the rest was out of my control. I got an asshole. I want to jump in really quick. I just before we get too far. I wanted to ask what it was like training with Oscar Arden. Because he is that where you're going? Yeah, because I dreamed of training with Oscar. Now, did you train ever at his house in his home gym that he had set up? Dude, so I've heard stories that like the police had been called because they thought like a murder was going on in Oscar's house when they hear the screaming. His basement was out, put it this way, man, when I put my home gym together in my basement, I thought about Oscar. Like to me, that was a dream gym. He had all the cool equipment was all just stuffed down in there. You literally trained with him. Like you were a kid at the time in that gym. The same gym where like he had great pros at the time coming down to. You know, I have to say Oscar is kind of, we had a fooling out. Okay. Nothing again. I hold nothing against him because if it wasn't for him coming into my life eight weeks out from team nationals, maybe I don't know, maybe wouldn't be here right now talking about, you know, wedding nationals and stuff. That's how much he impacted me when I was a teenager. And yes, I did train like this house and yes, those stories were true. And that gym was maybe three times a size of my office, which isn't big at all. But you had everything in there. And I have, yeah, we actually owned a gym together that never really got off the ground because of COVID. But we aimed to make a bigger version of his gym for our clients back in New York. This is years ago. When you're walking to that gym, there was just a feeling about it. I mean, there was there since the six to nine days. There was you have all of your birth victim Martinez. I mean, the list goes on about the guy you had in the guy. The guy you had in there. So when you went in there, it was like time to get the business and training with him. I, there is no, I don't think there's any coach any trainer on this planet that would push you as hard as that man does. No kidding. That is, and I trained with so many pros, so many guys. I mean, a lot of guys today may have down on and said it was overdoing it. Yeah. But you know what? It was, I can't put it. We're worried how incredible the feeling was. Yes, it may work. You had to make sure you ate for it too. But those leg days, I mean, that doesn't matter how many times you did leg days with Oscar, you had those butterflies going to the feeling because he's going to try to beat you down in some way. But what I had to say as well, as an artist, his training was. And it was the most incredible training I've ever had. He did teach people to listen to your body. You know, how did you wake up today? How do you feel today? I feel like you could mentally handle the training today. So I, a lot of my coaching philosophies really started forming when I met Oscar because his, his training philosophies were basic but brutal, his nutrition were very basic. But he did teach me incredibly about the mental side of things and listening to your body, learning your body and expanding your mind a little bit. And then we've heard Kai go in the ranch. He took it a little bit of a board. But in the properties where he is today because of Oscar, you know. And you know, to this day, I still, and we could talk with the New York pro pepper as well. We're being asked and kind of linked back up together for training. But yeah, if it wasn't for those sessions with Oscar and really teaching me, I mean, I didn't be able before I was pushing to my limits with my dad and Jim. But when me and my dad are training with Oscar together for teenagers, that's when I got to see a side of body, but I'm like, oh, wait, you're sad trained with you guys too? Yeah, so we'll get into how I started coaching my dad out of the 16. I was going to bring that up. I was going to bring that up. Yeah, it was going to bring that up. But I was actually getting ready for teenagers on the George Farrer for a really George Farrer. And to be honest, the attention just wasn't really there. And I tried talking to him about it. And then finally, told him, listen, you know, I called him up. I said, you know, Oscar, because my dad's on a training Oscar weeks before me. Because he was right there, somebody should do so then. And I had the opportunity. And so eight weeks out from teenagers, that's when I started when Oscar he took over everything. And that was it. And me and my dad were training with Oscar together. And we were just, I mean, we were just destroying each other and that, Jim. That's amazing. I just couldn't imagine, you know, because the bond you must have with your dad. Kind of like we had Carlos on recently, you could tell the bond with his dad is great. But the bond you must have with your dad, because I mean, it's just something that goes on said when you you've been in the trenches with a body or a training partner. Yeah, years up years grinding it out, pushing each other to these crazy limits that you just know other people couldn't push you to or couldn't handle. And you did that with your dad. Like that's that's that's really something man. That's that's that's pretty cool to hear to hear. Pretty awesome. Yeah, and that's we've always been really got extra close when he started a body doing it to my first show. And then, you know, we started training together. I coach him for a long period. Coach him through our role he shows that he did. And then obviously if my mom taught we started writing motorcycles and we've done everything together. We fought together. We trained together. Like we, you know, we've done everything. And if it wasn't for him, I wouldn't be in any of the positions on it. You know, that's that's for game short. What was it like, Prepping him? Honestly, I wish every client was like my dad. And I also for the record had no idea what I was doing. I was 16 years old and I first coached a factory and my dad, since it was week after my free first day, a week after my first show, he says, can you make me a diet? I just want to put on some muscles. It said, sure. Two weeks later, he was, I want to start training. You know, okay, a month later he was, I want to compete. This is a month and never bodybuilding in his life. Try to say, okay, he goes, but you had another thing at this conversation because it was at our kitchen counter and I'm going to lift you. He goes, I want you to do it. I want you to prep me. I want you to learn how to be a coach. He was just don't kill me. He was just, I don't know how I didn't do that because his first prep. He was working six to seven days a week doing concrete. He has his own business. He was doing eight to twelve hour days. I had this poor man on three hours a car in a day, zero call for six weeks. I was cutting his water three days out. And then he didn't think he was three-show. He looked in his transformation was incredible. But I couldn't have the time to grasp why he looks so good at the conversation. Like he was like he could have went into a master's qualifying show and sweeped everybody a week after. But my mind is cutting grass to concepts of why can't we driving him into the ground with the diet and cardio and diet, relics and stuff. But that's what started and then I did, I started coaching, you know, part time. For years people started offering money. It was all the guys and then eventually I went full time in 2018. But you know, I'm back tracking. If it wasn't for him having the conversation with me, I wouldn't be coaching people. That's amazing. In the funny when we think back to some of the first moves we made with like our first clients. And like, how we look at it now and be like, oh my god, what was I thinking? Like that's the opposite of what I should have been doing. Yeah. And we were convinced we knew what we were doing too. Like the hunters and you couldn't move me off my position back then. I'm just like this or that. Right. I was definitely over the years like a very like, this is my way that's it. But now I think that even from stuff I could year ago, two years ago. You know, but I really think back to what I did with him. And I was like, Jesus, what was I thinking? I think this I didn't have much miles. I think it was learning on the forums and on lighting from factory and guys in the gym. You know, but you know, he's alive and healthy to this day. Thanks. You know, it wasn't for him that when it sparked everything for me. He has an EGFR of like nine, but outside of that. Listen, he has his blood work looks like he's never taken a steroid or bodybuilding in his life. And even with all the toxic chemicals, he is, you know, inhale and absorb. And there's a doing concrete and stuff like that's just that stuff with genetic. But he has to be a tough guy too. He has to be a tough guy to begin with, man. I mean, if he's a blue collar worker working in concrete, I mean his own business. Like, and then it sounds like that's the life that you were raised in, too. It sounds like that's where your work ethic comes from is from him. Yeah, I mean, he even in those preps with all the work that he was doing. There was never he never complaining once he never asked for food. He never deviated. He never did it due less than a car to get home with you, which was incredible. Even on the day of the show, he comes, I remember the first day he competed. He comes rolling into the room, me and my friend Mike were sleeping in the same room. And you would think the day of the show, but what I think of this man, he would be half fed. He will send me a big smile on his face with food for us. Because you guys already go to the show, folks. Wow, but he had me and my family working since we were like five or six. Yeah. So, you know, that's how he came up. So that's how he raised us, you know. So you're no stranger to doing hard labor than and actually like working for a living, you know. I had to do it my whole life. We didn't have a choice like when they brought home, we were the ones and the, or weekends and sometimes it worked on it with him. If we wanted to buy something, you know, my mom would say, go work with you that. Yeah. We had to learn how to use our hands and if we wanted something we had to earn it unless it was a birthday or Christmas and even then, you know, my whole life I was doing concrete or construction. And that was for most of my life. Yeah. Now, obviously, genetically, we pick up, you know, both the genetic predisposition of both our parents. But usually, we pick up more of one than the other. As an example, I tell my kids all the time if you're ever going to get into bodybuilding, better hope like hell, you have your mom's genetics is not very good. Where if you have to who was more genetically superior, where did you get your structure from your your muscle shape, that sort of thing? So this is the crazy thing. It is my dad had a big waist as a part of life. Even when he started bodybuilding. But his legs are massive even before bodybuilding. Mm-hmm. He has wide shoulders, a big waist, massive, massive legs, very dense back. Very small arms, which he was blessed with. And the final thing I started to go to someone was, but my mom had even when she started training right before she got cancer. And right away, she started changing. She had very small ways. She had really good delts, good arms, good shape. So I kind of had a blend of both of them in a way. And my waist was always very small. But even my brothers, too, which is, you know, my brothers and even my sister. All of them, they'll have massive legs for what they do considering my brothers and me, my sister just trains once in a while. They all have some more ways, the pretty wide shoulders. So it was like a blend of the bowl. But I would say my shape definitely came more for my bonkers. My dad had a very rugged hard, you know, dense look. And mine was always like prettier and have better shape. Touch him. Where do we go from here? Andrew? Well, I mean, you brought up your mom. And I know that you were prepping for the New York pro during that time period that she was unwell. Did you want to talk about that at all? And maybe, you know, did that influence that prep? Did it make it harder for you? Absolutely, you know. So I like to share this story because every time I shared it on a platform, somebody reaches out with some similar story. And so she was diagnosed with leukemia October 6, 2014. That was about a month, month or so before nationals or six weeks, whatever it was. So she was undergoing treatment. And she was up and down for a few years. And then I always said to do my first pro show, made 2016. But six weeks out from the show, she went into a coma because they gave her two months chemotherapy before I had a new bone marrow. And she had this build up and her lungs and ask her joys in, she had to be rushed to the hospital. They put her under. And she was supposed to die the first night. She went and set the shot. A kiddings are failing. She wound up being in a coma for three and a half weeks, until we had to make the decision that she couldn't wake her up in the condition. And she was going to die no matter what. So I remember for that prep I was working with Chris and she used for my diet, I asked for a training me in the gym. We started our prep eight months before. And six weeks out, I was around 250. I was in very good shape. I would have been around 240 on stage. But then well this happened. So during the prep, we basically lived in the ICU. We found a closet where we stored our stuff and I would live in this closet. At times. So Oscar were bringing my meals in the Manhattan, training me. I was 50, I think the gym at Duivost 50, I think the gym in Manhattan. I think it was. So this went off a three and a half week. So every once in a while, one home, my dad would kind of do this shift. Because he wouldn't want to leave her alone with the doctor. So we would stay up in the room. So throughout the prep, it was actually a big learning experience. Because I got to see how true stress and lack of sleep can affect the body. There was so many, it was like, I remember very vividly going for a walk on the hospital. The other night, my stomach was just out to here. That's very abnormal for me, especially in a prep. But I wasn't sleeping. There was weird news every day. Either she was going to get better. Either she was going to die. It was very up and down. Then she went and passing, passing away two and a half weeks on, I believe. And at this point, my body was just doing the way. I should have put it off. But I remember calling my dad and saying, I don't know if I should continue this prep. I just don't know. He said, no, when you finish what you started, your mom would want to finish it. You started. So again, mentally, I don't think I was there 100%. Even though I was still pushing forward, doing what I had to do. I think I had to hit me after the show. But a week out, I was around 226 pounds. I didn't look good at all. What I looked very strong out. My body was very tired looking back. And then I think I was 206 after food and water the day of the show. I'm going to be a mound of 206. Wow, my God, bro. The amount of diuretics I was given and the water cut and the no sodium. I never questioned any of my coaches. It's not a thing. I was doing it. I was told, whatever. But I don't even know how I didn't go to the hospital the night before the show. Because I remember having such severe stomach pain that I felt like I was going to play something with static. Let the night pass, live in Europe, pro. Look, absolutely awful. Yeah, that prep. I had to learn and incredible amount of what to do and what not to do. If it came down to these situations in the level of stress and sleep and whatnot, just even the fundamentals of it. But after that show everything kind of hit me because I was kind of brushing off the death and whatnot. I felt away from bodybuilding for a few years and then two thousand and the two thousand nineteen they said, it's time to come back and shortly after I moved to Vegas. That was a whole thing. But yeah, that whole program went to a mental prep. It was just a disaster. Glad I finished with it because who knows what would have happened after or whatever. But I got to learn a lot that prep. See, two mentioned, you know, you got to train with one of the best training coaches out there and it sounds like probably one of the funnest place to train in our school is basement. We also got to train over the last couple of years and one of the coolest newest gyms out in Vegas. Also about the dragons layer and I know you've probably trained a lot with flags and a lot of it seems like a stopping house for like every good pro who's coming through their weather for the Olympia or a lot of guys who've moved out there. How's that been? I know you're in Florida now, but how was that for that time period? So it was, I mean, when I was at Flexus, a very good friend of mine, you know, a very easy he's become family to me. He's helped me out more ways and I can even say, but when I first moved to Vegas and he was to make my comeback in a bodybuilding, this was before the dragon's later was even the flow. And then he would want to move in there and bring in the gym. We became training partners. He was preparing for his comeback and going to the open. And I was going to come back next year and do the New York pro. But training there, I mean, it was it was incredible. Especially training with him, he reminded me a lot about Oscar and who he because he just goes absolutely nuts in the gym and it was a quick reminder out far away. I was from what I used to do. But being in that gym, it was the thing I had to say to him is, me personally, I like training in a gym alone, just my training partner with my coach. That's why I loved Oscar's gym. Could do whatever he want, not have to think about anybody, not have to talk to anybody. That's what we made a room gym for a short amount of time. So I'm that type of person. But being in Vegas and then eventually a half a brand now from Brazil, another good friend of ours, he was training with us for a while. So, troll the training together, it gave me a good feeling of when I first got back in a body building, that bond with my friends from the New York and I started a body building with. But that gym is absolutely incredible. I tell everybody if you haven't changed the stop by in Vegas, stop by it. However, if it's a limpier time, good luck walking around the gym. Because it's an absolute madhouse. I mean, it looked like an Arnold sports festival in there. But between the machines and the people that train there, it's a very friendly environment. The one thing they don't tolerate is, I'm going to say it's you have people being dickheads. And so that's one thing they don't tolerate there. You know, they try to make it as friendly even the environment's positive for everybody. But if it was a great time training there, you know, I was trying to make my comeback there. That didn't pan out through to some health issues that we can go into if you want. But it was incredible. I don't regret moving to Vegas whatsoever even though my body doesn't anymore. I know Skip, you had been wanting to talk about that, right? The health stuff. Yes, you know, I met you at Titan face to face anyway. And down here in Fort Lauderdale. And it was funny I told the other guys and I'm not trying to seem up sequester anything. But it was kind of funny how you right away within five minutes. I'm like, this guy is quite humble. He's quite personable. He's not the typical. It wasn't when I expected. Let's put it that way. You just were, you were just kind of open friendly and kind of, you know, take it or leave it. Y'all shoot the shit with pretty much anybody. So you spoke about your, and I didn't know about it. I felt bad because I felt like I should have known about it. But you were telling me about the mercury poisoning, you know, you were just finishing up at that time. And I was kind of blown away that story because I had heard about it. But I had always kind of blown it off as I've eaten enough tune in my life. And if there was any mercury poison, I'd be green by now. That kind of shit. But you legit did have to deal with that. And I think the listeners really would like to hear what it was you went through and how you came out of that. I actually remember that conversation. Because yeah, I was finishing up my treatment at that point. Going through that was probably one of the worst things I'd gone through my life. I've gone through a lot in the short period of time. So when I moved to Vegas March 2020 shortly after I started getting some weird stomach issues. I actually entered try to help me for a bit of my issues before I even knew what it was a mercury poisoning because I reached out to him. And I thought it was just stomach issue. I know like, yeah, maybe it could be seagull, maybe it could be this. I was consipated. I had to write diarrhea. I was consipated, distension, stomach pain. And then it started turning with the skin issues. I mean, even I'm not talking to tell even now, this is lying. Even now, it aged my face incredible over here. I started getting these bags into my eyes and these weird breakouts all over. It was very hard for me to put on muscle, which for me is extremely strange that there's never happened in my entire life. No matter what I took, no matter what I ate, I wasn't getting any pumps in the gym. I wasn't growing. I wasn't getting any stronger. I was exhausted all the time. Then it started turning with the mentally issues. The severe depression and suicide with the my focus was all over the place. And memory issues, my speech was becoming affected. And then flex moved to Vegas. I told him about my stomach issues. He recommended it work with his name as well in Pankoids. He's up in Canada. He ran since you know the testing and my mercury is off the charts. It was literally off the chart. And I nobody thought the testing, not even myself. But for years, I was a big sushi year. I would eat any one between two to three times a week, 45th of pieces at a clip when I was bodybuilding. When I moved to Vegas, I was eating two and a half a day, the flavor, two and a pack. I was eating a lot of it. We ran the tests and then I actually got in touch with Jason Hull because I know he had mercury poisoning and that retired him, which I was afraid he was going to happen to me. He gave me a whole run down over the phone on what the doctor looked for, what kind of testing to do. I basically took what he told me to hold his doctor and they did it. So all throughout 2021, I went weekly for intravenous DMPS. I took EVTA pill form. They had an active puncture, oxygen therapy from my blood and I did this from June 2021 to December 2021. And the levels went down to nothing. So throughout the time period, I was very up and down. I didn't feel right, but I was getting better as time progressed. But before that was absolutely horrific. Like just going day to day and just eating a thing at a bump on it, I was trying to find my best to come back. But just going through that, that was absolutely horrible. There had to be like terrifying too, especially before you even knew what what it was, man. Am I going crazy? You know what I mean? Between the mental stuff, the physical stuff. I could only imagine. Well, let me go one deeper because I'm wondering to the time frame that you're having these issues versus your your mom's passing. Did you have these issues after? No, I had zero issues after. So she passed away May 2016. I stopped bodybuilding, I was really training for a while. I was a very on and off. It was August 6, 2019. I said, okay, I gotta come back into bodybuilding. And then March 2020 is when I started, when it's when I moved to Vegas. And the guys you started right before I moved to Vegas. But then when I got there and I tracked back, I was eating enormous amounts of fish. Just almost 14 ounces of meal to an on top of the sushi and that things got worse and got worse and got worse and got worse and got worse. The last thing you're thinking is it's the fish. You know, it's like the last thing you're thinking, you know, at that time at least. Exactly. And that's what I'm thinking. And I'm wondering this. And I maybe just maybe I'm thinking differently than everybody else. But did you maybe think is this what my mom had or do I have the chemis or something? Yeah, it had to. All right. I've had because so another thing too is I still get scared to this. I still have a million problems from the mercury. But yeah, at times, that was like, you know, I was like, it could got to be because this would be a cancer, could this be a yes. Yeah, for me, and I'm going to be honest, I tried taking more steroids. Sure. I tried taking less. I tried eating more. I tried eating less. Nothing was doing anything like weight was just falling off me like I had never seen before. My moods were up and down. I felt weak. And I knew my gear and stuff was good. You know, that wasn't even my shoe. I looked up and down and everything I possibly could. But the skip, it was like some people even said, I think you're thinking, you can much of growing crazy. I was like, oh, I'm not. Oh, my body is something is fucking wrong and then when the testing came out, the mercury was off the charts. But that absolutely liked my body. And that doesn't just not. I'm from what I understand about like heavy metal toxicity. Like it doesn't just leave your body on its own like that. You could eat less tune in. It doesn't matter, right? Like, because that's just going to stay until you actually do something about it. Yeah. I mean, it depends on the metal, but mercury actually led stores in the bones, mercury for the most part stores and tissues and connective tissues in the brain. So Kulishy therapy is a must. That's what I went to a Kulishy therapy basically goes in and pulls an adetissue so you can excrete it out. So here in the United States, they don't really recognize it. So you got to be at a pocket and you got to go to a functional doctor. But yet, if you go to Europe, it's something that the medical system takes our research lately. But yet, here in the United States, so many kids are exposed to the many paints, even in the terror, clothing, mercury and food. I mean, it's all over the place and this country, they don't take it serious. The doctors don't know nothing about it. Unless it's a functional doctor. So you have to go through this treatment to pull this out of your bones because it will cause immune problems over time. There was even a story of a child online who couldn't find the help he needed. He was a teenager I believe, and eventually you want to committing suicide. His documents, his journal online, to raise awareness to mercury poisoning. Yeah. Wow. And then I interject. Yeah. I want to share because me and Dom work together for a little while because I assumed from all the symptoms I thought it was like CBO, like he had a small intestinal bacterial infection or something related to that. So we did a detox and I put him on an elemental plan and just to give you an idea of what the home was doing. He was literally four to five meals a day of just true nutrition weigh and either three to four scoops of maltodexrine per meal and one scoop of MCT powder every meal. So anywhere between like 90 and 120 grams of maltoe, which as you guys know, doesn't, you know, you can do that once or twice in a day, but four to five times a day is this is the length that he was willing to go to to try to like get this thing figured out for that time period and we, I don't want any other. For the time that we did that, I felt great. Well, because you weren't getting any fish, you weren't getting any mercury for that time period. So at least it wasn't getting worse. You weren't having the trillation therapy or anything else that was helping to crease it, but at least you weren't adding to it during that time period. And with what we did initially at that, with some of the supplements we did detox your liver, which probably played a small role in helping get rid of some of that extra mercury. But yeah, like, I'll be honest, I didn't think like, oh, he's got a metal toxicity issue. He's got a mercury, that was the furthest thing from my mind. It was really, I was thinking, okay, he's got a bacterial overgrowth that was caused because your symptoms were like, we're almost like textbook, you know? So, no, it's true. Everybody thought the same thing, nobody would have even doctors, I even went to a gastro, which we know how work was taken to be sometimes. Nobody knew what it was, you know, but for that period of time, they felt pretty good. What would you say, stoniopology? Oh, it's not enough. So, you find out that it's mercury, you start the therapies. Can you refresh me? How long did that process take? And how long did it take before you started feeling better? Like, after your first QLation therapy, we were like, oh, wow, I can tell the difference, or was it something that took a while? So, that's actually a great question because that's something Jason, how warm me on. So, my treatment went from June 2021 to December 2021. Yeah, I want to have to be here. Yeah, it was all year and I went pretty much every week. I skipped maybe two or three weeks because I was traveling. Yeah. But what he told me, he goes, when you get your treatment, you're going to feel as high a raise of energy after you're going to feel like a little bit jittery and jettic, maybe a little bit happy, but it's going to go away. So, when you take that therapy, it's pulling out of the tissues, bringing it out, but you're becoming more exposed to it in a way. So, you're going through these ups and downs, you're your screening it, but you're not excluding all of it. So, whatever it doesn't get your innate and out, or it doesn't come out of your bowels, gets redistributed. So, it can go any of the organs that were the brains. So, there was times I felt damn good, my skin would glow to the brain and then there was other times where I just, I couldn't really function until like the next treatment. It would just be the consistent up and down, but throughout the year it got better and better and better and better. And then once I, you know, the levels with that, they said, you don't need it anymore and I stopped, but it's interesting because I would still like to get tested to this day to see if any more has maybe come out because I still view it some of the symptoms, you know, mentally and my skin and stuff and my immune system. I know it's going to take a while, but throughout the treatment is very up and down, but for a while after I felt great. Let me see. So, you were, you were bodybuilding up into that point, you were going to make a comeback. Obviously, this completely sideline, not only that, but like really life in general, what happened after that, because, you know, you know, you had stopped that, right? So, from June 2020 to December 2020, there was nobody building. I didn't even take TRT most of the time. If I remember the shot was horrible. If I remember the shot, I did. I was primarily focused on just getting healthy and just getting this out of my body. Once I got told it was good to go. Beginning of January last year, 2022, I said, okay, now it's time to come back. And that's what me and Flex really started picking things up again. And things started working, again, you know, I went up to 2009, it wasn't the best looking for the need, but I was getting strong in the gym. But it looked like someone put an air hose in you. Because I saw you the second time. I told them. I'm like, I don't know what it must feel like to look like that one day. And then six months later, it looked like you put an air hose in every one of your muscles. I was blown away. I'm like, well, he certainly is feeling healthier. I was too when I, when we saw each other, both our ladies were doing the class show, Dom, and I did a double take when I saw you there. I'm like, Jesus, because I had only seen a picture of you online or video maybe like maybe months prior. And then to see you in person, I was like, Jesus has guys been trained and eating it again. This is crazy. Yeah. So that it was, I normally put a muscle very quick. But I do get very watery and inflating. It just always was that way. So matter of like a matter of three weeks, I like blew up. And then it just got more and more and more. However, looking back on what I was doing, I really should have slowed things down a bit. And I could have, but it was at let's keep training, let's keep eating more, let's keep taking this stuff. But then, obviously, about me, I came, and I obviously, about me testing. So from January to late May last year, that was it. I knew I was coming back. I was going to keep going. I was going to do the New York Pro this year. But I made a decision last. So, flex retired. I remember I got the call from Flex. Before I saw him in person, he said, listen to you. I want to focus on my family. You know, I worked with my health. This and that could be spoken openly about his stomach issues and having to eat. And, you know, kind of played in my mind. You just seem so relieved. Throughout all last year, I just did something didn't feel right. I didn't, I honestly, I didn't feel healthy. And then it was like, too, I spent all this money all this time, I'm getting his marker out of my body. I'm finally healthy. Was it a sign to stop bodybuilding? That's what I was thinking to myself. So late last May, I said, you know what? This has been great. I put all this size on January 22nd. I took my last progress, January 22nd, or June 23rd. I posted my last progress, no, no, no, water came off. I looked insane. But that's what I was like, that's it for bodybuilding. Let me focus on my clients. He deserves all my time and attention and focus on life. And, but you asked if there's no more competitive bodybuilding for me. Right now, right now. Right now, you're really into boxing, kickboxing, martial arts, like tell us a little bit about that because I see some your videos and I see you. Yeah, hold on. I don't want this to get lost. Any gear you have left over on texture. I did. I did. I did. Kind of. I listen. I hate to break your heart as soon as I made that decision. I gave everything away. I went back all the stuff. I was a test on the hand and right. As soon as that was done, I'm like, I am not going back from this. I don't need any of this stuff. I'm starting fresh because we haven't even seen it. I didn't see their whole or nothing. You know, and then once I made that decision, I'm like, I am done with this. So, keep still as you're going to fit yourself. I didn't think I'm like, no, no, no, no, no, no. Real answer. Did you keep the GH though? Exactly. So that I can't. That I wasn't giving that away. It's just too expensive to give away to somebody, right? I got $6,700 in my hand and I'm not just giving this to anybody. Yeah. I always can see that. I did you. So I came off everything cold turkey for four months. When I started on emotional arts training, which I'll get into. I just stopped everything. I was like, let me just stop. I kept a little GH in and then now I run 100 megs of tests. Like every seven to eight days. And then I used up all the GH and I refused to buy more. So. Yeah. So now once I made that decision, it was actually another thing because of flex. 2021, he brought me to my first UFC fight in Vegas. And I was never a fan of anything but bodybuilding. So I was like, he's like the ultimate fan there is. He's good friends with a lot of pop guys, all the guys that UFC know him. And I remember watching his fight in him's during the time my mercury treatment. And I'm like, damn, this is awesome. I love this stuff. I would love to do this one day. So one day when I'm done bodybuilding, I'm going to do this. But little bit I know that time came way shorter than I planned on it too. So making the decision to leave my competitors goes behind me, focus on my health, focus on my clients and focus on life and my living being close to my family now. I was like, this is, I need to go and something to put this energy into. And I didn't even know if I was going to like you because I had no more shoulder. So I was going to go back to what's the level. So I shot a training in extreme contouring Vegas, which is one of the most, one of the best gyms in the world when it comes to martial arts. I started with your gypsy and then I added in Moitai and then now we have wrestling so I trained your gypsy Moitai wrestling and it's one of the best decisions I've ever made in my life. So some days we trained three and a half hours, some days we trained two hours, we tried to train every day if we could, but it's completely given me a new sense of direction. Like I, has become obsessed with it like I did with body when I was a teenager. I just want to point out that you said you switched martial arts for your health. So a lot of people say to see some people should the same thing and they were like, wait, don't you know about brain damage? Don't you know when you can break or tear things? I'm like, yeah, but you know it's like, you know, with bodybuilding and having the best to have in the prior experience of mercury poisoning, I know it has a massive effect in the heart and brain. Yeah. So we know with steroids and weight gain, this isn't the most ideal and I'm not going to lie to you guys. I was a bit scared. Sure. I was trying to come back after my treatment because it was just sticking my head about what Jason always tell me because he retired because of his mercury poisoning and that's how he started his supplement business and focus on his family. So it was in my head, but you know, it was like, do I not do anything? What do I do something? So I was like, let me do this and I went all in on the on the aminane now. You gotta have some time for people like us. You gotta have something in your life that you love that you focus on. So I think we all totally get it, you know? And that's in terms of health. Yeah, you can risk bringing damage and see her as injury and stuff like that, you know, if you're not careful enough. But the one thing about me is I was always scared of a man. It's just been always in my head for years and it forces you to become a cardiovascular fit. Like you have no choice or you're going to feel like you're drowning. And for most of the quadrilists, you know, I felt like I was drowning. And now I'm going to point right to three and a half hours in a day, four hours in a day, whatever it is. And I can go, well, though, I still get gas now because I'm still having, I'm trying to get my weight down still. But my heart feels just healthy and strong in the summer. Been my entire life. You know, so that's been the cool thing about it is a, a definitely feel like I'm alive again, you know? Well, and you only really get hurt in M.M. if you get hit. So it's still getting hit. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I mean get hit is a lot better at it. Yeah. Yeah. That's the problem too. I like getting hit because it's like, okay, now I've got to adapt to the situation. I've got to come back with something. Yeah. So I'm still learning about taking the extremes down to a different level. You know, but it's been incredible. I've been wondering something like, since the start here. So because you've been around for, you've been around since you were a kid and you've seen basically body building evolve. Like, the days when you started compared to the today, you know, we were all there too. It's very different. And I think you have an interesting perspective because you were so young when you started. And when you see the newer generation of body building and see how much it's evolved, I would love to hear what your thoughts are about not necessarily just the pro level of body building, but body building as like a culture today compared to when you started. Because when you started, it wasn't as like mainstream as it is today. And we didn't have like Instagram like we do now. It was a different place. I'd love to hear your thoughts on that. Yeah. So I mean to some, I may come off like, what's the word? I may come off like, maybe a bit sour. But I have to be honest. I'm very upset with the state of body building to the and how people conduct themselves and on a general basis. So back then, back in New York, I was fortunate to have factors in my first course. My gym was full of body builders, but it was very welcoming. It was like you said it wasn't mainstream body building, but the body building was in it. It would help each other be brought each other up. It was a very conducive and supportive environment going to shows was always entertaining. I mean, you could go to an amateur show back then and I would remember working out so motivated for years these shows. You have guys just that you would see in the national ones competing at these regional shows and trying to get requalified. The national of a show is an even the way the media was back then. You remember Flex Magazine online and Musker Development in the forums. There was no social media like it was great to build up of not only the pros, but even the amateurs and seeing guys come up. And today there's no coverage of anything. You know, almost nothing except for the pros, even the way they do the pros is it isn't even because you have social media. But from the way people back then, I wish it were old school. I wish I was sometimes born in the 90s I were a body building. So I can see how well those guys were. I caught the talent and everything I feel in the way. I was a day late and I was short. But I just feel everybody from not everybody for the most of people trained hard back then. They died in harder. They did that cardio. Everything wasn't so over-complicated and most of the most part, most people didn't. There wasn't really any social media to do it for. There was my space and then Facebook and then eventually Instagram and that changed into what it does today. You know, people trained and dieted and competed to win and because they loved it. That was a thing to everybody loved it. But today people do it to feel like they fit in somewhere, which is that's okay to really eat that. But you know, put your body through such stress and spend all this money. You know, you have to love it. You know, you have to have passion in it. If you're going to put your body through all this stress and risk health issues and whatnot and you want to win, you have to love and have passion for it. And today it's like they kind of just do it for social media and Instagram. Like you say their body building, you know, it sucks to see because it's like, it's, it's not what it was. I always asked this. Like, I don't like ask this people. What am I mind? I kind of asked this when I see certain people or I see Instagram. I'm like, if Instagram were gone today, would you still bodybuild? That's right. And there's a lot of yeses and a lot more knows. And my opinion when I see people online or even in the gyms. I and I agree. And I do think over the years, I was kind of losing that fire a little bit because of insecure. I hate my hate social media. I hate it. If I didn't have my coaching business and I wasn't a bodybuild, I wouldn't have social media. I really wouldn't. I would like to live my own private life and it's a whole thing for me to post an Instagram. But over the last few years, especially coming back and just seeing the way people's mindsets have changed when they took a step back from the industry. And how people were conducting themselves, treating one another and the drama, it was always drama in industry, but it was, you know, in circles. And that was just all out there. It's become like, I don't know, it's kind of become almost as circus in some ways. And I don't know, I just wish that the kids coming up today got to see bodybuilding through my eyes when I was coming up. You know, I got to see that part of training, got to see all the pros in New York, got to see all the old true guys that could tell and because that's what gave me that driver, holy fuck, like those were the guys that gave me that passion, you know, aside from me loving what I was doing. And today, you know, don't really a lot of good examples for people to follow them for what you're eating or within the pros. Well, the reality is that I will say this that by having conversations like this, you are giving people an opportunity to understand that and you can see it just in the way that you carry yourself. Having not known you personally, and this is being our first conversation, I could see that in you and that's why I asked you that question. Oh, thank you Scott, thank you. Let's call it me that. I appreciate it. And the other thing I'm thinking is, you know, you've had a lot of great opportunities through the year, getting to, you know, work with Oscar. I is a kid, you know, and you've met a lot of cool people. You mentioned like your friends with flex, you know, everybody. And there's a reason for that. And that's because of the kind of person that you are, I can tell you, man, you're the kind of person that people want to be friends with. And I think that that goes a long way in life. You know what I'm saying? And I think that if people maybe the newer generation were to have some appreciation for that, that we can maybe swing it back around. So I hope so. I hope that anybody who's younger and newer can listen to this conversation and maybe take something from it and then put and look at what they're putting out into the world. I guess. I don't mean that as a lecture, you know, there were bad things back then as well. But I think there were some really cool things that would be cool to see come back around come full circle. You mean like doing a picture and posting about it? It's like, okay, it's Thursday. It's like great, you know? I would even say as simple as something like people working in. When was maybe you guys have had a different experience. But it's literally like people don't want that's their piece of equipment. And the thought of you working in is so 1985 to them. Really? I need to go back to my, yeah, it's an COVID may have made it worse. I'm going to be wrong because God forbid you're going to get your cookies on it. I understand that. But even before it was the same thing, it's literally like their room and until they're done with it, you're not going to, it's just bizarre. How many more sets in? Or you just get started? A bunch. And I just had to laugh. I'm like, God, damn, you just look at you. Like you're treating me like a piece of, and I didn't treat you like a piece of, for being a nobody in the gym. But you don't want me to work in. There's so many of those little things that are so subtle that you know, when I hear Dom talking about how it was, when you started that's how it was. It was like that in the 80s. When I started it was like that in the 90s and it was like that into the 2000s. And some social media, I don't know, we became a bunch of narcissists. Now it's everybody looking to sconce at everybody like, he's, he's not that big or he's not that, he's not that, he's not, it's just so different. It was always so supportive. And you just, you like took me back with that statement to like 25 years ago, just like that. And it is. It's very, will it come back around? I don't know. You, Scott, you're more optimistic than me. You think that people will listen and they'll be like, oh, maybe we should, I think they're listening. They're going, these four old heads don't know what they're talking about. They need to get with the times. Like other talking about what happened back in the 90s. That's me. That's the pessimist in me. That's the cynic in me. Get off my lawn. Yeah. Did you have some, did you have some rapid fire questions lined up? I do. I have some wrap. I've started doing this with the people who come out and I don't like to give them the heads up because I want to ask you some questions. It's basically the first thing that comes off your head or he comes out on your brain, comes off the top of your head. Some of them are serious. Some of them are not so serious. If you want to pass on one or if you want to pass, that's fine. But sometimes I have questions that when you pass, they're even worse. So it's okay. I'll break in though with the easier ones. Okay. Money is no object. What vehicles in your driveway? A Ferrari. Nice. Anything specific? No. For our school, but just what's going on? I don't know if you know. I'm a very simple person. I'm not even much of a car guy. But since I was a kid, I said one day I would love to have a phone with a little power. Nice. I would love to have a Ferrari. So yeah. If that opportunity is short, same thing money is no object. Dream vacation. To travel the entire world and try food and all different cultures. All nice. Just not fish. I would love to travel the entire world because I love to eat and just try, that was always my thinking vacation. Just try food. Every place I go and I'm just about to travel the world. Nice. Best school lunch. The cafeteria pizza or the cafeteria in Lasagna. It was pizza. Orange and sweet. It was definitely pizza. The $6 slice is that they gave us. Difference between, and this is going to give away whether you have clients in the UK. Difference between Daphne and Daphne. I don't even know if either of those are fair enough. That's it. That's it. That's it. I wouldn't have picked it up without UK clients. I got UK clients. I don't. You know podcasts with UK guy every week. You never heard of it. You need to know. Daphne is skilled. Like you're very skilled with your movements. Daphne is your cellular foolish. You're Daphne. I've heard that one a lot. What's your carry gun? It's a Glock 40C. Good man. Good man. It's a 40C. It's not really a carry gun, but that's what I keep on. Wait. Is it a 23? Is it a 23? Is it a C? So it's compensated? It's a 40C. I know that. I don't know the exact cut and calories of it. But that doesn't have the whole, it has the holes in the top if it's a C. Oh yes. Yes. Yeah. I've got one of those two. Don't show it to Andrew. Don't show it. You'll get us demonetized for King's Real News. Let me work it down if we're going to. I could. I could. Will it take a soul? If you need it to will it take someone's soul? It's on her beat. And I heard you. Yeah. That was my first time. That's a question. How does teacher in high school? Mail or female? What? I don't remember your teacher. I don't know. I don't remember my high school teacher's names. I don't know. Andrew, do you remember your high school teacher's names? Not the name, but I remember what she looked like. She wasn't my teacher. She was a teacher in my class. She taught Spanish. I know, but we were teenagers. So even if they were like smoking out, they're had to be like, they're had to, well, they were like, there was at least one that you think like, okay. I remember the name, but I remember they're being one in high school. There you go. Everybody in the school love. Okay, next next question. Did you bang her? No. Okay, next question. If you did bang her, would you lie about it on a podcast? You lied. Have you been to Sturgis? I have no way, my daughter's a fighting guy. Mickey. Sorry, guys. So no, I have nothing to start this unfortunately. So I actually, when I was trying to come back in a bodybuilding, I stopped writing because I was afraid of getting hurt and putting them on the side line. Again, sure. Now that I'm down here in Florida, I still have my bike. I brought for Vegas. I go out of here. Hopefully, I could take a star just start a ship one day. Fair enough. What's your dream bike? What are you buying first? You have it? It's a two thousand sixteen street ball with the dynamo body on it. So I figured it was. Because the heads we did the cams on it, I still have a lot of people. I go to do one of bad news. You want this? No, I love my bike. Sixty and eight handlers on it. That's what I started with. I have a ton of memories on that bike. I got it. My mom died. I will drag that thing out as long as I possibly can. I don't want any other bike. Even if somebody said, I will buy you the bike, whatever bike you would want. I'm happy with my. You're not a geese or do I kind of guy? I don't think. All right, no, not get at least. Eventually, we'll get there eventually. One of two, you have to pick one. Who do you want to see make it? Melania Trump or Michelle Obama? That's obviously Trump. Yeah. Michelle Obama's pretty. She's pretty good looking too though. Come on now. Anyway, my cheek is still not. You still have to pick two. Diane Feinstein or Nancy Pelosi. I know it's a tough one. That's I'm ending it with that one because it's a hardest one, but you got to pick one. Oh, we'll get it from California. Yeah. Thankfully she's the old man. He's the oldest member of Congress right now. She's like 86 or 85. I guess I'll go with her because. Can you have it? You haven't seen her, but I got to tell you. It's a tough decision either way. I want to be in the scene, honestly. Yeah, it's going to be paying for it. I'm going to pass it that way. I don't want to. I don't have a follow up. I can move for it. All right, that's been our new experience. Get to be coming up with the rapid fire questions. That's all we've got time for. This has been a serious pleasure. It's been great to meet you. I really appreciate you taking all the time to come on. I do have one more question. You've got three dogs. What kind of dogs are they? Mickey and Mickey, I had in 2015. There were rescues. They came from South Texas. They're like a healer dog. Mixed the kind of look like many German shepherds in a way that 30 pounds each. My girlfriends do a climb. Now that me and her lived together, so that's what we're fighting was Mickey and Clyde because they're too males. They're kind of glad it's sometimes. He's a French. It's a weird mix. Yeah. That's all we got time for. If people did want to reach out to you, Dom for coaching, just to follow you with Instagram that we just were talking about. What's the best ways to reach out to you and work and they follow you? My Instagram is IFBB Dom Cardone. It's IFBB DOMCAR DONE or my website, go nutrition.com. Awesome. I'll make sure to have that down in the show notes and guys, if you want to reach out to skip, you can go to teamskip.com, hit up Andrew at bodybarry.com. You can reach out to me, McNally, diets at gmail.com. Thank you guys for hanging with us and watching this. Check out our great sponsors, trinutrition.com. Use our code, think, supplementsource.ca for our Canadians, strong sports nutrition for those of you in the UK. And thank you to everybody from Patreon. We'll be back with a bunch more stuff. And Dom, man, this has been an absolute pleasure. I'm really glad that we got a chance to finally do this. Yeah. Well, thank you guys very much to have me on. It was a great show in my case. And I'll be watching you guys for a while. And it was a great conversation to have. So thank you for having me on. Hell yeah. Guys, we will see you soon.

I had that exact NPC shirt. The black one was a clean gray logo. I didn't cut the neck out of it though. I still just got on with T-shirt. I didn't want to mess it up. That was like my dress. That was my that was a good t-shirt. Yeah, yeah. That's a good show. Yeah. We're here with jeans and going out. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. My good shirt. Hey everybody. Welcome to It's just bodybuilding reacts. Big Ron part low dusty hands shot. The producer Scott McNally. Remember I am mutant calm get your ice of surge get your all in. Everyone should get on the gear 20% off with dusty 20 or big Ron 20 like share subscribe comment and the bell. And we're off to the races. What have we got Scott? We have something. I don't think I've ever seen this before. But you've seen it. You just said it had been quite a while since you saw it. Yeah. Dorian Yates upper body 96 battle for the Olympian other MOC video. Okay. So here we are. He's training at Beves. He's training with Steve. So Steve still like pretty big here. He's like a big dude here. He's like 300 pounds. And Dorian's ready. Here's a game face. Hey, the game faces on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Beves was still a gold's gym back then. Remember before powerhouse he was a gold originally. And so this was the first battle for the Olympia video. Mrs. Mitsero's first year doing these. And I believe Dorian was the final segment because he's only four days out and they always tended to go in order like how he felt it. They got close to the show. Dorian is I believe the final guy before the end of the video. What do we got for sound here? Missed what I had to do. Oh, he's talking. So I'm definitely looking to be improved on last year. Hopefully the same condition. Probably three or four pounds heavier. Probably see more solid in all the right places which is going to make a big difference to the overall appearance. So I'm pretty happy the way things have gone this year. For me, the if anything, the drug testing as far as the diet is going is an advantage because the way a preferred for a contest is always being to be based on the ready for the contest from around two weeks out. I'll come to train usually. A bit of Francis's goals, Jim and New York. And everybody can tell you when I come into weeks before the Olympia. I'm based on the same shape around the same weight that I would be on the day of the contest. I never had to take any extreme measures to try and drop weights, drop water weight at the last minute. So if anything, the whole testing thing. This is the testing year. In my favor to my friends. I've got about that. Well my goal is not to put on a good idea. You know, 10 or 15 pounds of mass. I think that's not a realistic goal now. The days of doing that gone by. I'm just so especially natural. Small improvements. I think that can be natural. I love it improved. Oh, we're a little natural. Another area of better conditions. I think some stake at this point to try and put on 10 or 15 pounds. I think it's going to, if you try and put on 10 or 15 pounds, this stage is not going to be quality muscle and the face and everything. Whereas if two or three pounds of quality muscle in all the right places, how big was he here run compared to his normal self? Well he was competing in the 260s at this stage. So he'd be like 265 on stage this year. Okay. So the testing didn't change that. It was just ironic. Yeah. It was only dioratic. They had, you know, they were upset about almost death in 93. 92, I think. And they was not in his dioratic testing here and there. I love the fact that leading into a show, we all know that you're just getting blood in the muscle and whatnot. And he's still doing incline with 405 on the hammer strength or four plates. I always play. You know, you could see, I mean, even covered, you could see the striations and the traps from the front and the packs. And this arrow was not. I need to watch this whole video now, just because you brought this into play run. I've never seen it. Plus the diamond stud is like a good throwback. Yeah. He went to<|ru|> whoop after that. You know, like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, damn pirate all the time. I love the red straight pants. With the, I had that exact NPC shirt, the black one was the green gray logo. I didn't cut the neck out of it though. I still just got on with T shirt. I didn't mess it up. That was like my dress. That was my, that was big good t shirt. Yeah. Yeah. That's a good show. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Where it would jeans and go in out. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. My good shirt. I got a representative. Yeah, PC. You know, yeah, as a Canadian body builder that had no affiliation with the NPC whatsoever. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The cheesy music comes in over. Yeah. Oh, that's the old sidebacks. Pin loaded. I like that one. So he's doing like a push day. Yeah. It says upper body upper body. So I guess he's going to get some back in there too. You know, his face doesn't, I mean, great. He's really dieted down here, but I, I don't feel like this is that long ago. You know what I mean? Like, oh, yeah, like the way he looks. Yeah. Versus Steve, Steve looks, Steve looks like he's aged more since the grain of his face was pretty blowing up back then too. So that was good. Yeah. You always look younger when you're, when you're full of water, you know. I can probably should have I've aged more in that timeline than any of them. Everyone else. So it's, it is what it is. Yeah. I actually think it's like it's funny, but when we first started like, Steve is literally one of my favorite people in the industry just because I love his just straightforward way of being. So I'm like, so impressed at how massive he was. Because feeling like no kidding. They guys tall like massive back. Yeah. He was big dude. He's very imposing now. I could only imagine how imposing he would be if when he was completely jacked. You know, yeah. Well, the the energy is imposing now all by itself. And then you add a structure. Things get wild. I imagine what the energy was like back then with Dorian in the gym. Oh, I know. We're kind of used to pros now, right? And just you know, imagine Dorian would arrive at beds two weeks out and like the whole gym would be like Dorians here. Like it was like, oh, you know, it was a big deal. Yeah. I remember hearing stories about about that like, you know, everything changed like, you know, Steve's calendar was wiped clear for those two weeks. It was all about Dorian like, you know, just coming and going and doing cardio and all that stuff. Yeah. That's so. There's parts of like the the social media world that make everything so much better. But then there's parts about like that that aura that's the it was. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like like, like, do you match? I mean, I can imagine someone like texting me and being like, you said to Jim, if you leave now, you might be able to see him and I'd be like, yeah, go on in hammer. Yeah. You got four, five minutes of yeah. That's what I was saying. But we'll all go look at him from a distance because we respect him. Yeah. And then, you know, you you wrap up your workout and you just hover by the front desk for like an hour waiting for him to come with a Steve's office so he can maybe meet him and get a little like a little spin click camera photo. Yeah. Yeah. Quick and nod. Yeah. Yeah. I remember those days. Oh, man. Did he just he peeled down this at all or did you see he doesn't peel down. He did exactly what you'd expect from Dorian. Yeah. Opposing the only guy in the video that doesn't pose. Yeah. Of course. It's just an of course. It was just another thing that reinforced everything that was mystical about Dorian. It was like, oh, of course, he doesn't even strip down in the battle for the Olympic video. You see every guy. It's what four hours long or whatever. Right. Every guy of train, talk, eat pose. Train, talk, eat pose. You get to Dorian. You just trains. barely says a word. I think that that's what proves that it really is him though because, you know, if you think about this, this doesn't come out for months after the Olympia. So while you're watching this, you already know what he looked like. It's just that's not what he did, you know. And I think that's what I loved about him is is everything, everything, everything, it was nothing created this story and it just happened to end up on film and in life, you know. The track is a break in my brain. Yeah. Is he saying anything here? No, this is still just music. You're very good at these. I'm saying, yeah, it's very little talking. I'm trying not to judge the fact that the plates are backwards, but whatever. That's my story. I love this part. I love this. Let's see it some volume here. All right. We're done with you. The door was just shut in your face. That was it. That was it. That's just no post. Workout. Like, no. No, no, no, no. It's not pretty good. You know, I'm going to eat my tilapia now and none of that. He closed the door like scotted on our first episode back. Just turned off. That was it. Yeah. Yeah. No, I remember that clip. I remember how with that, it stood out. You know, you watch about a field of being, they go through all the guys and then you get the door and it's clipping. You're like, oh, okay. Yeah. Yep. That's what we get. You realize this is part of the reason you don't have any pictures around. You're like, I don't have, I don't know why I don't have a lot of pictures from back in the day because you know what I mean? It was the mindset effect then. Yeah. Stripping down and taking pictures every workout. We're just getting trained and then you do your thing. You mean think of inviting Mits into the office? No. No. Yeah. You're treated to he was there in the first place. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So, imagine Steve shut his two weeks down. That would be, yeah. I'm just, I'm just taking it all in now. You're like, you guys were talking off the energy at the gym at that time. That would be, like, you know, that's all ready, bad Francis goals at the time. So, like, there's already a bunch of champions there and like, and like the profile bump guys, like they're all over the walls, like they come in and train and like that gyms always just popping off. Yeah. And so there's already an energy, you know, and then, you know, Dorian shows up. And it's a different kind of energy, right? It's like, like, you know what I mean? It's just different. I don't know. That's how things were back then. You know? And so they were just testing. I was in the game at that point because I was like still the kid occasionally seeing magazines and buying them. And I knew all the players, but I didn't know anything. I didn't know what I was looking at. You know what I mean? It was just cool to see. I wish I would have been in that era to experience that side more because it is wild to think of like, I would have driven states to see him do a seminar. Once I was of age and was in the body, like I can't imagine. Whereas when it, by the time it started happening for me, it was a little more normal. Like, pros were around, you know, it wasn't yes, crazy to see. And Jay was the closest thing to to that era. I think when he got big, like, you had to go CJ. Yeah. Yeah. But he traveled so much that he was making so much money being Jay that it wasn't that hard to do. No, no. Yeah. It's easy. It's easy to do the work Jay did when he was Bank of what he banked a little bit sweeter. Absolutely. Okay, guys. That was fun. Remember, like share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. And I am mutant.com, 20% off dusty 20 or bigron 20 get your all and get your gear. Get your all and get your all and get your ice with surgery. Everyone should get on the gear. Screwed that one up. What's going on Scott? I was looking to see what year the Olympia was drug tested. Like everything. Oh, that was 90. I think it was 90. That's why it was thinking. Yeah. Okay. I was thinking because I was like 96 that seemed later. I didn't realize they did a dioratic testing in 90. Yeah. And I thought they did it more than one year. And they do it a couple of years. Did you find anything? I know they, they, they, they, think it was 95 Olympia 2 and Dorian was like dry as hell for that one too. Yeah. So it was, and then I remember, remember, they tested for dioratics again in 2001. And they said Jay failed the dioratic test and then he like was going to, going to take them to blow it up. I guess he didn't. Yeah. I got admit that was a, that was a great factor in that time because I, I felt like you realized he'll Jay was because a lot of people would have just kept them out. I did just got put on the map. And yeah, maybe he says they failed. They would just be like, okay, sorry. Jay was on a while they were sitting in the court and they were like, oh, shit. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You don't get pushed around. Got it. And they lost immediately. Like then they just backed down and immediately because they had no chain of custody of the Sam. Yeah. They just immediately said that that they didn't follow up with like the procedural correct. So yeah. It wasn't accurate. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not seeing 2000 or I'm not seeing 19. 95, but I am seeing not saying it's not there, but I am right. Or 96 is 96 is dioratics. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Crazy time. You know, everyone's still like the same. They put screwed up less without dioratics. So yeah. Right. Super full. Yeah. It was a pretty full. You know. Yeah. Okay, guys. Thanks. Remember it's just body building. reacts. I love that. It's like a pause. It's good.

And he was the inspiration for the wall. The inspiration for the wall's got comes from this guy's Instagram. He's got like all his co-bane guitars. He's got a cosnervana collection all hanging up right. And they're all like perfect to speck because he knows what he's doing. So now he's like sponsored by a wall hanger as Instagram people get. It's a free wall hanger from that company. Thank you. You know what I mean? Yeah. So this guy, so here's, I don't know how much money he's making. I'm sure he's making some. But it's inspiring to me and I think it's awesome. So it's Nirvana guitars. That's his Instagram handle. You know what I mean? Not that anyone needs to care about the one I'm just making an example. Yeah. So this guy is just such a fan of Nirvana that he's got all the guitars perfectly. Spect, perfectly built exactly to Kurt's thing. He knows a history of every single thing that he ever did to his guitars. Yeah. He's got all his guitars. He's got all the right pedals. He's, he's, you know, mastered the proper tones for every album. He's just like deep dive master fan, right? And he's got a fucking Amazon store that sells all the parts you need. The stickers you need, the fucking pickups you need. Nice. Now he's making a living off something he loves. He's got a lot of something he loves. He's got like, you know, a couple hundred thousand YouTube, like, you know, it's getting, it's getting good for him. And I just like, it goes back to like what Gary V says about fucking just what do you love to do? Yeah. Like you now have this in your hand. You can communicate with the whole planet now. So there might only be 10 people in your area that care about your thing. And yeah, you can't make a living off 10 people. But there's a million people worldwide that care about your thing. And maybe you can make a dollar from every one of them. Yeah. There you go. You know, and it just the power of the phone and the power of YouTube and the power of just loving something and putting it out there into the world. You know, I just think it's really cool. So this guy has turned his Nirvana obsession into like a really cool Instagram page, a great YouTube channel and money flowing in. So it's just, you know, reminder to everybody if you're thinking of doing something man, just fucking get doing to start chip in a way, you know, they'll find you. So like Dusty and it's cigars, you know? True. It's awesome. So episode number and we don't do numbers anymore. So I could doesn't matter. We stopped doing numbers. I'm okay with that. Of course, Bigger on part load Dusty hands, Shaw, scummy, now you're a producer. I got a bunch of Instagram questions for us. Like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Ring it. And comment with questions for the next show. Yeah, and comment on YouTube with questions for the next show. We'll get a lot of really good news. Thank you. Remember mutant, you got mutant supports a show. So remember to go on IM mutant.com with our discount codes, Bigger on 20 or you can use Dusty 20. Exactly. You know what to see? I tried to drop the enthusiasm a little bit just to see if you'd notice. I thought if it's some people speaking that tone, they feel better. It's like if I yell at you, you don't really listen. But if I whisper, I'll listen. We can do the whole show like that. Bigger on 20. We're gonna hear that in their sleep now. They're just gonna start ordering middle of the night. Bigger on 20. I hope so. Sleep ordering is where I make my box. I love you, sure. I'd hit that. Yeah, so it's a six or three thing. Yeah, it's just a card because obviously, you know, what they made. Yes. Yeah, yeah. I have a collection of shirts that I like to wear around and then inappropriate times. This was just one of those muffins. Perfect. I have a bunch of people I want to hear you enjoy them. I just bought a shirt that I'm really proud of. But I always feel like I got a brand. I got to either be West Coastier, mutiny on the show. You know what I mean? Occasionally I've worn like another gym shirt. But most of the time I just try to like brand. But maybe I'll move to like you guys got like your fun shirts on today, you know? Maybe you could. You should, I mean, don't do like a crew Jones, Rad Racing shirt. Actually, I have a rad t-shirt, yes, I do. Do you really mean it's amazing? That's amazing. That's amazing. My buddy. That's changing for sure. Okay. How about I wear the rad shirt next time? Good. For sure. I'd have a so number who fucking cares. Um, yeah. Okay. What's new with you guys? Any stories we missed since last episode? Anything important? I feel like nothing really happens in my life. You know what I mean? That's what I was going to the gym. And I got a you flew to Vegas. You think it's a fluida. Yeah, but that's not been taught. I've been taught already. I'm a last show. We're going to England. We got to go to a freaking Dubai. Wow. A lot of stuff going on. You guys are going to Dubai? Yes. Yeah, we're going to Dubai and the October for the muscle show. What's you guys had more to do, Ron? I wish you didn't have such a poor life. You know? It was a weird thing. That's amazing. Have you guys been to Dubai before? Ron has, right? I was in Dubai. So the good thing about this trip to Dubai is that I get a redo of my last trip to Dubai, which did not turn out well. So that's a good chance to have a lot more fun this time. My last trip to Dubai, I think I mentioned it. I got sick on the way over there on the plane. On the plane, I was like, I'm getting sick. You know, and by the time I got to London and I was like, wait for my flight to Dubai, I was like full on, like looking for nasal spray and cold meds. And I got on the plane. I was like, I couldn't breathe through my nose. And my eyes were both running, like watering and running. And I was like, getting hit with the brutal head cold. And I started to get like the, where you can't make a fist, you know? And by the time I got off the plane and Dubai, I was just full blow and like cold slash fluy mass, I looked like a mass. So if you know if you take enough pseudo a fed during your eyes, I'll stop running. And you can actually like look like you're okay. You know, you can like bluff that you're not completely brutally sick and contagious. And then you can go to the expo and shake hands with everybody. So of course, that's what I've done. This is pre-COVID. You just drug up. No one cares about your germs. They just care about how you look. Right. Yeah. We just need you. We just need you here. Make yourself presentable. Wash your hands. Don't care. Like pre-COVID, no fucks given. Show up at the expo. Yeah. So I just like sucked it up. I didn't even train. I was there. It was a Dubai for five days. Didn't leave the hotel to do anything except go to the expo. And then the very last day we were there, I started to feel a little better. Like I was like, oh fuck, just in time to go home, you know? Yeah. And I had a client there. This awesome client I had there that I helped out. She took me out to a restaurant out of mall for a meal. We had a good time. And that mall had like the biggest, in biggest fucking shark tank of every scene in my fucking life inside it. Like this giant aquarium that was like a million gallons. It was like a city block aquarium. Like it was fucking massive. And I remember just thinking like, oh, the whole city's like this and I didn't really get to see much damn. You know what I mean? Yeah. So, and now I did see the birds. I stood at the bottom of the bird. I looked out that was kind of close to our hotel. So it was no big deal. But it was incredible to stand below it and look up at it. It's like unbelievably tall. Like you just, you can't wrap your brain around it. And they got this. I was eating at like a cafe outside the bird. Like looking up, you know? And they do this thing when that gets night time. The whole bird's like does this light show? Like the whole building is lit up. Just does this like light dance? I'm sure you've seen videos of it. It was pretty crazy. But yeah, that's I didn't see much of the city at all. And I was super sick the whole time. So I'm looking for a redo. That's cool. So that was really travels without me. It just goes sideways. So here I am, just save the day. You know, and when do you guys do that? No. And the October and October. And what's that for? Muscle show. Biggest food there. Nice. Yeah, they do buy a muscle show. Suppose being a good expo, you know, I mean it was a good one. We went and I tied the brand. The booth was so busy. It was me and Johnny Jackson. And I remember we were just like slammed, signing all day, all day, all day pictures, pictures, pictures, pictures, pictures. Yeah, it was crazy. I heard the fans over there are real avid fan, like there's a lot of people that really like body building. Like a lot of people who enjoy going to the shows, a lot of people who are passionate about watching the sport. Yeah, didn't you find that those stuff when you were when you were in England too, though, like how many people knew you? And like, because I feel like when I, the first time went to England, I was stunned because I was not just an amateur, but a very beginning in the sport, like as far as on the public side. Yeah. And so I kind of miss you. Like when I did the Arnold the first year, like I just, I like worked the booth, like anybody else, you know? No one gave a fucker, a new who I was. And then maybe, you know, I don't even think I had, I don't think I had done like the USA's yet. And I went to England and people knew me. And I was like, why? Who'd that? I felt like in England, the difference I felt was that people were a lot more laid back and real. Versus when I think of the Arnold, I think of like, there's still kind of like a wall between the people on the other side of the booth and the audience or that, you know, the fans versus I felt like everybody was like a lot more like interacting. It was just more, more cool, more low key. And yeah, it was cool to meet a bunch of people. It's weird to go across the world and meet people that I actually know who you are. Like it's a trip. Especially for me. I wasn't a pro. Like you guys, you know? Yeah, it's interesting. You think about like, you know, like back and say the 90s. If, if, if you, how do I put this? No one recognized you for anything. Unless you were pretty famous. Like magazines. Yeah. Yeah. Because you had to be in magazines or the news. Yeah. Like, so like the only people that got recognized were like millions of people knew who they were. That's what it took. Like you could be, you could be in a band that sold 100,000 records. And you wouldn't get recognized anywhere at all, except in your hometown. Yeah. But now you could be a bodybuilder with a YouTube channel and people recognize you in airports all over the world. Yeah. Smoke shots. We still smoke shots. And we still have a vision. You know what I mean? It's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's crazy how, how much, how much easier it is to be like, like an Fless celebrity. I'm gonna say, yeah, I'll be there. Just like, and you know, like obviously celebrities is a spectrum. But like just to experience any kind of celebrity, you know, there's a lot more common now than it used to be because it used to be, you had to be like, you had to break that glass ceiling of like, really being, getting exposure from, you know, channels and news and all that. Yeah. And so, you know, we have so much more power ourselves to promote ourselves now. It's, it's a, it's a crazy shift. And it's only happened in the last really 10 years, 15 years. Has been this massive shift where we can create our own sort of, you know, present ourselves to the world without anyone else doing it for us. It's crazy. There was a very popular, uh, women's, uh, physique competitor who had retired. And I found out she received, and she had a lot of followers. She started in only fans. And from what I'm understand, she's making like, she just decided to do this. She's making like a ton of money. And imagine like if you just start that up and let's say you're pulling in like 25,000 a month. Like you could do that for a couple years. And that's like your entire life's worth of money. That's all you need. You retire two years. You know, it's crazy to think. And yeah, that, that you couldn't have done that, you know, a decade ago. Good for her. It's like, well, shit. What you got to do? I never not got one's hustle. That's one thing. Like, especially when it comes to like, you know, whatever it is, whether it be only fans or, or you got a goofy YouTube channel about fucking, you know, my little pony or whatever the fuck you're into. Like, you know, we used to make fun of nerds. Remember, you know, like nerds. But I was love, I was I was love nerds because I thought fuck, that's going to pay off of that guy. Yeah. Like, someday someone's going to want to interview an expert. And that guy's the fucking expert, you know what I mean? And I was kind of a marker that. Right. And I guess I also felt like I was a bit of a nerd with so many of the things I liked that would always get so much deeper into them than most of the other people. Yeah. You know, like say, oh, you're a fan of that too. Oh, blah, blah, blah, blah. And they look at me and go, I don't know what you're talking about. And so I sort of admire that level of, you know, nerd dumb and going down, you know, chasing your thing. I talked about it beginning as show. And so I never knocked the hustle, like, sometimes man, the best move is to cash out, like, you know, that's for sure. Make your fucking money. There's no other money coming from this. Yeah. You know? So I think you got a factor in two. I mean, it's something wrong. I had to work through two is as your career changes like that individual. You've said she used to compete. Well, she doesn't anymore. Yeah. Well, now what? Like, if she doesn't change and redirect her focus into somewhere where her current following might go with her, right? Eventually you lose it. You know, so it's the same. Like, if, you know, if you're, if you're a, if you're a great pro, well, then you got to become an ambassador of some sort or what you did back in the day. It doesn't matter. Yeah. You know, because it's not the same. I mean, I think about that. I've had conversation with kids now about bodybuilding and they truly don't know how dominant Ronnie was other than what they're told. And I'm like, it's different. You know, but you got to kind of factor through because some of them, you know, same thing like me talk about like, like, liberating, you know, like, oh, you could meet him. They're like, why? Hmm. Because he's just a supplement owner. Now, you know, I mean to them. So I think it's great. You definitely have to, it was something I looked at as, as I realized I was done. I'm like, well, now what? Like, how do you keep presenting yourself in a way that someone cares and thank God Ron and I had to be into a podcast and here we go. Um. I was desperately trying to think of something, you know. I thank God. He came through. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So you got some, you did a question box. You did good once. I did a question box. So, first question, actually this one's finally, I, I won't say who asked it, but it's someone in the know. How are the three of you spending your mutant podcast sponsor riches? Wow. All of them. I think I spend it on monsters. It covers your monster. Your monster have it for months. Is that what it covers? Well, there's four of us drinking them in this house. So that adds up monsters. That adds up. It absolutely does. That's funny. I still need to buy a better webcam with mine. I got out. Are you in only France? Yeah. It's really good. It pops. What do you mean? Here pays really good. Drop it here. We'll do a link. That's funny. Yeah. Yeah. I think I do need a new webcam. If anyone out there, well, I'm sure Scott has the recommendations, but maybe it's just a fun to ask that audience. Yeah. Anyone have a webcam that you suggest that's really going to help this situation without breaking the mutant sponsorship bank. Because I'm not going into my own fucking pocket for a webcam. It's going to come out of this money for sure. So it's got to be, you know, recently priced considering it can only make me look so good. And, you know, mainly I'm concerned about whether my guitars look hot. If there's a webcam that'll make them look pretty sharp, that would be cool. Also, I should add why we're asking the audience stuff. Would they prefer that we did a wide screen versus the little slivers that we currently have, the split screen like this? Because we could do a screen look like we could do wide screen. I don't know if I can at the moment. Let me see here. Do you mean we're at like the camera keeps switching depending on who's talking? No, no, no. Where we would all be wide screen. I could try to say, I can't do it at the moment. I have to say it's a little bit of a stack. We would be stacked on top of each other. It would look, hold on a second. Let me see if I can do it. Like the Ron sandwich. Let me see. You're the bread. Oh, whoa. Yeah. Totally. Well, it would take me a minute to set up. Yeah. But there would only be three squares for... Can we just put mutants in the fourth square? We could. We could. Normally, I don't want to do that. I don't want to do that. I have one, two, and then third in the middle. Like down, you know what I'm saying? And we could have a muting thing for sure in the background of it. It would, it would, it could work. But that would be an option if we wanted to do that. Just throwing it up. Okay. We're wrong. We'll say it's people fake. Yeah. People. Okay. We'll live stream to the Ron's only fan. Let me do in paper. We'll be on my bike. I can't circle for an hour. Make it. Learn a new trick. I'm trying. Yeah. I keep a last bit all the time. Are you going to learn a new trick? Keep posting the same 10 tricks. I'm like, I got like, like, like, do you realize how hard these tricks are? They take thousands and thousands of attempts to learn. And I got like, yeah, more than breaking. They're, they're going to come soon. You see a flood of new clips as soon as I can just, just over this hump. So where does hump do you have any that you get? And then you don't get them for like a hundred tries. No, you so far really start to get them once you get them. Yeah. Once you get them, that's, that's, yeah. Well, once you get them, you're like, okay, that tricks on the ropes now. So you got to go back up the next day and you got to pull it twice. And then you got to go up the next day and pull it, pull it twice again to make sure you're nervous systems like cemented. And now you're like, now you're like, I have that trick. And you, you make sure you get it every session at least once. You know what I mean? And get it. Yeah, that's how it works. Usually I guess when you go to the ladder when you get those guys, combos are a different thing. Like if you're doing a new trick by itself and you're learning like a single trick, I guess that's a different thing. But combos like if you're trying to do like three tricks in a row, I'll link that you might get and then you don't get it again for like weeks. Like fuck just to get to like the fourth trick in the combo is like hard. You know what I mean? But it's, it's, it's really fun to watch really good riders work on something. I'd go with my buddies the other day. And my, my buddy was like working on a new combo. And he like fucking built it like in the course of an hour. He like built it like and got all the way to like the fourth move in the combo. And he must only done like maybe 30, 40 attempts at that combo. And but he's he's been riding for 30 years. So he can like do that. He can learn something in a day, you know? Yeah. So I'm going to do this. I really think this is possible. And you'll like figure it out in a day. And he's like, kid got it. Now I got to pull it every day. I ride for like a while and it'll come. You know what I mean? So yeah, it's, it's, it's interesting. It's, it's a different thing. It's fun. You know what I'm working on? Compatitions. Got it. No, I am. How's it working competition? Like is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, I know this right? Like a run where you do like a certain amount of time to do tricks or what it's. Yeah. Yeah. To keep it real simple, most riders, the good riders I'm talking about. They consider themselves either contest riders or video riders. Those are kind of the two main guys. Some guys aren't as interested in competing. They used to do that. They rode back in the 90s. They said, now they do video edits. So they work on extremely hard shit. And they just try to get it on video once. Okay. Right. And you'll see them pull, but that doesn't mean they haven't wired. They might, they might be pulling it one out of 100 times. But they get it on video. And then the first one to get that combo and they put it up and they're like, there, I got that. I'm the first guy to do that. And that's like all the satisfaction in the world. Contest riders are different because you can't touch the ground. Every time you touch the ground, you'll lose points. Right. So they hold like the big thing is to pull a perfect run. Where you know, flawless run where you don't touch the ground. Right. So typically, contest riders don't tend to do their hardest shit in the run because it's too much of a risk. So they'll weigh like, what do I have to do to beat these other guys? And if they can phone it in and do an 80% run because they're good that they're 80% is going to win. And then they won't touch the ground. That happens. So sometimes you'll get a winner of a contest and the other guys are like, you know, they don't do as hard as tricks. It's like, yeah, me, didn't have to. The whole point was to be flawless. Also, contest riders, they're like, they have to, those guys have to ride like 68 hours a day because those combos are pulling or so fucking ridiculous and to have them wired enough to pull them in a run is just bizarre. Like, like, contest riding to me is just so mind boggling difficult to actually be able to pull stuff under pressure in the moment. Like, it's just, I, I, it's have so much respect for those guys. You know, you see those ex-game skaters and stuff. It's one thing for them to pull that stuff on their own time. But for them to go out in the gold medal run and pull it all and not pull off and just everything go perfectly. And then they nail the 900 at the end and the double fucking flare and they fucking landed all like that's just, people don't get how hard that is. And they're even, when they do it, they're not like, oh yeah, there's my run. They're like, I can't fucking believe I pulled that run. Like, because they're pushing it, you know, they go home thinking, I can't believe I didn't fucking touch. How? So it's like, they're asking all kind of the other. I found a YouTube page the other day. It's actually a few weeks ago. Guy who rides BMX bikes. Now he's not doing flat land tricks like you do run. But he is doing tricks and he just has these GoPro set up on his bike and he'll be like, the video will be called like, Compton. And then he just goes to Compton and he just like thrashing. He's going through alleys, it's up front walls. You know, and then he might like stop and talk to somebody for a minute and, you know, there's a car accident. And he sees that going on. It's just like a half hour video of him like jumping off shit. It's cool, man. It's cool. Yeah. Yeah. Those street guys that like ride brakeless through busy cities. Oh, yeah. Some of that was nuts. Hold on to buses. It breaks on their bike. Yeah. Just fucking. There's also some crazy phrases guys like. Well, street riders are so abusive on their bikes. The rims are all bent up. So if they have brakes on their bikes, the brake pads will rub on the rims. That's one reason. Secondly, as brakes are uncool. Some of the guys think brakes aren't cool, right? They like just want minimal bikes. They want their bike to be really light. So these take all the brakes off of it. You know, a lot of guys ride brakeless. It's, you know. And then the flat landers, a lot of flat landers ride brakeless now because they're trying to like, I guess prove a point like I'm such a master of my bike. It's all about balance. I'm never going to need a brake. You know what I mean? So, but there's tricks I like that require a brake. And I like the old school stuff. So that's why I brakes. Plus the brakes has saved my face a lot. Because when the front wheels are going to wash out from underneath you, and you tap your brake and it stands you back up. That's like. Okay. I got a question box here. If I can fucking find it. Okay. I got to watch the Jamie the giant was on Flex Lewis's pop. Okay, I'm going to check that out. Remember when Jamie said he came back from Flex's, Flex made him cry? Yeah. No, if you want to see Jamie, giant cry. So Flex's a bully. That you heard it first. You heard it first. I just run with it. So Jamie told me that him and Flex started the podcast and they went for like 40 minutes. And then apparently Flex stopped the podcast. And he's like, no. So he's going to do. We got to restart. Jamie's like, what? He's like, yeah, we got to restart. You're just getting relaxed now. We got to restart. I'm going to ask you that question about your family again. We're going to start from the beginning. Now that you're relaxed and I'm relaxed, it's going to be better. Nice. And they restarted the podcast. And within like an hour, Jamie said he was crying and Flex is like, I fucking got you. People really liked him on our show. They said speaking to like being relaxed. So like you guys just all jelled really well together. And I saw that too. After doing so many interviews with these podcasts, he was one of those guys that like he just jumped on. And he was just like, he was right there with us. One of us, you could tell like he was totally like ready to just do whatever. He's good on podcasts. He's a good speaker too. Yeah. And he has he speaks like, you know, proper British, you know. True. I wonder if there's one before you know these high. Anyways. Yeah. Transforms everything. What what TV shows. Do you wish weren't canceled? When they were canceled. And you wanted more. And they ended. Can you think of any? Do you remember? Do you remember that they canceled family guy at one point? Oh yeah. Remember that early on too. Wasn't it early on? Think it was season two didn't they? And I think it was the 2002. Yeah. Family family guy was canceled after three seasons do the low rating. But then the fans got so upset and there were so many people saying, like, we want the show back and then they brought it back. Yeah. That was doing some Google work over here because I have to see a couple shows if they got canceled or not. So continue speaking. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was funny. You know what show was brilliant or they canceled it? I'm going to say this is my answer. This is my answer. So arrested development is one of my favorite comedies of all time. It's brilliant. The writing is just unbelievably good. The script is the script is so layered. Like there will be two characters talking. And there'll be a third character in the background that will like. Moon or say one word. And it's like half volume. But that's the joke. Okay. Yeah. And really the people smart enough. You have to be smart enough and into the show enough to like be paying attention to those background things for it to all come together. And it's what makes it so fucking awesome. But what happened was early on in the third season, they all found out they were getting canceled. So they just went ham with the script and they just fucked with the show and they just went. And the third season's really really hilarious. No kidding. But it gets really weird. The third season's really weird because they know they're getting canceled. And they're going to go and it a little. Yeah. So they didn't go with fuck in the show ended. Like 10 years later, Netflix did a fourth season. And the fourth season was was interesting. But it wasn't the same because they go whole decade gone by and like they weren't in the groove. You know, I mean, they try to write another season. I don't know where. And so it was really a weird season. It was really weird. But it was still enjoyable. But I wish they wouldn't have canceled it in season three. I wish they would have let it go like four or five good seasons. And then end it right. You know, but that's show to me is that's one of the funny issues of all time. And anyone who out there who loves Ozark and likes Jason Bateman and likes horrible bosses. And likes all that stuff that Jason Bateman's done. A rest of development is his. That's his like tour to force comedy show. Like he is he is the like the you know that character that's smarter than everyone. And he just can't believe the world he lives in. That's Jason Bateman just endlessly frustrated with his whole family. They're just clueless rich spoiled brass. And he's like the one member of the family that's like he's fucking. Right. It's a great show. I couldn't. So the one I thought might have been canceled wasn't so they're moving it. I got into high town, which was frustrating the beginning, but I actually loved it. And it's two seasons down. They are having a third season. They just moved it to stars. But I will say and this is. Peaky blinders didn't have to end. I was thinking. Okay. It's done. How many seasons? So that was it. That was it was it. I don't even know six maybe. But it's it's done. And it didn't like it wasn't even in no year long. I am I much preferred just like athletes. I rather you retire before the game retires you. But now one definitely left me wanting more. But they did a good job of ending it because I feel like some shows, for example, like Game of Thrones. They didn't know how to end it. So they fucking ruined when they ended it. Which by the way, I just started watching the new. The prequel. Game of Thrones last night. Right. Right. So good. I watched the first episode not the second. But that's going to be phenomenal. But you know, because there are other shows where you're like, okay, see what happened. They had to make it come to an end. So they just like slammed it to a screeching. Dexter that just ended. I was like, is it? Yeah. It came back to do that. Like the season was great. But then went. You know what I mean? And that shows over as well. I was really thrown off again. That's one of those ones where they ended the series. I brought it back. How many years later? I felt like they hit the ground running immediately with the show. They could have kept going. And then ended the show. Yeah. I was like, yeah. I'm just warmed up again. Nicky had never even seen the original ones. Oh, wow. I said, you'll be fine. Just jump in. And it took like two episodes for her to be like, oh, yeah. I'm fucking in. The sense of place that they created with that little town in the middle of nowhere. Oh, yeah. You know, like that sense of the feeling you got. Like, I could have lived in that little town for several seasons. You know, they could have, they could have brought out of there. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Those are mine. But I'm very grateful to find out on my little Google trip that my high town's Not over. Thank you. Oh. Okay. I thought you'd sort of like, and I'm, oh, go ahead. I thought of you guys. We watched a movie the other night. We don't watch a lot of movies. We watched the, we watched that Nick Cage movie a few days ago. It was like a new movie about that. Unbearable weight of amazing talent or something like that where he plays himself. And that was good. That was good. But then the night before last, we watched a movie a documentary called Running With The Devil. And it was a story about John McAfee, the guy who created the anti-virus. And his dude is fucking nuts. And he is accused of murdering his neighbor in Belize. And then he goes on the run. And he takes a crew, a camera crew with him from vice, who's like on the run with him. And then it was never, it was never released. Vice-canceled the video. So this whole thing kind of, like, it's, it's, it's, it's basically his life from that point. And then it picks up at other parts and he goes on the run a few times. And this is because one of the, the most smartest people in the world. Like he worked for NASA is, is like a programmer. He developed like, like the best anti-virus. He said that he had information on the cartel and on all the government agencies. Like that he could get into all their computers. And so that they were after him. But he may have just been crazy in on drugs. And there's guns. This is crazy. Everything, a man, there's guns, there's dogs, there's sex. It's amazing. It's, it's crazy. And he was a brilliant brilliant guy, but a really weird dude. So I, I think you guys, I think Ron, you might enjoy that one. That was weird. It's called running with the devil. Do you catch what just happened there? He said he's a brilliant brilliant guy, but a little weird. Ron, you might identify him. You might identify him. You might, you might, you might identify with him. My, but your brother. Oh, anyways. I, I also was recommended to watch the girlfriend that did. The girlfriend that didn't exist. Documentary on Netflix now. It's about that Notre Dame football player that got catfished. Oh, I didn't see that. Yeah, yeah, did see that. Anyways, I don't know the full story. I didn't really pay attention. I just know that he was like humiliated. Yeah. Was any like humiliated? Like real bad, because everyone's making fun of him. And, and I don't know the full story. I remember how it ended, but the documentary's supposed to be crazy. So I'll check it out. Okay. Was another question, me, I'm rather question. Here's a bodybuilding one. Or do you explain? Yeah. Boring. What do you cares? Can you explain what happened to you? What did I do? What did I do? What did I do? What did I do? What did I do? What did I do? What did I do? What did I do? What did I do? What did I do? What did I do? What did I do? How do you know how much to push? So I want to start with this one, Dusty. I think it's a great question, honestly. And for me, difficult to answer, I'm not a huge believer in this magic window like everyone else is. I think that your, you know, yes, you're hypersensitive to a lot of things. But I think we kind of lied to ourselves because you're so depleted. I think we've all done this. I definitely have where you're pushing food down and you're just get bigger and better and better and better and you're like, holy shit, it's never going to end and then you wake up one day and you're fucking fat. Yeah, like the next day. It's just gone. It all ended. I'm like, what the fuck happened last night. I didn't even have any pizza. But I really do think. The reason that I came up with this theory on myself was because I did have a prep one year where I was fucking mangled after the show. I did a couple shows. So actually like immediately went off, like not just off my shit, like I didn't train took two or three weeks off. Then when I came back, I kind of eased back in. My body was still hurt. And it was probably about six weeks right after the show in 2010 that I was barely training, you know. And then I went back into off season onto our military rooms, test, did normal. Without question, the greatest jump in my entire career was between 2010 and 2011. Even though I had a better placing in 2010, I was bonkers as far as how much size I put on and none of that happened after the show. So I don't really buy into it too much. So what do you got? Well, I think the post show rebound is largely illusionary. And it don't get me wrong. You're adding lean tissue, like on a dexus scan, your lean tissue is going up, right? Because cellular volume is like max out. But some of that supercompensation. And it's like an abnormal amount of fullness that you're actually not going to sustain. And eventually some of it's going to like come back out sort of in decrease. It also depends on how shredded did you get. Is there room to push the rebound? You know what I mean? How many calories were you eating at the end of your diet? Because the lower your calories at the end of your diet, the more noticeable you're the more like, you know, sudden, like if you go to like high calories, you know, you can put on a lot more fat, that sort of thing. You know, guys it have those good metabolism. They can go into a rebound and bump their calories up a lot. And they stay lean. Like, you know what I mean? I'll see that. And we've seen people that just get super fat after the show. And they're usually the ones who had like really sludgy metabolism going into the show, you know what I mean? They were like forcing it, forcing it, forcing it. And then post-show they just get real fat and watery. So it's, like I like you said, dusty. I think the magic is way overrated. But you still should strategically take advantage of the time to the best of what you need. So you needed to rest. I've been there before. I've done shows and then not trained for like 10 days. And then like come back into the jam like okay. That's good. You know what I mean? And then I've done shows where the Monday after the show I was back on 300 tests. And I'm doing a eat perfect and one sheet meal a day and try to put on 30 good pounds by the end of the month, you know? So it depends on how burned out are you, how much food we're eating going in. There's a lot of factors. So this is like the longest non-answer I think we can give. But we did so good not answering. We did so good not answering. It just depends. I think you should get off all your drugs except for your test. And you should just, you know, as you should enjoy your food. Like I think the mental break is so important. People don't. I know some bodybuilders that after the show they're right back on prep mode, prep brain, you know, going to get maximum advantage every single thing's perfect. And it's like that's good. It's good to have the intent. But I still think you should like give your brains some space and you know, fucking have an ice cream cone. It's just like, you know, you know what I mean? So don't be extreme either way. How's that? That's perfect. I like that. Okay. Does it matter if you drink your coffee first thing in the morning and then start your water after? I know they say this to hydrates you. But God, I just want my coffee. I love this question. I feel in this soul. Right. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. I mean, my, my thought is simple. You wake up dehydrated. So yeah, you are dehydrated. I don't think that having a couple of copper, two cups of coffee before you ever water is the end of the world. I wouldn't now go start your day. You know, like have your cup of coffee, then drink your water. That's, I just, that goes back to the overthinking. I don't think they're overthinking. I think it's, they're hearing other people that are. Like what could possibly be the huge difference? You're asking, that question is being asked or explained to somebody as if caffeine is 50 milligrams of dioxide. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's fine. So I get up in the morning and I take my dioxide first thing in the morning. Yeah. Yeah. That's a very good point. That's a very good point. So this is a good. So if you train after meal one, maybe there's more of an urgency to like pound a leader with some salt in it first thing. Yep. Like let's say you're training at 7 a.m. and you get up at 5. Maybe you want to get a leader of like with some salt pound a leader. Get it through you. Then have your coffee with your breakfast and that's sort of thing. I mean, that's possible that there's an argument that that would be a better way to do it. But yeah, I think this kind of overthinking is like I take in a leader of water and my coffee with my breakfast. Yeah. There. And I don't, and I don't eat all before training or I'm double fisting, right? Yeah. So I just wake up and I do the, yeah. So I do the gear with water, which is meeting this EA. I do scoop two scoops of that in a leader and just slam it right away. And then you know take the dogs out, do their thing and then have my coffee. But that's just because I am very mindful of fact that in an hour and a half I'm underweight. And one thing I think is understated is how strong you are hydrated and how weak you are dehydrated. Absolutely not not just injury, but just weak. I mean, it's a minimum to me to have a leader with that because that's the sodium. That's the amino is all the above. But I mean, it's not rare for me to get the gym an hour and a half after waking up and have two leaders done. Like the more the better to me. So if you're ever wondering if that might be a chink in your armor, it is. If you ever think am I not drinking enough, you're not for sure. Right. You know, I used to argue that every Thursday you're dehydrated. I want everyone who hasn't already done this, put some salt in your pre workout and your intro workout. Yeah. Like put like several grinds at crunch crunch crunch crunch, but that in your pre and then crunch crunch crunch crunch in your intro workout. And just pay attention to your pumps and everything I get. I still I look back on like the entire decade of the 90s and don't get me wrong. I had plenty of sodium in my diet because we were putting lots of stuff on our food. But I just think like fuck, I was just drinking just straight water. It's all I drank. I never put salt in my water until like, you know, within the last 10 years, we started doing that. But he just saying like, man, I think it's a, I think it's like a big deal. Like I noticed it. You know, I really like that high sodium. I tell stories about how I used to have Edo, Japan. You know, that like food court, mall food court. I don't know if you guys have Edo down there. I can't remember, but I used to have Edo, Japan all the time. And then I train like 90 minutes later. And I remember looking back now, I'm like, that's what the pumps were coming from. Totally sodium loading. sodium. In my pre-workout meal, you know what I mean? So it was like, I was the pumps and the postworkout map from the MSG. Yes. This is the whole school. Yeah. Yeah. The MSG. The strongest sodium of them all. The monosodium. Yeah. Yeah. The trend of sodium. Yeah. Exactly. That's what you want. That's what you want. Um. Jim membership prices. Why are Jim so much more expensive suddenly? Everything is. Everything's expensive. It's just, yeah. It's like what now? What do you, what do you guys see for Jim? membership prices. Um, I think, I mean, it all varies. Obviously, on where you're going, you're going to pay, to me, average is like 40 bucks. It's normal, American. Like that's what we charge at, um, muscle factories, 40 bucks a month, no contract. Um, you know, then I've got other, I had Jim membership before that had been 150 a month. Just depends on the Jim, what they have. I think this is how I look at things different than a lot of people. Is it amazing to me that people will say like a Jim membership is expensive. Like, what? How many days a week do you go? It's $40. I know. Okay. And you're going, you're going five days a week. Oh, you go twice a day sometimes. Do cardio. So you're visiting there 10 times a week. So you're going there for, so it's a dollar every time. I don't follow the expensive thing. You've lost. Yeah. You know, because when you look at other things that we do for a quick hit, that's, I mean, somebody will say a Jim membership is expensive while drinking a $7 coffee. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Or the pay 15 bucks for a tanning drop in. Yeah. And I'm like, so yeah. So Jim membership is up here like 80 bucks, like 80 to 100 even. Yeah. Yeah. But what is it? Well, kidding, I like what is 80 like 60, 60 US. Yeah. Yeah. So that's not bad. Plus, I think one thing that makes the Jim prices at least in a lot of places I've been lower here is there's more. So you're dealing with that. You know, I mean, well, especially when Jim's around, we're ridiculous in Scott. So I mean, when I used to go to muscle factory, like as in literally passing them as I could see them, I would pass five gyms to get to the gym. Like, not much about how many I actually passed. This phone's like a visually C. So I think that that keeps the prices down as well. But yeah, I also think that, you know, people need to be a little more mindful is like, even if you're paying 100, okay, in the US, think about what you're asking for. You want the equipment to be perfect. When it breaks, you want it fixed. You want the pads done. You want the air conditioning on. You like the music, the bathroom. Like, I don't think people think of what it costs to run a gym properly. When you run a gym, right? And that's what I want. Like if the gym came to me and they said, it's $200 a month, but it'll be fucking flawless. I'm like, done. Let's go. Yeah, yeah. I'm not a thing too for those things. We also learned with the fucking pandemic response that gyms are seen as expendable by the general public. Yeah. So public doesn't think that what we do is important and they think it's selfish and they think it's frivolous and they don't give a fuck about us or our industry. And we have to realize that that alone is going to raise the price of everything to do with it because all the owners now know that the government is not ever going to have our backs. And you know, it's going to change the dynamic of the gym industry. You know, probably the best thing about the pandemic. I was thinking about this the other day, not that I want to talk about the freaking pandemic. But the best thing about it is that it woke a lot of people up to their concept that the government doesn't give a fuck about you and a lot of them hate you. They fucking hate you. They think your life is stupid. They don't give a fuck about you. These gray-haired politicians and all the people that are in office and all your local people. They don't give a fuck about you. This is a paycheck and most of them are career politicians and they will never care what you care about. About what you care about. And re-horsed. That's a good wake up call. That's a good wake up for people. Your politicians are not your friends. None of them. Even the ones at Gladhand you and smile at you and return your emails. None of them. None of them. And the fact that you realize that. The faster you realize that, the better off you'll be. These fucks. They're, this is a paycheck for them and they're going to give themselves a raise while they shut your business. They just did it to everybody for two years. And it's the best thing that could happen to a lot of people. Realize now. They realize now. Why don't you, I don't know if you saw this wrong. But in the US, when they've made this bill to hire all these new IRS agents, Congress also passed a thing saying that they couldn't be looked at. Interesting. Yeah. It's a safe time. Yeah. This time you can't look at this small handful of people that are in this room. But you can look at everyone else. It's like, you're literally sinkers because you can't look at me because I'm paying people off. I'm driving, you know, I'm using information I know to. Yep, exactly. So yeah, that was something I had to wait. I mean, even I who, I always had a very strict political side. Now I realize both sides hate me. Yeah. And that is. Oh yeah. I mean, either one of you are, it's not you and you against each other. It's us against you guys. You against all of us. Yeah. And us. Okay, God. Another thing. Another thing people have to realize is their vote is never. You're never actually voting for your party. You're voting for the party that can block the worst party. That's what your vote is. That's what you need to use your vote for. You need to, you don't try to find a friend in this mess. None of them are your friend. You find the most dangerous enemy and you block and you vote to block them. That's what voting should be for everyone. What is the worst thing that can happen to my life because you should vote in your own best interest. And you go with that. Okay, I'm voting for those people who I all also hate. But their enemies with them. Unforgivably the people I hate to block the people that are more dangerous to my life. And that's what it politics has become to me. That's all it is. Strategic voting to minimize the damage, which is what we live currently in the US. That's my, that's my little drastic damage. Tresty, tangerine. Oh, whatever man. Okay, do you have another one here? Do you think this is the arrest of the episodes for word good? This really made it. Do you think there should be a limit to how many athletes per division compete at the Olympia? I like how it used to be. Is my angry. So there's lots of guys. I liked lots of guys going because I liked, I think what you're running it. And here's why it wasn't about the Olympia. More guys were competing at other shows because they would just pack it in. The goal is the Olympia. They're not mostly these guys. I don't think a lot of the fans realize. Most these guys aren't making it living off a body. So every show is an expense. And their main goal is the Olympia. And most of these guys, bodybuilding is basically a hobby, even though they do it as professionals. So they can't justify competing if it's not going to get into their goal. So they do a show. They take fifth where they take seventh. And they know that the next show is not going to put in the Olympia. So why do another show? The depth of the show is I felt like was awesome all the time when the top three could get in. And yeah, there were 16 guys at the Olympia. But I could tell you, I was at the Olympia in O3, which I think had 16 guys. And every physique up there was fucking awesome. The 16 place guy was better than I ever was. And it was awesome. I mean, so I hate that part. I do understand the other divisions and honestly, I don't watch them, so I don't give it shit. But bodybuilding, female bodybuilding, I just want to see the best people on stage. Because I think we forget, which I'm going to have that top, that's called 20 in the fucking world. I've never been the top 20 in the world or anything I've ever done in my life. So yeah, the top 20 is a bad ass group of people. I want to see all of them. And I paid for a show. I want to watch a show. Maybe we could stop the bullshit that happens during bodybuilding shows. Like, I don't need to see an acrobat. I don't give a fuck. Give me more bodybuilders to watch. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I agree. I think that when you saw at the top three and remember it was the top five from the Arnold and the top five from the night of champions. I can't remember. Those two shows. And then it was the top 10 from last year's Olympia. Oh, I'm all qualified. Do you remember those days? Those guys were all qualified. So what would happen is the guys who were, you know, seventh, eighth, ninth, they usually wouldn't do a show unless they wanted to win some money. Like maybe they thought they could win an Arnold or something. So those guys would jump in a show. Maybe maybe a couple of top five guys might do a show like Flex Wheeler would do the Arnold, you know, that sort of thing. You'd get some of the guys would do other shows. Some of them would just sit on their qualification to come to the Olympia next year, because they were just happy to be top 10 and they just wanted to focus. But then all the other shows I thought were more competitive because top three went to the O. If you're a pro and you know you're not going to win, but you might get top three like fuck. So they would do like, you know, they would hit a couple of shows, try to get a top three place and say, you can go to the O and it made those shows really exciting. And I don't mind seeing 20 guys at the O. Like I remember there was some lineups that were pretty big. I didn't mind it. Yeah, that'd be cool. I'll take this. I went there to see bodybuilding, you know. And I think that like, you know, I mean, we get this now like we'll see, okay, there's Steve Kouklo and Andrew Jack and fucking come all are doing the Texas pro. Like the 99.5% of the other pros are like, oh, why bother? Hmm. Like, wasn't on the flip. That shows. Steve Kouklo's not in the Olympia this year again. Yeah, but he's top three like the show obviously, you know. Yeah, at any show that's not the Olympia or the Arnold, like possibly the Arnold even. And to me, that's a crime that he's not going and a bad business move. Because if I'm a Kouklo fan, I will go to the Olympia to watch him get in the top 10. Yeah. Yeah. If you go bad, it's a thing too. Good. Well, Kouklo, it's going to discourage competitors like Kouklo, that's, you know, he's in, he's a bit of an older bodybuilder. He's late 30s, right? So, you know, how many more years is he going to keep hammering away if he misses the Oh. Yeah. And you don't want to lose Steve Kouklo, like he's fucking awesome. He'd be great at the Oh. Bring fans, past his in seats, everyone loves him. You know, but they're lost. Yeah, I wish I really do wish that you go back to, because there's a lot of that. I mean, to see a guy like that not in the show is a crime to me. Because like you just said, he enters the show and the first thought is will he'll probably win. Which tells you how good he is. If he's entering any show, I mean, he'd be answering the Arnold. There's a chance he can win the Arnold. So it's like, how is a guy who's considered as a possibility to win the Arnold class? Not going to be at the Olympia because we just chose to make it weird. Like, so what if some guys get in? Like, I think it's all, it's kind of backwards. So we treat the entrance into the professional ranks is getting easier and easier. But then the entrance into the Olympia is getting harder and harder. I mean, we can all admit that there are plenty of pro cards out there. I'm having met some people. So like, I'm a pro, I might go, what? Bodybuilding, I'm like, oh, we're here. Like, yeah, you know, and you're just like, okay, and I'm fine with them having their moment, but that's the end. See, when you extracts that Olympia qualification out, it's still not going to run into a guy like me or a guy like them getting in the Olympia. So you're not fucking up the Olympia. Like, you know, I mean, I could say like that could just true. Like, dusty handshoes not going to pop in the Olympia now. The top three make it. So, and also, too, what do you really want to do? What do you guys at win more than one show? You get some guys at win two shows and they don't pass that. Remember they used to push it down. Remember, like if the top three already qualified, then the next three, we're qualified. Yeah, or at least one. I think they did, I think they did that at one point where if the top three in a show were already qualified, they would let the fourth guy go. Yeah. Yeah. But I don't what you mean, I don't know. Yeah, yeah. Plus, you know, y'all also love another element is, I used to love when a guy would get into the O on a third place qualification, but then he would show up at the O improved and he would beat some guys that were ahead of him at the show he got in at. Yeah. And maybe like maybe make top 10 out of the blue or something like that. There's also that. You know, I love giving people the chance to do that. You know, get all those underdogs in there. You get like 10 underdogs in there. Well, that's what I mean. Let's factor in this and I know a lot of reviews won't know this, but I don't think Gunter Slayer Camp won a show to get the Olympia where he took fifth. No, I don't think he didn't. So that qualification was either a third place, a second place or the previous Olympia. Whatever it was, we'll have to look it up. But it definitely wasn't a win. So he would have never even been on that stage to bypass so many guys, steal the show essentially. I mean, literally, that's all I've been talking about on the ground with a buck did you come from? He wouldn't have been at that show on today's rules. That's what the game is. Who else would have barely done the Olympia? Marcus Rul would have barely done an Olympia. Maybe a copy. He won two shows. He won the show on the show on the new Toronto Pro. Not a champion. New York Pro. Yeah, yeah. Yep. Toronto Pro and Knight of Champions. Yeah. And if you think they might have been in the same year, I think that's what we're doing this year. So one so like, so like, you know, I remember all those years that went to the O and and rule would come out. And I just caught the tail end of rule. I caught like his last few Olympias. But like to not have Marcus Rul there would have been like a missing moment. Because like the whole crowd goes, and it's like the whole room changed from Marcus Rul. Because he was a fanfaker. Yeah, he did eight. You know, he didn't get a pause. He didn't get a pause. He got Rul. Yeah. It was like awesome. And you're like, oh, that guy's like a little special. Like the crowd knows that he's he's separate. They treat him different. He's like, he's a factor in the show. He's not going to win it. But the crowd fucking happy he's here. And he'd go nuts for him. You know, and he's like 11. You know, when's the last time in 11th place guy changes the whole room? Yeah, true. You know, those were a good days, man. Fun Olympias. You, you wonder how they got away from that. Now they're sitting at like, I have to think, especially now the Olympias change hands and they can communicate ideas like, purely from a business standpoint. I'd be like, I need Google on the show. I mean, for Fox X's family alone is 72 people. Yeah. They're all getting tickets. I mean, Steve has the best tight knit group of people that fall in my ever seen. I mean, no exaggeration. 20 people from like his friends go to the Olympia. Yeah. Like, yeah, damn. I won't get one. I'm like, yeah, I'm like, yeah, I'm like, yeah. And then there's a couple hundred live streams on their two, at least. Yeah, exactly. You don't think about that. Crazy. I got one of this one. I got one of this one. Right. Both of us. That's he's going to love this one. No, I'm both in my eyes. Yeah. What? How's this? What life changing item can you buy for less than $100? So, is there some life changing? Okay, let's hear it. Do what? Do what? Do what? Hey, change. They've got loads of like a hint of mint sent to it, which is like, brushing your teeth for your asshole. Amazing. Right. Right. Right. Yeah, yeah. Amazing. And maybe. Okay, grab dinner with a low $99 sense. You still got 90 bucks left. Yeah, you think I got 90 nine. 90 nine bucks left. We got your dude wife. You got your your Mac. You know, I could, I could probably let's 20 things. Still have many left over for my $100. Oh, man, let's see. I mean, Lily, it's just so easy for me. Tupperware. Tupperware is life. Good. Imagine life is top of where with a nice snap. Yeah, yeah, that is life changing. Yeah, that's under a Honda. Some good. We're off. You can't go back. You said plastic after that. Only fans membership. Boom. Seven bucks. Can you do buy some for private videos? I don't they follow the two dollar girls. He's all about four accounts. That's volume. My got you. I mean, literally, the hundreds too big. He got bring that down like six. Then the game. 10 bucks. What can you buy from him? 10 bucks. You know what's funny? I have a friend that does this. He and his wife are rich, like very, very rich. So the rule for Christmas is be creative. And each of you has a hundred dollars. Right. That's like makes it fun. Because you got to think. I mean, any can be fun. They could be, you know, heart felt whatever. There you got a hundred bucks when you're rich. It's hard. Whereas if you're loaded, like I bought your Range Rover. She's like again. Yeah. You know, so I don't know. But yeah, 100 is easy to make. Because I mean Chuck Taylor's for crying a lot of bam. That is life changing. If you see my strength, go up as soon as I bought those fuckers. And I know. I know. I mean, how the good bottle of trend boom. Yeah. All right. Do the question again in a week with under $10. We'll try again. I can go all day with 100. Okay. Let's do under 10 next time. What about what? Is there any you can buy for your gun for under 100 bucks? Is there any little like, what can you get for under 100 bucks? It helps out with your gun. You can get all sorts of things. You can see the loader. Yeah. Here's the thing is that you buy the gun. And you're like, okay, that was $500. You know, that wasn't too bad. But then you buy the magazines and magazines are 15, 20 bucks. But then you want, you know, you get that like I had that extended magazine. That's going to be like 40 bucks. Something like there's all sorts of things you can buy for under $100. You can probably, you can probably get close to buying like an upgraded trigger. You can get better sights for under 100 bucks. You get a lot of ammo for 100 bucks. You get a lot of stuff. Do it up. Whole stunts. Guns are less than I thought they were. Like for just a 9 millimeter. I don't know why. I guess because it's such an amazing piece of equipment to me. Yeah. The idea that a gun is so inexpensive blows my mind. I mean, I know people will laugh at me because I'm saying I'm an inexpensive. But I mean, like a good hangout is like when I asked you like, what was that total setup? It was like off the chain. You were like, I don't know, like $1300. I was like, oh, yeah, yeah, you can, you could set such an up. It's a really nice for, you know, 1500 bucks. Maybe he was red dot. And I mean, you still have to shoot it. That gets expensive, you know, because the ammo adds up. But yeah, yeah, you get the gun and stuff. Down payment on the ammo. Yeah. Yeah. You can get a nice setup. So like a block is going to be around like 5600, 600 bucks, maybe. Now that I've to raise a question. Ron, have you been shooting? Have you been shooting Ron? Yeah. I went a couple of times now. Here's a question for Scott. If I'm just going to send some rounds. Yes. Send a 9 millimeters. I'm just just having fun just trying to group my target. Send it. Like I was trying. How much should I be spending on bullets? Like what kind of like what rate of bullet do I actually need? Do I need the best bullets? Or can I just go with the cheapest bullets to do those? Make my gun dirty air like you know what? You advise mid range bullets. Like what do you what do you do? They say that steel case ammo isn't as good for your gun. It'll wear the parts out quicker. And that might be kind of true. And you know what for maybe for your situation. Rass him in. Yeah. Maybe for your situation. You might want to consider it more. For me, I'd be like, yeah, if run 5000 rounds for this gun, it's still working fine. Down the road, I might need to buy a new gun. Okay. You might not have that option. So for you, I would say probably run brass. But you don't need anything special. You know, just like standard brass. You know 115 grain rounds. Just range ammo. I'll drop a couple boxes of some federals that I bought. There you go. Yeah. No. Yeah. So I'm like that. How much is a couple boxes of those? Would they cost up there? Oh fuck. Shit. I don't even know what I paid, man. I just tapped my card. Like 15 boxes. Yeah. I can't even know. But like 15. And that's funny. I bought it. I bought a case. And I bought like my eyewear and stuff. So I don't actually know what I paid for the ammo. Yeah. I'm so happy right now because this is something I wouldn't have known about run. Because that's me. I'll come home and make you like, what just been a grocery store. I don't know. I don't know. It's like what do you mean you don't know? I'm like, I put it in the bag. Tap my phone. I double clicked. It got the face recognition. We were done. Yeah. I put it in the bag. I know I scanned everything. Ron doesn't know. I would have guessed it. Ronald had been like 87. 26. Give her take. Oh, that's funny. I don't even know what I paid. It's all right. I'm so proud right now. I'm so proud. This is not thought it was more than a circle. How much did you start? How much did you say you thought it was? So well here you might pay for 9 millimeter around 15 in all say like to be generous. I'll say around 15 to 20. If you're go to the range, you might spend $20 up for 50 rounds. I'm a 50 round box. Yeah. You might spend 20 if you buy it from the range. Maybe even a little bit more 25 or something. But I'd say 15 is a good price. That's about what I usually pay between 30. I just realized how much ammo I bought my mom's boyfriend for Christmas. Could I not know? I gave him $1,000 for ammo. That's good. That would work. That's good. How much is that? Like, so you can get a case, a case of like a thousand rounds of 9 millimeter for maybe $400. But if you're shopping around. Oh, cool. So you got a bunch. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I got a couple of times. I just didn't really know how much that was. Because I just know what I used to go with my buddies the range. And they had like he worked for a protection company. Yeah. I just realized how much we used. I was like, oh, you need a lot. Yeah. Because we wasted so much. You know? Yeah. And you can, you fire off when you go. Usually like 300, 400. It depends. But yeah, maybe it depends on what I'm doing. If I go to the one range where I can draw, then I'm only firing usually like 1 to 3 rounds each time I draw. And then I holster and I reset my timer, hit start weight, and go. So like in an hour, I could really, if I was careful with it, I could shoot really even 50 rounds in 30 minutes. Maybe something like that. So I could be really conservative with it. Or if you want to do like a build drill where you have to fire off a bunch of rounds at once to try to work on keeping it tight with rapid fire. And then it's going to, you know, you could eat up through the rounds fast that way. Yeah. So 50 bucks. I guess I just paid 49. That's not bad. That's not for two boxes for 100 rounds. Yeah. 100 rounds. Yeah. That's not too bad then. Yeah. It's range for 100 rounds. 100 rounds. Yeah. Yeah. That's range for ACEs for sure. That's good. Yeah. OK. That's great. You could do better. Probably if you guys have online, but I don't even know if you guys can, it might be like a federal crime to ship ammo in the mail. I can't eat up. You know, no, you can order and have it shipped. But there's the story that I go to is like two minutes from the gym. Yeah. Everything is just so close to the gym here. So it's awesome. Awesome. That's funny. I'm glad I made your proud destiny. You did. There's an amazing moment. Here's one for you. Someone's got a music question. That's really good. What's the band? What's the band that you hate that everyone else loves? Maroon 5. Does everybody else really love Maroon 5? I think everyone hates them. I don't know how they're so popular. I can't do it this way. Is it singer from Maroon 5 again? Is it the singer? Famous guy. Adam LeBee. Adam LeBee. He was funny because I was standing at in Vegas by the poker tables. Just and um, and I was with a couple of people and all of a sudden the one girl. She started freaking out. She's like, oh my god, I got that. That's Adam LeBee. And I was like, where? She's like right beside you. I was like standing right at him LeBee and was sitting at a table playing poker like right beside us. Sweaty. And then I looked at him and I was like, oh yeah, that is him. He's got all the tats and stuff who's kind of funny. But that's my only Maroon 5 story. That's good. I'm glad you don't have more. I'm not a pink. I'm not a, I'm not a, I'm not a, so as far as like, I don't really know what other people like now. But as far as classic rock bands go, I was never, I just couldn't do pink Floyd and, and as much of a Canadian as I am and as much respect as I have for them for being amazing musicians, I know you're going to say this. I'm not a rush fan. I knew you were going to say rush fan. Yeah. I just can't do rush. I can't do pink Floyd. But I understand that they are both like unbelievably important musical group. That have like influenced and changed all the music that I do love. Like all the bands that I really love, they list rush and pink Floyd. Like so I was, I wouldn't do really much sense. Right. It's like, you know, it doesn't really make sense. But yeah, I just couldn't get into either one of those bands. We're all in a rush. Respect respect, but now I will say I went through a pink Floyd phase early 90s. They're in like the whole drug portion of my life. That's going to, that's not going to say about it. That was funny joke. I was like, am I allowed to make that joke? Yeah, yeah, I like pink Floyd a lot at that point. Like there is, because there's there's so many like layers to the music. And you ever notice that like, I remember, I can't remember what song it was. It wasn't even pink Floyd. But I remember hearing it all my life and then hearing it after I smoked weed. And I heard this sound, this one little sound that was happening in the music that I had never heard before. And then after that, I always could hear it. Like it was something I just never picked up on. And I feel like pink Floyd really had like a lot of those textures, you know, that like there was so many little things you could hear. That's one of the things about them. Like I've, I've sat and listened to pink Floyd on purpose before. Like I've, I've, I've, I've even tried. Yeah, well, I listened to Dark Side of the Moon and myself once. Like I was at home one night. I smoked a joint made of me on. I listened to the Dark Side of the Moon album. Yeah. And I get it. Like I get it. Yeah. It's, it's amazing. It's complex. It's layered. There's so much going on. They're like another level of musicianship above. It's different. There's like nobody like them, you know? No. But it was just like, it didn't, to me, it didn't rock. Yeah. It was like, it was like floating in space. It wasn't like, yeah. I can, you know, I couldn't, I need something. I, I got a lot of this. God, I got a lot of this. I got to get it out. Get it out. Get it out. I got to get it out. We just got the clip. Run, set to nice guy. Run, set to nice guy. Run, set to nice guy. Run, set to nice guy. It's like, that's because I get it out. I got, ways to get it out. You know, all stop pink Floyd. It's not pink Floyd. Not at all. Wow. If I didn't have, if I didn't have my, my exits, I would just explode. So the clarity that I just got on what pink Floyd is not. Yeah. Yeah. Very clear now. At least I'm not clear. What pink Floyd is not to run. Right? I'm excited. I need help. We need help with certain things. These are wrong rules. We have more rules. Oh shit. Okay. Let's, let's, I want to talk about one thing. I just thought that I'd throw this up because I thought it was like, you know, up our alley. But I sent this to you guys. I just wanted to take a minute. I saw that Ben Chow posted this the other day. And it's just a picture of Luke. Oh yeah. This picture of Luke. And, you know, bonkers. And, um, it's funny to look at this picture now, isn't it? And think what the fuck? How would he be doing now? Yeah. It's no kidding. Crop. Man, that would be cool. We're here as later. It's, um, it'd be cool to see him battling with like a little younger. Yeah. I mean, I think in an Olympia was out of hand for him at all. No. Because he was still, he was still getting the mental side down. We're just doing it. Yeah. You know what I mean? And Chris and him were, we're had found their formula. And he had complete trust and Chris, which took away a lot of the issue he had coming in to shows. Yeah. It's, I, I really, it's sound, I'm sure something will get it. But like knowing the behind the scenes that I know about, just, he didn't know how good he was. I mean, and, and there's a bunch of those. I don't think a lot of guys who who haven't been this close to some of his guys can even imagine and wrong, I've talked about this before, like him, Sejrkhm, Thmillan. There's a guy who you look at in pose and you don't even know what to say. Because there's so much going on that when you sound like said, you look nuts. He's like, do I? And he means it. He's like, really? Who will get a flat? How do you not, how do you not know? How do you not know this? Like Luke locked in. I would feel very confident saying he would win at least in Olympia 2, which I know he said he was only going to win one and be done. But I really think he could have won one. And, uh, yeah, as I told you guys when you sent that, I, I, I, I credit the world shutdowns for for him not giving the chance to do that. Yeah, I, um, I tell this story all the time. I've told it before on the show, but like, you know, not to make myself sound old. But I've seen a lot of body builders like for like a lot. Like I've seen hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of guys that were awesome and they're going to be pros and this guy's got it and you should see this guy. I've seen so many of them. And I'll never forget the first time I saw Luke at the body power expo. Didn't have a clue who he was. He was still an amateur. He was at another supplement company booth right next to the mutant booth. Where in his rider wear floppy rider wear shoes and a pair of shorts and a tank top. And I remember I walked up to the mutant booth and put my bag down and looked over at his booth. And my first saw was who the fuck is that? That guy's got everything. Yeah, everything. I can send their short and tank tops and I knew I knew I looked at him and I'm like, uh, I'm no dummy. That guy's got everything. Who the fuck's that guy? And I walked right over to him. I was like, hey, what's going on? And he's like, Ron Potlow, I remember he knew what was like, hey, and he's like, I'm Luke. And I was like, hey, and we just started talking and I realized he wasn't a pro yet. And I was just like, what the fuck? And there is like, you see some people and you think, oh, I'm in a room for the guys that are all aspiring pro body builders and and you're like, oh, that's what they're all against. Yeah, that guy with that. That, that, that, that those genetics, those muscle bellies. I remember thinking like, I knew it was the end for me soon. You know, there's only so much space in this body building. I got to figure out something else to do if you guys like this aren't even pro yet. This is fucking stupid. I remember thinking that. I just had a memory of something they had to do with him that I, I forgot about this. I never mentioned it on the podcast before. But it was the second time he was at the Arnold. And I was sitting at pre-judging in the in the in the press area this time. The the time before was when Jordan, I believe, was coaching him and Jordan came over and saw a sitin with Jordan and Scott Stevenson. And we, we watched him and he didn't do his great, you know, but then he came back and he really surprised himself at that show that he got third. But during pre-judging, I was sitting there not too far back. And at this moment when they're doing their poses, it got quiet and I yelled out. I was like, because he used to do this podcast called the size game. And I yelled out. And I yelled out. I go size game podcast. Like, real loud. And at that moment, the room also got quiet. So like, I just was the only voice just like, but a little that out. And then he hit his pose, you know. And then later back stage, I was like, hey, did you hear somebody else side? He was like, yeah, I heard that. It was like, yeah, that was me. He's like, oh my God. So I came on cast. Yeah, I'm really happy. I'm sure people are like, what the fuck is that guy doing? But I didn't care, you know, right, you're like me at the Dallas show a couple weeks ago. Just yelling no one else yelling just silent. Yeah. This way should be. I was loved hearing that when he got third, he had forgotten how much money he was going to make. Yeah, he was just an amateur. Well, he forgot he was getting any money at all. That was the Chris. I got that video Chris say like, what are you using? What are you going to spend the money on? Just jokingly and he's like, oh, no, it was it was I don't know if it's the same again. But it was we were backstage, me and VJ and we saw him and it was like, I was really uncomfortable because like Arnold's there. It was the area where like, I remember like, I was like, oh my God, dude, I can't believe you just so good. He was like, yeah, and then and then Aaron, singer, and turned to me, he's like, you got to keep it down back. You got to get the Dom back here. You know, because like it was like not like the fans area, it was like the backstage backstage area. And anyways, he took some he I took a picture for him and Aaron, Aaron wanted to picture with him. And then he was like, what do you guys do? And you want to come with me back here where he was like getting his close? We're like, yeah, let's go. So we we fallen back and I turned my phone on and we got back there and he's putting his stuff down and then he picked up the check again. And I have an on video. I should get I should do something, put it on here or something on YouTube. Maybe like do it with do like watch it with Ben or something. Because I think he would enjoy it. Yeah. And he was like, holy shit. I got I forgot. I got I got I got paid for this. He's like, I got a check and he pulled it out. He was like he was just so pumped because he was just like so taken back and it was cool. It was like it was a cool video because like William Barnock, we walked by him and Barnock was like, there's a new there's a new king in town or something like that and they had a hug and and he can gradually do it. And so well, you know, and it's just like he was just beaming, you know. It was really cool. Like a real special moment. I feel really lucky to have that with him, you know. Yeah, I remember when that was third at that Arnold, right? Third at the Arnold. Yeah, yeah. I remember when when he got that, I remember being so happy for him because I was like, okay, now everyone is forced to take this guy as seriously as we all know, yeah, he should be taken. You know what I mean? Oh yeah. You got those cynics that don't even see the physique. They just see the placings, right? Like I was seventh. So yeah, did you see him though? Yeah, you see what he's what he's capable of, you know, like when I saw him at the expo, he wasn't a pro, but I could just see how I looked at him. I was like, oh my god. Like yeah, that's yeah. That's what everyone wants to look like. You know, that's the ultimate freak physique. You know, they're standing relaxed in the the tri-step stick out as far as the delts. You know, and they you're just like, oh god. So yeah, so funny. Okay. Is that it, boys? I think we have to end it that note because anything beyond that is downhill. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So like share, subscribe, comment, and the bell. And I question questions for the next show. Questions on YouTube, questions on YouTube. They get priority. And so if you got a question, to be happy to answer it. One more thing. Don't DM me questions. I do screenshot them and I save them, but I forget and my phone gets mubbled up and put them on the YouTube or send them to the question boxes. That's the best way to ask questions. I know a lot of you have asked multiple questions through DMs and it's hard to get back to them. There's just so much going on. Yeah. So yeah, there you go. And also to, I was going to say something else, but I forget now. You know, oh, you know, the mutant thing. Mutant supporting us. So I definitely have noticed a huge uptick in the number of times my codes getting used. Cool. So thank you to everyone who's in my code, big Ron 20. I'm sure Dusty has seen the same thing. So Dusty 20, Dusty 20. So remember the codes. I am mutant.com. Thanks to them for supporting the show. New webcam coming for me. So I can make this better. There we go. I okay. Okay. Thanks everybody and remember it's just bodybuilding.

Well, what my Wi-Fi is good because I'm not an Airbnb. I'm not. I'm not. But where are you on it every story I'm on the island? Huh? Anybody? Did you bring a bike? No, I didn't. Come on, bud. Come on up. I don't even know who you are. You brought his dog, then bring the bike. Come on, Jed. There we go. Is he coming up for the show? Let's get him in here. There he is. Get the chair of his own. He's his own man. He don't need to share chairs. Ronson, his Airbnb right now. Yeah. Yeah. Hey. Look at this guy. Look at this guy. How's he like the island? He loves it. He loves it. He thinks his holiday is all for him. So proud of his. Mom and dad giving him a tour of the island. Felicia, you guys could do with all he does for you. I know. He's very aggressive, liquor, and requires hugs and constant attention. There's absolutely no one around. Okay. Episode. We're not allowed to say it because Scott hates us. I've had my wins clicked. Yeah, exactly. We're all the time. Ron, don't you dare. I'm from higher ups. I don't think that people know why. I think they just like maybe thought it was like a creative decision. We just shouldn't do it. Yeah. Because sometimes we have, you know, we might, well, like, we were trying to get a guest for today that didn't work out. If we had that guest, that show would go out before other episodes. So then Ron would be like, hey, it's