. Our producer's got me now, my co-host Dusty Anxia, myself Big Ron Parlo, and today on the show, we're bringing in a guest, and you know, we only go big with guests. We don't waste your time. We have Dennis, Wolf, Hall of Fame, I've been one of the greatest physiques to ever-grace the Olympia stage. Arnold Classic Champion. I could go on and on and on. What else do I say about you Dennis? I'm all in Ron. Thank you for having me to show, and I thank you guys nice seeing you all. And yeah, you look all great. Muddy-rated and healthy. That's a well-account right now, I guess. We're all getting all of that. It's not fun. You get all the news in the list couple years. It's so crazy. Yeah. Anyway, thank you guys for having me at the show and glad to be here. Yeah, Dennis. You know, you were one of the most impactful physiques on me. You know, I finished competing in 2015, so, you know, those last several years, the last 10 years I was competing. You were one of the guys that was on the scene and kicking ass and doing the Olympia, and you know, won the Arnold and all that. And, and at someone who was just over six feet tall, there weren't a lot of guys on the scene that had pulled that off. And I think you possibly may be pulled it off better than anybody else ever with the physique you put on your frame. Who else do you consider to be in your league when you're talking about six footers? Oh, yeah, thank you for the compliments. Yeah, I think the next day is in my time, 23 minutes was another X. Yeah, I already come back and decoding what X man. Yeah, X man. So, and he put me in trouble in 2008 until Olympia and I was worried, you, you was going to beat me badly, you know, like on stage. And yeah, I ended up beating him and finishing fourth and he was fifth. But man, he looked incredible that year. Also another guy, you can remember probably Quincy Taylor, but he didn't make that far, unfortunately, but he was told and, you know, me and Tony. So, yeah, Tony was unbelievably bootstructured and nice, you know, flow flow physique and all of that, you know, and this is very rare if you are six foot or taller. So, yeah, until today I get so many compliments and, you know, from the dollar guys, you know, like you said, I did a lot of huge impact on, yeah, on the total guys, back in the days because, you know, we all know, that's hard to kind of fill out the frame if you told, you know, short of guys, so it's, you know, easier, but we think the total guys because it goes quicker and they always look round and the total guys getting flat very, very fast and all of that. It's just, you know, a lot more work to do, I guess, you know. What, did you, how tall are you? You're six foot, right? Was that your official height? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, I also remember Gunter was a big deal. You know, I, but there weren't. Gunter was my, you know, going into the community, you know, bodybuilding community, you know, start training, start, you know, competing. Gunter was, you know, one of the best Germans back then, you know, human market rule, but they were still competing and as soon as I came, you know, into the pro league. I just completely once with Gunter, but many times with, with market rules. So, Gunter was from almost the same place where I came from, you know, where, you know, there were like maybe 20 miles apart, the towns, it's no towns. And, you know, when I came to the gym, you know, daily stories about Gunter, about his, you know, beginnings and all of that. So, you kind of impact me a little bit. Of course, when I was, you know, building of my career, yes. And then I had that opportunity to meet him first time in 2004 in, in LA, to firehars. And, yeah, we got to have a good conversation that was great, right the time when he beat Ronnie Coleman and the, I think, G and C show something. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, Gunter, Gunter was taller than me or he still told me. And, but, yeah, I mean, he's used from the same area and there was always, you know, a huge honor to kind of, you know, best to, you know, all the times and kind of beat his records all the time, you know. So, because if you hear stories, when Gunter came to the show, like you, he was still a junior, competitor and he was building everyone. So, at the way he's everybody knew, oh, damn, it's, you know, it's, it's, it's, it's getting more work. So, all the stories, Gunter, you know, make a few, man, that was a really different time. But now, if you look back then, when I was competing and compared it to now, that's, you know, another world. What, what was a, give us some insight into how you, you started competing and realizing you were really good, you know, realizing you had more than most of the other guys and you were going to maybe go farther. You know, can you give us some insight into your mind, set as you learned, you know, I got it. Yeah, well, I think it's, it's a lot to do with your mentality, but if you don't know where you at, you cannot build out your mentality or, or your, or you, or you, on certain things like, you know, competing. So, if you're not there yet, so you're just started building muscles, you know, and then if you realize, oh, man, a lot of, all the guys, who've been training in the gym for years and years, maybe decades, you know, talk, start talking to you and like, you know, like, you're planning to compete and things like that. So that's where you're lies, man, that's probably something right what I do, you know, because if, you know, they, they, they, good looking guys in the gym, you know, I'm talking about good looking guys is like muscular. But, but you know, but you let's just eggs, right? So they, they come up to you and, uh, they'll tell you like that, you know, then you start thinking that that was the first thing. And then, of course, the first show, um, I wasn't, you know, I didn't want anything, but I, yeah, after I came so strong that, you know, the most people didn't recognize me, uh, doing the way in, you know, or, um, even before we got on straight. So they, they didn't remember me from the exactly year ago, uh, last year was the same time with November, uh, 99 and then you later, the members, those were the goals. So I went on stage and later when I went down after the pre-judging, like, you know, I felt like a superstar everybody came up to me at like, man, you, you're, you're Dennis from last year, you know, so I made so many improvements that people kind of didn't know, I was competing last year and, uh, yeah. So after that, um, you know, I went to the German Championships, finished fort, uh, in a very, very strong lineup. Yeah, and I thought that I started thinking about, you know, maybe building it out a little bit and, uh, you know, yeah, going full in, you know, turning pro maybe one day. So, but the good thing is, um, doing my off season after just one, uh, my first show, I started getting, um, like, just appearances from the gyms, you know, so I was, I was, you know, making money on the weekends, you know, doing some some posings, and the gyms, you know, and that's where I kind of start understanding man, um, it works. So why not? That's awesome. What was your first visit to the states and what was that like as a, as a bodybuilder? Um, the first visit was 2003. Um, there was, there was a time when I was competing in another, at another iteration, just, you know, uh, I think two shows. And, um, there was a show in South France, and I met a guy from United States. He was a judge and also a reverent. So I invited me and my wife, no, actually you invited me. So I went there for a guess at the, uh, at his show in Philadelphia. Very, very small show. Um, at the time I met Sean Rodin. He was invited and, um, Prince, um, I mean, he was famous at the amateur, um, um, events, or the time he was guest-posing a lot. Prince, I don't know. I don't remember story guys. But, um, you know, I was guest-posing and after that, I asked, a driver and Dr. Richard Brown, if he could marry me in my wife. So you said, yeah, I went out. Of course, I can do it. So then my wife came to Philadelphia. We had trouble to get the, uh, the license to get married in Philadelphia, because we were shooting in the, um, studio or someplace. I don't know, to get this license. And the thing was, I, I couldn't translate from my wife, but my wife couldn't understand English. So we tried to get it because, you know, they were afraid that I would force her into the marriage, what I thought. So that, you know, so we could get the, the license in Philadelphia. So in, uh, after a couple of days, um, Dr. Reverend, uh, Richard Brown, he called, uh, some friends in Delaware. And they told me, hey, that's my problem here. So we went to Delaware and, um, yeah, got the license and got married in Philadelphia. That was my first visit to the United States in 2004. So, so, so it wasn't even, it wasn't even Los Angeles. Oh, no, I mean, what's people from Germany got me, you know, getting married in Las Vegas, so sorry, you know, got married. Yeah, yeah. Um, so, how, when did you, uh, when did you, you really realized like, I could win the big shows, like, an Arnold Classic is possible for me. But when did that really become a belief that you had? I think after, you had the famous 2007, the five finisher, you know, my second Olympia. After that, I, you know, the plan was to come to 2007, let me still Olympia and to make the top 10 because the year prior, I was out of the top 15, uh, was a little bit pissed, but I was already in my mind heading to the Olympic Games, because I knew, you know, at that time, back then it was normal. So I knew I was, I will be, you know, probably just doing my thing, but, um, you know, I don't get the chance or not, don't get the comparison, um, you know, I deserve. So that was my thinking already because, you know, I'm from, you know, abroad, I'm not an American, you know, that was back then. I mean, you guys probably remember it was always, uh, big, big team, you know, you know, people from abroad thought, that's very, very hard to get into it, but, you know, if you put your mind into it and then work again, you can, you could make it of course. But anyways, 2007, when, um, you know, the crowd went nuts, you know, and then, uh, how I looked and how everything just went through the whole weekend, you know. I didn't get the comparisons, probably I should get, but I get the importance of the pairzons, so that people and judges understood like, oh, where I'm at, you know, and I was just 20, 28 to use, oh, you know, so that was, that was the beginning. So, and then I thought, after finishing so strong, uh, to win in 2007, I thought, man, um, the world is open, man. I really thought, yeah, I can do a lot of, you know, wins, but, um, like I said, then I started kind of switching out a lot of the bid with, working with another three in our house and love, love, and, you know, just, it was like two, two years, two, three years, I was kind of, not, not, you know, improving. So I could probably, you know, be at the peak already and, you know, coming to the top. So it's like, when I go back on that, it was wasted time. That was no more guru, it was right? Exactly, so I took 2010, I was probably four, uh, quarter, a quarter. I said, no way, I'm not doing it anymore. I'm just, you know, I know what I, what I did before, you know, I know my body, I feel everything, I know what to do, I know how to be body reacts, when I do this, when I do that, you know, and, um, so I was just training my body and training my, my, um, my senses, you know, kind of, two, two, three act on time, you know, not too late, not too early. So, and it took me also, uh, while to, yeah, to realize how everything works exactly, you know, with, with, with my body work better, better to say how my body works with, you know, all of the things I do, you know, so yeah, it was, was tough time, but, you know, experience is better than anything else, you know, you, you know, it's up and that, you know, that, that my experience, you know, I use my experience now in order to prepare my, my, my, my, my, my, it leads and all that. So, it's, it's, it's, you know, good, I'm right now, back then there was, it was a time, money, you know, I mean, you sure, if you're not finishing in a top three or top five, it's a Olympic, you're not getting a good big check, right? So, if you're out of top seven or six, you know, here you're around 10 grand, you know, but in the top five, you're like 30, 40, 50,000, this is what extra goals in your pocket, you know, I mean, you all had sponsor, you know, contracts and all of that back in the days that was completely different story and that, but everything, what you want or did, like, extra, like, your experience is, well, there was all good, right? So, you're, you're kind of lost some money experimenting, you know, coming in in a good condition or not, you know, you know, all of that, you know, it's, it's a lot of time and money. What, what made you decide to, well, and to, what made you decide to have a prep coach after your top five finish at the Olympic that you're, why did you decide to give that a go? I was working with Milos and somehow I don't know what happens, we kind of didn't communicate anymore that often and, you know, and I went to, um, I was, you know, I wanted to try out, you know, if you young and in the beginning of it you really think, some coaches do know more or, you know, you do a lot different things, but, and of the day it's, most of the other say and, you know, it just, it depends on what you're doing, and you know, but, and of the day it's, most of the other say and, you know, it just depends on the peaking or not peaking, you know, so that was how you should, yeah, you know, I was not peaking or I was peaking and then losing it, doing it during the campaign comparisons or I was looking a lot better, like, two days out and then, I mean, they have to show, I was, you know, like, 20 to 20 percent worse compared to what I looked today's prior, you know, so, and that was, you know, also like, you know, what, what, make me think like, no, I mean, I had so many coaches already and, yeah, just doing it myself and then I can blame myself, you know, that's it, you know, something went wrong. What do you think was your very best look like what what pictures do you look at and you think, God damn, I looked good. Yeah, everything from 2005 onward. I'll say in my pro career, 2007, like, oh, I did four shows, all of them, three shows, all of them. I looked amazing, I think, you know, like winning the kiss and pro, I looked so crazy good or finishing, you know, placing third that the New York pro, before that, you know, there was branch and Venice James, first and second, that was a tough show and we all looked amazing and I think, like, yeah, like, I will honestly say the whole year, 2007, I like that and of course, 2013 when I was placed, third until Winter and many, many people didn't see the pictures from 2012. I didn't even mistake, I, you know, in a preparation when I was speaking, like, last two days, I decrease it my soul, it takes so low, you know, drastically, it was so low that I lost so much volume in my muscle and it took me, yeah, I mean, I had no chance to fill it up, you know, again, that short amount of time before the pre-judging, you know, so that's why 2012 was probably one of my worst years, but honestly, if I will just do what I did, like the whole week, I would be much better, you know, in a much better condition and we'd rather better package on stage than 2013. That was the mistake I was talking about, everything by yourself, you're experimenting and I don't know why, but most of the body was talking to a lot of friends with them. You start not thinking clear if you're so close, you know, to the short, you know, because, you know, all the low carb stuff, I think your brain is just, you know, start messing with you, you know, you think then, oh man, I need to do something different to, you know, got that last, you know, condition, you know, so, and then I decided to do our check with Dennis James, like five weeks out, three weeks out, or two weeks out, just to have someone who can tell me, look, everything isn't on point, do whatever you do, or man, you need to hurry or whatever, you know, so that's what I start doing and that helped me a lot because when somebody like Dennis gave me that, you know, advices, you feel better because he's more experienced guy, I mean, he's 10 years old, he's competing 10 years longer than I do, you know, so, and then you, you, you calm, you're, you're good, you know, so you're just doing, you're, you think so, yeah, like I said, you know, you're, you're head messing with you, when you're close to the show, you know, so, yeah, that was the mistake, but like I said, 2007, and 13, my best looks. Who, who were some of the guys, I mean, the era that you competed in was such a fantastic era, you know, you had, you had the, all the jay years, I mean, you know, you still had Victor was still there and just such a great group of guys, you had Kai Green coming up and Phil, he's joining the ranks and like just a crazy time for bodybuilding. What were some of the, the physics that that you looked at and fought, fuck, that's, that's a, that's an amazing bodybuilder, you know, who, who impress Dennis Wolf, because you were like the biggest guy, like you were like the widest guy with the biggest legs and all that stuff, but who, who did you look around at and think damn. Thank you. Um, look, it, it, the beginning, when I just, you know, turned pro and it was, I don't remember, I think it was Iron Man 2008. I was watching live and, so, Phil, it, I mean, there was a lot of waves going, you know, and around him, his name and, and he was on the cover, he was on the cover already, but he didn't compete again, so, and I was watching the live stream, you know, like early morning and he, he, he, he, he, and that looked when you won the Iron Man, that look was so impressive, you know, I was like, man, I'm, I'm probably gonna lose against those guys easily or, you know, I'm not that impressive as he is, because like, like everything, everything was so full, but striated, um, to the limits, you know, and the, the, the, the, the density of the muscle or, uh, the separation, all of that, the whole package was just insane. I was, I was looking at this and they were like, oh my god, I was, uh, almost kind of, you know, like, like, having that feeling somebody punched me, you know, and so I need to get up again, so, because it's a, a problem, my head, honestly, yeah, yeah, you were, they're good, really, really good, but that's, that's year, I'm believe we're good, yeah. I, we've often said on the show that Phil is the, uh, like the, the Mr. Olympia that got the least amount of love, you know, and then in hindsight, everyone realizes how unbelievable he was. You know, he was such a dominant champion that, you know, everyone loves to it, the kind of, you know, people are, they want the champion to get, you know, I want that guy to get beat, you know, and people cheering for Kai and all that. But looking back on it, we've, we've all talked about how like, no one was beating him. People thought someone was going to beat him and like, no, no. Just a little man, like like the, the other physique, which is developed completely, so there was nothing to, you know, to grow or less to grow or to work on that on that, it was complete, you know, I mean, we're not not talking about structure, bone structure or whatever, but his physique was complete, and, you know, and I think that was my, um, what I was missing, you know, I, I could complete my physique to 100% where, how I wanted, you know, so 2015 was my last year, you know, since 2016 it was like, you know, kind of, you know, healing, yeah, so, so, you know, we know that your neck, your, your C spine basically kind of collapsed on you didn't it the discs went in your neck. Yeah, yeah, so yeah, and you had that off, you had that off you was, yeah, you had your neck fused, right? How, how do you feel now your body's functional and you can, you can work out and do everything you want to do? Basically, yes, yeah, but sometimes, you know, I need to be careful with, with, with, with, with, with, weight, uh, loading or, or loading my neck with the weight, you know, so, going to doing dates, three dates, it's, it's very, very dangerous, you know, I need to be warm or do the first couple, or set with, with a band or so, you know, things like that. So, I, I work around my neck, so I, I try not to put a lot of pressure on the neck, but I, well, I do, you know, with, with a lot of training I do, I do a different style, but that's the only thing. But anything else, I train pretty, pretty good, I mean, without any issues, um, yeah, but, you know, the cows don't grow anymore, you know, but I like this, it's weak right now, I have. So, I, you know, I enjoy my training, and I enjoy it even more when I have like athletes training at my gym, I'll go or see in my brick brick yard, and I'll shoot it. So, that's that motivates me, so, and that makes me gonna stay on, on, yeah, on schedule. So, I don't train like six times a week or so, I train like three, four times, depends, you know, how many clients I did, the week or, you know, how tired I am. Yeah, and so on, basically just saying fit. So, you're, you're super, I've told you this before, every time I see a dentist, I tell you, it looked like a million bucks, because you're walking around like, you're walking around shredded. Yeah, he's always in reason. Right, yeah, yeah, you're always feeling like when you were doing this, yes, me like, oh, do you train and like, oh. What's that, I always get like, you're like, oh man, do you do you do you do you do you do it? Nothing anymore, you know. People have a hard time wrapping their brain around that, because you look so good that they think you must be in the peak of your working out, you know. What, what, what, what are some of the benefits? What are some of the pluses? Like, you know, I retired from competing, you know, years ago too. And you've got to try to find the positives and like, being lighter and all that stuff. So what are some of the things that you, that you like about, you know, how much do you weigh? You're like, two, fifteen, right? Oh, no, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm my own, wait. Two, twenty, five, what do you, I thought you said, you told me you're two, twenty or something. Oh, okay, okay. So what are some of the things now? Do you ever look back and think, man, I can't imagine being three hundred pounds again? Oh, look, um, first and foremost, they, they're well-being. So anything you do with, like, you know, just going somewhere and like, sweating, breathing, uh, sleeping, all different. Yeah, yeah, yeah, like, I can say like, hey, if I, I found myself, I'm a little too, I don't care, you know, back, back then, I would kill somebody. You know, because I was in rage, I was, I was hungry, you know, so things like this and, you know, from from the, um, healthy, uh, standpoint, um, like, no pressure on nothing. So I sleep well, I, I even tried to sleep on my stomach now, but still have issues with that because I have, like, a lot of break-ups from that, you know, kind of, put in my spine, like, you know, so because I'm not used to it, I always sleep on my back or on the side, but on the side is like, you know, having another three pills, around, you know, to kind of make it comfortable for you're not, uh, squeezing up your, you know, your, your, blood, uh, in your arm or whatever, you know, you guys know that you, you've been, you know, yeah, that's this too big, you know, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, like, you know, it's a nice, you know, you're always, uh, the positive to, um, yeah, um, basically healthy lifestyle, healthy lifestyle in, you know, I can go for hike without dying after that or, you know, actually doing what I like to do and what I could do back then, you know, yeah, more incorporating normal life in my schedule. What was the heaviest you ever got? What was the heaviest body weight? 315-320. So it's 140 and 3 kilograms. Yeah, it should be 15 someone. But you never really brought bad ones. Yeah. So I know it was really. Oh, lost your sound for a second there. Lost your sound for a second there we go. There we go. Oh, okay. That's cool. We'll make it work. So you know, I never had this belly or whatever or you know, was fat hanging around or something like that, never. But I was making sure how I get heaviest possible. It's heaviest possible when I was young. When I turned like 32 to the 3, then I knew I mean, there's no point to get heavier because you know, I was still you know, carrying a, you know, enormous amount of mass. And I was staying around 300 only times doing the off season because when I was starting doing like two seasons, you know, spring and fall, you know, then you have always short off season. So I didn't need to get too heavy. But I got to get back to my off season weight, like three in a pound. And then back, you know, to my on stage weight, I was always around 265 to 27. So a lot of people think I was always around to 80 or so. But as I looked like that, but no, heaviest I was was 275. And only once when I won when I, I was a class of title in the Euro. So because I was always doing something new. And I, I loaded that that crazy and then it worked pretty good. So I won that and I looked at it on one stage. So that was the heaviest one. But the lightest was always like around 265 to 28. Yeah. What were the training principles that you focused on? And to, you know, you got people, you know, on one end of the spectrum, you got like the Dorian style training. And then on the other end, you know, you got like the three hour workouts with lots of sets. What was your style, Dennis? My style was mostly high volume. So I, I love to get as much blood in a muscle as possible. When, when, when I finished last or an out of top 15 in 2009, I'm still in the beer. I, I changed everything. I, I was changed my lifestyle, you know, when I had prior. I stopped smoking and, you know, start training differently. So that was a year of training. I was doing Dorian's during the eight style because I had a pain. I was doing that with me. So that, that, that's why it worked, you know, because by yourself, you know, not getting to, to the limits, you know, with that style. So, and I did that. That work pretty, pretty good. But then, you know, I did work with the training anymore. And I went back to high volume. And, you know, almost my whole career was high volume. Of course, all of that, extra right, you know, going to Arizona training with Dennis with with crazy, you know, Dropsets and super sets, all of that. You know, I tried to make some changes. Sometimes, you know, just to bring something new to feel something different, you know, that's it. But mostly all of that was high volume. You mentioned that you quit smoking in 2009. So that's a smoking. So that's something that we always, real is Marcus too. Yeah. So I remember all of us watching Marcus rules video. And I like late, like late 90s or whatever. And he pulls out the mall borrows and he smoke in the mall borrows. And I remember going to the Olympia in over two. You know, you're actually a grocery store, and went out of the parking lot. Yes. Yeah. And I remember in 2002, I went to my first Olympia. And I was outside the hotel. And Marcus rule with Stan and out there and is massive jean jacket. That Dennis jacket that he used to wear. And he was Stan and outside smoking. And I remember just as a young bodybuilder, I was like, Oh, like, he's smoking cigarettes. And then my friend said, well, yeah, he's German. They all smoke. You can't be good. Yeah. You grow up like this and then you go into the sports. It's not man top to stop smoking. And invent out of control. Also, you know, it was kind of good that I decided to change everything in my life. I was ending up on smoking like one and a half packs a day. And even getting up in a night taking a dump. I was lighting up our cigarette, you know, middle night. Just, you know. That was scary for the band. And it's like, no, my man, that that that that that need to stop. You know. So, and then it took me like two to three weeks. And I had no, you know, kind of, I didn't miss that anymore. The first week was good because I was motivated. The second week was worst ever. I was like, oh, man, you know, and then yeah, it was good. I was so happy that I did that decision or I made this decision story. You know, yeah, crazy. People were, you know, even when I was like touring like Australia, you know, you need that, right? So you need a small, right? So in between you go somewhere. So nobody sees you and you start smoking the cigarette. You know, and then fans come by and on the old days, say, hey, hi, can I take a picture of you? You know, and then I felt like, man, that's not good. And then also you, you don't smell it, but people smell you. For sure. For smell that you, you know, you're smoke, you're you. You smell like, oh, that's right, you know. You yourself, you don't really want that, right? How do you feel about smoking now, like smokers? Because I know when I quit, I took an attitude of like, I got really, like I really started to hate the smell of smoke. And it just, I started almost having like an attitude towards people that still did smoke. I, I would say the first five to six years. Man, I, I, I cool. I cool, I have it around me. Yeah. Yeah. I, you know, not just because, oh, I, maybe it, it makes me weak or whatever. No, I was almost throwing up from from that smell. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But now I'm, I'm over it. I don't care, you know, people can smoke, you know, it doesn't bother me anymore. That, that much. But right after, you know, I mean, you probably, uh, remember that, uh, you, yeah, since as you get, and you stop, you have different, or more, more things like everything you, you, you kind of, yeah, feel like you're in a new world. So so many, new smell, something in your feelings, uh, yeah. So beginning, you know, being on non smoke I would extremely, uh, fascinating, I would say, say because you've been sporting for years and then you know feeling that it's unbelievable. What about I got one more question than that. What about dieting? Because I know nicotine is an appetite suppressant and if you're not eating it's like that's something you can still put in your system you can still smoke a cigarette. What about the next year when you started dieting and you didn't have that that crutch you know to to kind of keep you firm being dealing with the hunger if you remember. I don't really remember that but look I was glad not having that much hunger during the diet because if the body needs that it comes back. And so when I was starting the diet I never was you know having like huge appetite so I cool I couldn't finish my meals like the first two weeks. So then it comes back and you start like having this crazy appetite you know so but I was I was anyways glad you know not eating much so because during my diet my prep you know like the last six weeks I was going up to six meals a day so there was no time to to feel hunger you know so I was more or less kind of not or I was glad not not or no I thought it sorry guys I was like I was not feeling the hunger because you know I was like having like every two hours my meal so it was like not not a tasting meal so it's a dry last three or two meals for more carbs so if you eat like dried chicken without carbs or fish it's just annoying you know but you have to eat so that was no issue with with the hunger you know you're not a big you're not a big eater I heard like a year ago or so you're like eating like you at least a year ago you're like I'm eating like three meals a day now I'm glad I don't have to do all that anymore. Now I'm eating four meals okay you know who meals are with you know steak and fish and other two meals I just you know the pancakes or something else so I'm still kind of on a two basic normal meals you know so I get all my nutrients and then the other meals I kind of experiment you know whatever I like at that time or sometimes I like to do pancakes right after my work you know at 9 p.m. so that's you know depends you know so when I'm more you know free like you know I'm not going crazy or not not making myself crazy about missing a meal or not eating like a meal or something like that so it's it's it's all over it with all of that back in the days if you will give me something without meat except that's breakfast or the last meal no way I mean like I don't know why just carbs without meal without meat doesn't make any sense you know so because people you know normal people they don't understand what this protein would have fed what is carbs so they just eat some fatty meal there's no no no fat there's only fat in carbs but no protein you know so those fast are you know normal you know but for me every meal that they have to be a you know some type of protein chicken right chicken steak or fish so that was big then but now I don't really care you know I just take care of my protein and also I have also energy from my my workouts so also you know they did the carb intake is not that high too so let us just wouldn't get to energy yeah when you were when you were at your your biggest like say off season how much how much food were you taking in that was like you know a little bit dirty like how much pizza was Dennis Wolf eating how often would you go to a restaurant have a like a big feast you know in the off season and off season I'm saying every Sunday anyways I I can't do the same as in my prep so my prep was Sunday cheap days so I didn't do a meal so you cheap days so and you know basically yeah the whole Sunday and then maybe if we are out or so then of course I will eat something different but I'm a cleaner still I can't even eat something with sauce or you know so I'm sitting like in the restaurant and see people eating you know putting sauce like over the steak or something or you know it's like for me too much you know even now I could I could do that I could eat you know so my my meals are more dry than then you know like flooding that would go and get chabbing things like that you know right right I've got a bunch of questions here from fans I think dusty as if you too but we can alternate yeah I got I got one from actually my friend Todd who you should you probably remember he filmed you in 2012 for musculid development and he actually told me he told me a story that he came out to your house in Vegas at the time and he had his kids with him when he was there to film Dennis so they're filming and next you know Dennis is wife he's got the kids on the couch eating ice cream sandwiches while Dennis is in prep for the Olympia. Walk in TV while they're filming and then Todd's got an insane memory he actually texted me he's like that's when he had the Dodge Challenger 392 he me and I guess you drove him to the gym that day all in ass to a lost face athletic club he still tells me about that stuff and I've seen some pictures of the kids over there and it's it's cool to see I think a lot of people don't I mean we're kind of blessed to be on the inside but I don't think people realize that you can have you could be in prep for the Olympia be that locked in and and you had the ability to still have some fun and enjoy things outside of just prep like your cars and like I said I was just bored press that you had ice cream sandwiches in the house but that's apparently for some yeah greetings to you and to the family of course and look I always been like this because my life and my daughter been always eating whatever wanted you know around me and it's just you mindset if you want to do what you do I mean there's no there's nobody who can or who could distract me I was right you know I was right on I mean the whole theory there's not like any memory I have that I will say can you go away with the pizza or whatever so we will have a dinner I would have my meal and there would have like whatever sometimes with us sometimes something something even better with you know homemade which is you know some really fatty and slowly and all that I will never say anything because that's my problem my job my wish we do that right so and that's how I look on on my career because you know without you know my mentality I will never make it you know so to show her yeah but they I was that's who I remember that you know the family was in and my wife like given all the ice cream sandwiches yeah we were driving with that heavy I had a three years or so yeah right we were feeling like we thought yeah yeah great guy yeah when did you move to Vegas we moved to Vegas in 2010 so you know what yeah yeah what what's your favorite thing about Vegas and what do you tell your your friends and family back in Germany about you know what it's like to live in Vegas yeah there's so many TV shows you know streaming from Las Vegas with you Germany I think they know more well because they're not you probably thinking hang out on the strip yeah hey just one second I just remember that I was at the Arnold Expo and when Jan lady came up to me she was around in the American and she asked me honestly do people really live in Vegas you know I I'm like I didn't know what you say like yes that people here there are look many people think Las Vegas is just like a city for tourism you know and there's only a strip right so that's you go there just to celebrate a big party right but we are mega city we're almost a three million population so it's it's crazy but what a lot of above Vegas they have almost everything around they are on town so we have mountains they have a late I mean it's drying out right now but it's been drying out for years and nobody you know give it damn about it so and you can do things and doing the winter we have our ski resort another ski resort but ski um plates we can do that I mean every weekend you know it's almost snow at the mountains and the weekend is packed man so you know this is Vegas you will never think that's in you know in a desert so we have so much floors by here I mean two hours away is a how much like how much do like everything is is close so you know Las Vegas if you're in the United States you know doing during vacation Las Vegas is this place to be you know at least for a couple days just just check it out because you know not not not talking about straight I mean there's so many attractions and all of that but just to see how the city is built so you're mostly driving always around the city was you know straight through the city but you see the whole city while you drive so and this is for Europeans especially Germans you know great to see because you know I like to drive along long drives right like a couple of hours and here is more comfortable you know you see more you can you see the whole city driving like here but not in a east coast of course but in Germany it's all like you're on the Autobahn but you know it's you don't see much you're sometimes oh there's a castle right oh there's a castle but that's that's it right yeah but you can you like far far far away and that's what I like and also for the Germans it's like that's what they started talking about freedom you know big country you know so that's what makes like in overall I'm not just Vegas like America so interesting for the Germans and Europeans yeah the Vegas is you know like the whole city turned into our sports city or athletes city you know so we have so many athletes here it starts with MMA and all body bullets move here you know nobody's in LA anymore or Venice you know so it you know it happened a lot in the last like 12 years when it came here like I remember driving to the world gym like all highway or freeway were empty right now the same highways and freeways you know you're in the traffic you're standing on traffic you know or even boring but yeah in the evening so any imagine just 12 years what happened in Vegas so the Vegas is growing so fast it's insane it's insane I never seen see the like there's you know building out like that quick boom boom boom this is it's cool this is crazy do you do you if you go and do an NFL game yet well okay awesome there we go you got to you got a hockey player and a Canadian here so you're yeah well like that yeah I just saw maybe I thought maybe with the Raiders in town you know what's that that's cool that's cool just for fun I will I will go off to see again but I'm not a fan I don't understand that and it's like for me as an athlete like having so many breaks doing the game is not only for you you know and you call you want go what cool I mean you're stepping on on a clock you know so it's it's crazy that's why I don't like it you know if you're the game you're just play right so but it's like one move and then like five minutes or three minutes break so you cannot stay or you cannot keep your ankles everything warm so yeah the injury risk is high so but hockey is like man sport I love that you know there we go I love this I love it man I love that yeah but it's also been a while when I was you know when I went last time I think a year or so almost too but before that I went with my friend very very often because he got the tickets it's good prizes yeah yeah I love that yeah yeah in Vegas everything so every week and you see you know everything so it's it's a town to be you know yeah but what time yeah it's it's crazy right anyways I know you've got one yes I know you've got that awesome gym in your backyard you know you hooked up with you hooked up with Jim 80 right and they they they hooked you up in the backyard there that's so cool how often yeah Jim 80s I remember going to Europe for the first time and seeing all like the old Jim 80s stuff from the 80s in some of the gyms and thinking oh this stuff super heavy duty like this is really good equipment and then now they've got all the new stuff up yeah so how often do you train in your backyard versus maybe going to like a gym to work out I have been in a gym for months really basically it's like got my equipment from Jim 80 and we are you know put it all together in my backyard I only went to the gym when I was too windy outside to cold like during the winter couple times and now when it's too hot so basically I train either in the morning outside that's the perfect perfect time from 5 to 9 it's just great or after 7 p.m but you know if you get a lot then we go to the gym of course yeah because you know it's it's just you also you you want to enjoy your workout but not and I have man it's too hot so you don't want to do it right so yeah I'm making sure that it's enjoyable also for me and my train sport who who's your favorite active bodybuilder currently you know one of the top guys who do you really think is awesome or just favorite personality too I mean most of them are my buddies but yeah I mean I'll say of course bornek William is a great guy you know I still support him because I remember when I got hurt and cool completely just 2016 all over here came and run me they yeah they they you know send me some love during the press conference and yeah William Rami I mean there's so many but those two guys are of course in my heart and my other favorite bodybuilder which physique I like and who you know cool have done more damage of course like in the last couple of Olympias it's hard to do but it's impressive yeah yeah so yeah the rest man the younger guys like even for here can any guys you know um at one just want to show yeah has the suit yeah come back King yes yeah for him you know he went to yeah yeah but hey he didn't by himself you know he pushed himself through it you know went to you know he needed to do couple things and yeah now you see the the goal is as rich you know he is at you know at his you want to show I mean that was his goal so it's I'm just glad and happy to for him absolutely I remember he was competing uh man at the Arnold's amateur like in 2012 and you know so yeah he's been around it's been around for a long time yeah that that's why it makes me happy to see him winning show yeah I remember it was maybe a couple of years ago it was at the Olympia and it was at the the Meet the Olympians and I saw you walking around you know great shape obviously downsize at this point and I I looked at you and I distinctively had this moment of feeling old because I was like I feel like just last year it was just last year wasn't it that he was the guy that everybody was coming here to meet and now you're like you're a downsize you're walking around you're doing your thing you're still really plugged in with the sport but it made me feel like like things move so fast in bodybuilding and and and I had been curious it's a question I was actually thinking of even back then what do you think about this just like you know I know Ron asked like who are your favorite guys but just bodybuilding as a sport in general today compared to what feels like yesterday but apparently was a long time ago now you know five years ago well hey I agree totally the time flies and you know like what is a year right a year goes so fast yeah so well it's it changed bodybuilding has changed a lot that we'll okay and agree on that right so like big shows now yeah we have more shows we have more pros you know like every second guy on on Instagram and and lady of girl pro's too so yeah I mean this sport has grown like huge huge numbers on on on members and competitors I mean all of that new classes you know which started like 10 years ago they're doing better than bodybuilding right now so from from the like social media or you know being famous that's 10 but we definitely need to do something to to yeah to fix that to bring more more interest in people to yeah to to bodybuilding right I mean we probably had nothing to compare back in the days but today if if a guy is young and building out his physique you know and his frame and he looks amazing and he's competing as a classic physique athlete right so why should he go further right yeah that he's right now so why should I you know why should I get bigger and you know look maybe for normal people just you know in order to make money or in order to get girls whatever I mean whatever you may think to you know to get into this line and and invest more time you know because it's all time so if you're ready build out your physique you look great you're winning shows you don't pay me a big pro classic physique so it might happen over the years like in in 10 years because your body is you growing you're improving and you know developing you kind of went over it and then you make this decision you know do I need more or can I get heavier but it you know it's time so it's not like back in the days there was a goal open bodybuilding you're heavy you know so that that's where you go so and then you're go from there but today it's a whole different story that's you know like I said it's it's a more comfortable it's less time spent or invested in the sport way already can compete you know so when I won when I won a world championship world title right I was looking like classic physique right now so look and then from then I went up like very pounds or 40 pounds up you know and then I was competing up you know as a professional so those those things are just you know two different things I would say you know like like I said if you young it's it's a different mindset and you know you know young people who are now competing as a pro so they're making more money or they have their opportunities to make more money to sell to sell their product that's they're physique right sure yeah all different it changed a big time back then you know if you were successful but already successful right so you invested already like 10 15 years of your life then you get maybe are you know great contracts you know and yeah that's it right so then you can I live from that and you know doing your appearances doing your things but now it's just they wake up in the morning they are already selling everything you know and that's that's why probably that's that's gonna be very very difficult to yeah bring that back you know how it was you know and we can body real and back that so more people want it to be body business it's not happening right now it's crazy how fast that changed I will say I feel like as a fan of what I will call like the true body building like that is to me it's it's people who are willing to push their physique to see what am I capable of and there's no question man you were one of those people that did that and I think you you know you inspired a lot of people to do that I'm sure that there will always be people that that's what they want you know that's what they want to see but it's you know human human being is you know made like that you know if it's easy or go for it you know as first you know so and why should like push myself when you know like and I'm not a big wrist too you know going to the open past from like a set if you're already having a great physique yeah so that's a it's a great like destroying your physique or not being that successful as you are right now already or or you're trying to get successful or building out your success right so it's big big then you know there was no question about anything like that so my job was just push it through you know so your job is to gain weight to build muscle and bring the package on stage and show various people the improvements so and how you need it right through the whole whole career and then through that right so if you bring up so if you bring up very condition like with the great improvements so then it starts you know then that's how we make money back then you know all the guest appearances you know so many many guys reaching out to you or or for motors you know and you would be like every week on the road guess posing you know so and if you were you know not looking good that was over you know so I mean you you probably get the couple or book but not every week you know so okay that's almost like two different yeah like not not just I don't know how to say it's like almost two different worlds yeah I don't think such a short time bring it back or or do something that it changes but it goes the way it goes yeah you know yeah that's cool yeah I got a list of lightning round questions for you here Dennis we appreciate your time you've given us over an hour and I just I'm gonna I'm just gonna say these words and you just give me your initial reaction your first thought off your mind okay okay your favorite gym you ever trained at whoa that's a tough one tough it's tough I can I can name maybe five to ten you know I would say legs feet vital this is a gym in a hometown like almost hometown it's very good I was not training there as our active professional so but right now we'll say yeah that that one of the right is jumaia I beat you okay Ronnie Coleman I'm believable and I'm beautiful that's decent there you go unbelievable and barbell squats barbell squats love them love them not doing them anymore but look you had what do you think gave you I know everyone says how the hell did Dennis get those that quad sweep you think that was just how your body is or do you think that you trained correctly for it I think um the the the squats like training legs and we squats was the main I may think in my my whole leg workout so as example I will do like five sets five working sets maybe just four blades each side you know I will never go higher so maybe five for the video you know when they knew what they were like maybe six sometimes but four was my like working weight and I will do like five sets and I could probably stop training because I couldn't walk after that so the muscle was full with blood so in the rest like you know other two three exercise I would just do because I would say yeah I mean I don't feel really good but there's always still a little bit extra you can get you know yeah yeah but main main exercise was yeah squat I knew you left your squats favorite car right now or from all ever favorite car you ever owned let's say that I can say that I you know I had so many cars and also now you will say pick one I do I will say I don't know I just want to wrap the right now I don't want to drive any car right now I'm out of the four director yeah nice favorite music to train too and one one one I think I used to have our C63S yeah I would recommend that if you like fast small and you know you can use daily cars C63S beast okay okay and if you're if you have a good build frame you're sitting you know you fit the mistake and you know nothing can move your out of it so it's it's it's fun car yeah so if you're looking for something like that you know yeah I would recommend okay okay very music listen yeah favorite music to train too yeah back in the day on your guard hard making a day big in a day look I was training with my training partner most most of the time we didn't listen to any music no kidding you know really yeah we were you know always some some music playing but we were yeah just talking a little bit and that's it so yeah right now metal metal Germans always love the metal every German I've ever met loves the metal you could train you need something else you know you need to be like yeah you know boot dusty you got any more fiddennist those are the main the the main curiosity I guess the the only thing I wanted to add that a few people asked was maybe one or two of your greatest memories from bodybuilding that were not the stage like something that happened in life or on a trip but some sort of a memory you have the the bodybuilding brought you the bodybuilding brought me and I met a ton of people good people too yes yeah good people too and yeah and I'll say the relationships with with a lot of people from you know from from all my experience my god when it was yeah yes appeared already man oh yeah we're appearing a bit of grids or like the seminars but I'll say all of that was was fun but going to like extremely beautiful cities like Saint Petersburg you know you know people taking me on the tour or I was invited once in Saint Petersburg into a to a Ben weeder school Ben we were Ben weeder bodybuilding school or school bodybuilding yes Ben no American probably that a war war this yeah and that was a that was a last seminar for for for trainers who got the diploma you know okay I was a good thing so and with that diploma you could I was working in any gym in Russia you know so I was honored it was like one day seminar and one day training seminar so and after that I had to sign the diploma and we went on the on the on the on the channels you know in Saint Petersburg many channels and yeah so yeah like a lot of worries like it was made after Venice in Italy so you know that was kind of be like that going to adopt that in the you know and we went on the on the ship with all of the the group the president of the Russian Federation like a lot of pros you remember Alex Alexander Fedorov or Fedorov yeah was a huge yeah yes he was a board and yeah we were celebrating like half a day you know that was that was beautiful like things like this that's where I say man so many things I would never probably see or experience without being bodybuilder or professional bodybuilder and yeah I'm I'm really thankful to you know having all of this experiences and yeah living my life and and many so many good people also bad people but you know good people right kind of bad people though very people you know you know really really yeah some some sometimes were really adventurous too you know so but between I can say that in between when I think yeah after 2013 no after 2012 off season no in season after the the shows I went to Central America and I lost already like 20 pounds because I would off you know and people were still you know like what the hell is this guy doing here you know just not a people walking you know between the pyramids and all that so and that's where I had amazing time to and people kind of figure out who I was and they were waiting for me you know when I came you know you know you were a huge group right so I was the last guy who came all of them came from Europe to Mexico and I came from Las Vegas so they were waiting for me like and then I walked in and like you you you you saw they they they they they look like oh my god and I you know like you do bodybuilding and you're out you know you're clean you know you're off you're lost like 20 pounds you're like you look like tiny yeah yeah so I got to meet like professors doctors you know people like that so and all this conversation every evening we had like conversation with you know different with different people and teams and that's also experience what I will never forget you know that brought me a lot thinking you know and yeah it's just exciting and also like learning people's history too so I met a guy in Guantanamo no I know my god what I went to Guantanamo I was Guatemala you're in Guantanamo here in trouble Guantanamo was a German guy he was living there for 30 years like over here and he was asking me questions you know about bodybuilding and then I was asking him like you know what what he is doing him why he came here and that was a crazy crazy story you know but yeah anyways that was so interesting and that's why you know I would say because I'm bodybuilding I I was in many countries I came around you know so and like I said big countries made so many people and yeah yeah but hey I still want you to see some some other countries like Thailand and I'm a big Thailand and Africa I know what you're asking so well Dennis I'd love to see again here in Vancouver hopefully you have another awesome athlete do the van pro one of these days maybe next period we back it was great to have you at our gym you know the time when we trained into gym and the hopefully gym is really good oh yeah yeah yeah look for it to have any back Dennis thank you sir remember everybody remember everybody like share subscribe comment and bring the bell there you go thank you very much Dennis Wolf we appreciate you being on it's just bodybuilding you're very generous with your time sir thank you gentlemen and I that was blessed yeah I'm glad I came on and thank you everyone for having me yeah just yeah another great podcast I did a couple podcasts making a couple weeks but yeah amazing thank you guys yeah yeah I'm glad we have fun Dennis okay thanks Dennis take care and Vegas bodyguard yeah but you'll find several yeah yeah does

What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear. I'm Scott McDaley. Of course, I'm here with Skip Hill and your berry and we are joined today by Nate Spear. All of our programming is brought to you by Truentutrition.com. You can use our code think for additional savings. High quality third party test and supplements. Hit me up if you have any questions about any of their flavors and any of the things that they carry. We're also brought to you by SupplementSource.ca for those of you in Canada. I saw a carboline for like 30 bucks off. So if you need to get some supplements, you get a great deal over there plus. They support us and by supporting them, you are supporting the shows. If you're in the UK, check out Strom Sports Nutrition. They've got a great line of health supplements. Everything from single products like NAC or Tudka and they have some really nice blends too. Guys, we've got a bunch of stuff going on today. Nate Spear, welcome back to the show. So long overdue. Nate's looking huge today. Nate was cracking like a dozen jokes before we got started. Now watch you just like stops. He just claims up from here. Rose and skip. Funny too. All right, we got a bunch of stuff though. And like I said, we're just going to go to our list of questions. If you guys want to take part in the next show, then definitely comment. We'd love to have your questions for the next episode. I've got all your questions from the previous show. We were going to start out though with we do like the client spot lights. And I wanted to basically, I wanted to hang out with you guys and show you a set that my client hams it the other day. Sometimes you have a client that sends you an exercise. And they're not necessarily sending it to say like, hey, how's my form? They're just like, hey, do check this shit out. If you watch it and you're like, wow, that's really impressive. And you also think to yourself, like, please be very careful. You know what I mean? And this is one of those moments for me. So let me just get this up here. So he's like, two 15, two 14 right now. I think he said this is the most reps he got with this weight. It's really. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh, I'm still going. That's what I said. Yeah, I'm not sure. Well he has to as wise to him he's a bitch if he stops. I can see why you're worried stuff. Yeah, yeah. I can hear, I can hear people that, you know, ripping apart his form here on the last couple of reps and I got to tell you before you do it, before anybody says a fucking word about it, get under big, big weight and tell me that you're going to keep a squat form meticulous from the first trip. Now you want to keep it as tight as possible. It's no question. Yeah, but you're going to lose something if you're going to a place like he just went to with a weight and deep into a set with that many repetitions as far as fatigue is concerned. I thought it was pretty tight there at the end. It was starting to get a little, but that's not taking anything away. That's fucking bust in your balls when taking a set. The. Wouldn't you say the benefit though to his whole body? Yeah. The, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the Stimulus he put on his whole body there is going to lead to growth. Like, was it a squat exercise or were going to perfect quads, quite, absolutely not, but just like the intensity that he, he piled up for that set. Yeah, he started to move a little bit to his back a little bit to his hips, but the overall was that five and half plates. Yeah. I think. Yeah. I mean, 58 fibers. That's crazy. For 21, 214 pounds. 214 pounds. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, the overall, the overall effect he's going to get from that if he continues, you know, progressing from there, I think is going to be amazing. What would you guys think about his merrient? I'll still. Yeah. He was. Yeah. What would you guys think of him not progressing from there is in not going heavier, but just continuing to try to get better with that. Because I, that's what scares me. Right. Was, was seeing like man, it is scary when you start to see someone like lean forward a little bit. I'm like, oh, I know myself and I know what, I know what's taken me out. And I, I've never put it five and half plates on my back once. But I know what heavy weight feels like for me. And I can tell you that it scares me. You know, I've got to be. How old is he? Scott. He's in his early 30s. Oh, shit. That's actually not bad. I was like solid. Yeah. I was watching. I was like, my back would be fried. My back would be fucked up. I think your point though. Your point though about, okay, now let's work on clean them up or maybe get an extra rep before jumping to the 35 and then another 45 that kind of thing. I think that's a good, that's good advice for him Scott for sure. Yeah, it's funny. We talked in the phone last night and his, we're, you know, doing this offseason push. But in the past, last year, we pushed him up heavier and he was up in the 220s. And then, you know, we had to, we had to work to get that down. And he's a guy who, he doesn't like dieting for a long time. And it's just who he is. He wants those diets to be shorter where I have no problem doing like a 22 week diet at 26, six week diet, whatever it takes. Yeah. I'm just in it, you know, but for him, I think that he'll be better off if we can keep him tighter. So we're not getting as heavy. But he's stronger than he was last year at, at in the 220s. So yeah. I won't. I will say so. And not to like critique him or everything, but you were trying to like maybe improve that. Yeah. I would say keep in constant tension and not locking out every rep to the survival and purposes. I just sort of getting better at those. I feel like you can do the same way, but there's clean them off. You know what I mean? It was in 10 was that. I'm with you 100%. And that's what I would think. I feel like, it was kind of like what we were talking about a couple episodes ago, Andrew, and we were talking specifically. I think about, it might have been about squats talking about that fear, like the fear of getting under really intense weight. I can't remember exactly where that went. I remember what it was. A guy who said that when you get to progressive overload weights that are so heavy, they scare you. I remember that conversation. And that's what you were supposed to. Yeah. And I was talking about how like the, I guess the intense thought about it starts like the night before the last like day for me, at least, you know, like I'd go to bed thinking like, all right. So I did five plates in a 35 last time for eight. I got to get nine this time. Or, you know, I got to do five plates at 35 and a five on each side. You know, and get the same reps. And just that you're thinking about, you think about, you're, while you're making breakfast, you think about it throughout the day, while you're eating other meals while you're warming up. And it's like, and I do think like, to Nate's point to about the continuous tension, I think there's absolutely something to be said about the set that Hans did. And then let's say he does a back offset with like four and a half plates and he gets 12 to 15 reps of just continuous tension up and down. Kind of like, yeah, I mean, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, the way Dante is to explain like, you know, you've got your heavy sets, your, your, your, your max sets, and then you had your widow makers. So like if you followed up with a widow maker that was more like a constant tension set, like, like he'll be doing a clean, clean. You know, this, yeah, that's what I mean, clean it up on that. Or like Scott had a good point down here, Scott's even said, pull off those 25s and keep the reps continuous and choose for a set of 10 to 12, which I could absolutely see him doing there. Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, and that was also too. Good. I was just going to say your point about that squats, I would agree. There's no other feeling than like putting something that's like 500 pounds plus on your back than any other work. You know what I mean? I'm just saying. Well, and that's it. That's why I was question you guys with the, um, with the anxiety and stuff the night before talking about the anxiety part to the, like, we're about the question really is, or the question of my mind is, are is it an anxiety based on the fact that we might fail and not get it? Or is it the anxiety that in an exercise like a squat? There's a lot of damage that can be done if you don't come out of the whole versus a hack squat. Of course. A bench. Scariest. In a deadlift. Okay. You can drive. Yeah. That's why I'm saying. And I think this is this cuts to just I brought this up on those training clients one on a one at tight for a couple years. People don't want to go anywhere near as far with an exercise like a squat. Essentially for fear of it's like your mind perceives it as just being crushed. Like, like, if I don't get it, if I don't get a bench press or curl, I put the weight down and I laugh about it. Okay, not a big deal. You know, your typical person who trains in the gym. But when it's a squat, yeah, I think sits on your brain. Like this can crush shit. Like this can fuck me up and I can not get out from underneath this. And I could be a viral video on gym fucker. And it's a nice truth. But here. Yeah. No shit. You just got a bunch of one lives today. That's that. But then using that anxiety and using that fear to motivate. I mean, how many times have we all been in the hole? And you know, you start to come out and you go, oh, shit. And then you have to go to this next place to be able to move that shit. Slow as fuck to be able to get that otherwise you're not coming out. Yeah. I'll add that maybe the fear is that you do get it and that you're like, fuck, next time I'm gonna have to go ahead. Oh, I'm not even kidding. I'm not even kidding because when you're just like so in line with like progression, progression, progression. And I think we're talking about the heart, we can all agree. This is probably the hardest exercise, right? Maybe you can argue dead lifts. But in my mind, it's, it's. It's like the hardest. I think squat. Yeah, right? And we, I think we all know, at least we're all kind of at that point now. Like we're not ever gonna beat our max squat that we did 10 years ago or five years. But whenever it was when everything was healthier, right? Maybe Nate will. He's still pretty healthy. He has a kid in his injury. But you can probably. Not like what? You know what I mean? Like so until you get to that wall where you're like, okay, I'm not gonna, I'm not gonna cross over that threshold of the unknown. Oh, wow, I could actually paralyze myself or have a catastrophic injury. Like until you get to that point, there's always just that fear in the back of your mind. It's not just fear, it's also anxiety of like, I want to do this. Like I want to breach my personal best. I want to, like this is the mother of all exercises, you know? Yeah. And I just wanted to circle back around and it was really to Nate's original point and to what we had talked about before, the conversation about when progressive overload weights get scary. You know, our ultimate suggestion was to find ways to make the weight you're using harder. And as Nate said, I think that that would be one great way would be to, you know, get constant reps in there. I think that, you know, anything, I mean, pre-fetigging or all sorts of methods could allow you to not, I don't want him to get hurt. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Yeah, she is. He's thinking he's going to like, does he feel like, oh shit. No, or is he just like, I'm moving weight like shit. It's going really well. No, that's just who he is. That's just who he is. He is great and things are going. I don't know. It's a tough one. I know what you're saying. He's like, I'm like, clients are doing, I'm sure, two, or they go too low in rap. So they got to see what kind of number they can get on in client deal with presence. And I don't like that because it doesn't do you any good outside of the physical sat or the mental satisfaction of it. And, you know, if he's feeling good and he's pushing and everything is, man, I don't know. So I'm not terribly frequent at that load in that level if he, if he's a real person. He sounds like he's a real low. And after that, it'll be dead lifts and after that it'll be bent. So he popped a few fibers in his pack back in spring, pressing. I think he was pressing the 150s. He was doing a video with Jeff Saigo and it was post-contest. He was still not really loaded back up. And he said he felt some, you know, I felt some, what he says, like, I thought it was going to be my right pack because he was feeling like the spasm and they did like one rap and it felt like a little tight and he's like just kept going boom, you know. So he is at a point where I think that getting smart. I mean, like how many people in the world? Like he's a guy who's, he's been natural for a really long time. I mean, I shouldn't get into all that. But, you know, he's a guy though who, he has some really good, just genetic gifts for being strong. And I think it is time to really start getting smarter with it. So he can continue doing it for a long time, you know. That's what you're saying. If he was a toldon, if he was 20, I think he was going. I'm like, keep going. Sorry, keep going. She's like, for a little while, you know, until you get that. But he's 32. He's got the rest of his career and then the rest of his life after body building that he probably has already started to think about a little bit. I see what you're saying Scott. And I think that's good advice. Well, I think in that said, he can still do five and a half plates. That's not telling him not to. You know what I mean? Yeah, it's just to get more out of it, you know. Yeah. For the ones saying I think the problem is like, he's like shifting his hips. Have you told him to like try to fix that? I think we talked about this very part. Is he? Because you see where I'm saying where he goes down. He goes to lower back. Yes. Yeah. Sort of like, I was like that. So that's where it's like if he, you know, if he can clean that up. You're going to be able to bit tighter, you know, not compensate when you get weaker, you know, which it might even be just a matter of like Scott was saying take the 25s off. And you know, and at the same time like you were initially saying Andrew, being able to, you know, just be, or I, you said it skip just being able to handle that. Sometimes it isn't necessarily going to, going to look pretty. I'd love to see a back off set though, you know. But I didn't even pull off. I mean, if dude, if you can pull off one and a half plates from that, you're still squatting for plates. And if you could do a widow maker like that, that would be an ugly set. That would just be nasty, you know. So I mean, he's probably at that point with his strength levels where he's just going up and plates like right, he goes in a warm up of one plate, warm up of two plates, warm up of three plates. Yeah. He starts, think calling it maybe a set of four plates, then he probably goes up to five. And then he does his five in a quarter. Like honestly, I missed that. Like just being able to go up and plates on this car like, the shit was fun. You know, like your not bothering quarters are for postseason. Yeah. Yeah. All right. I thought you guys would have some fun watching that set because it was brutal. That was intense. I'm actually fired up. Yeah. Like maybe I could just want again. Maybe I could. Yeah. Maybe I need you to have some great squat sessions back when he first started getting into bodybuilding again. It's like, it's really, and this is what we do to do leg press first. We'd always start off with ham curls and we'd either go leg press or squats or the other way around and then sometimes a hacksaw. We do some fun crazy shit. What do you squat nowadays? All right, excuse me, Nate. On seven squats, like a year and a half. Go. Okay. So I know you were big on hacks a while ago. Are you still into hacksquats? And what's your main jam? So literally I'm pendulum and like press the two money makers right now. They're into the pendulum. And then yeah, I'm really digging that right now. It's brutal. And honestly, what I like about it is it shortens my volume because you get right to the point, right? So like I don't need one warm-up fucking set on a pendulum. So then I'm literally done my working set in 10 minutes. My whole set there. You know what I mean? 50 minutes. That's nice because now I'm saving time during my whole workout. You know what I mean? So I look at output to. So sometimes you know, that's why deadless sometimes I'm not a huge fan of them because there's so much of an output through your whole workout. So now you're consuming all that energy towards one lift. So you know what I'm saying? I'm minimizing my energy essentially. Right now. Makes sense. All right. Well I had to do that. And I think the bigger you get, recovery is more important. I was like I've gotten more muscular. Honestly, like the more and the where I need to recover, like the more I've grown. You know, I think I'm like really in tune right now with like one to like take time off. You know, one to push it as far as training goes. So. All right. Well, listen, let's get to some questions. We had a bunch of training questions actually. So I feel like we're pretty much going to segue right into that from what we are already talking about. This is kind of a long one. But let's see. He says he's been failing. Let's see. I have been failing. Barbosaquads do two lower back and not my quads slash glutes. I used to squat a plate aside more. And I firmly believe that my legs can handle more load as my lower leg lifts have in as all of my other leg lifts have increased. I have tried a few things such as prefatting my quads, reducing lower back loading on my back day and focusing on improving core strength. None of which has made a noticeable difference. I would take Barbel squads out of the rotation, but I am extremely limited on equipment and excuse me, and a two month break from squads also hasn't helped. And he mentioned he knows that in my issue, I had low back issues due to weaker glutes. And he doesn't think that that's a problem for him. He's got good strength and development to the glutes. He says I should also add that I don't really feel any lower back pain. The other issue is reaching failure as a result of my lower back. One more thing I'll add. I recently watched a John Meadows video on stretching where he said that stretching his pair of formus helped him. I have been doing these stretches for a few days and haven't noticed a difference yet. I would look at his hips. Does he say he didn't have back pain? He said no, he didn't have back pain or back issues, but I think he was saying that his lower back is what fatigued before his legs did. So then maybe he's putting too much of the lift onto his lower back. Is that how we're interpreting that? I guess if we'd great if he did a video. Yeah. If we had a video, him doing my career. He's one of what's the exercise sequence of his leg day. That'll indicate what he's doing to maybe get a back player up as he's starting with squats, is he doing something else before that like a hamstring curl or whatever. Then on two like, on people forget front squats are great and they don't involve your lower back as much. So he's limited on equipment. I think he should try front squatting. It sounds like it might be a little bit better on his back. I'll piggyback off that now. Say what's he doing for back on the other days? Is he doing a lot of barba rows? Yeah. He's doing a lot of RDLs. He did mention doing. He said he reduced lower back loading exercises on his back day. So assuming that means he took that stuff out. But that's the first thing I thought too. Yeah, because it's got to potentially over-trained lower back or just there's just a lot of stabilization going on there. Even if he's training back the day before, I mean, you could be doing barba rows and you know, seated pulley rows is two of your exercises. And if he is only pulled back on the stabilization exercises for back in the last few weeks, he may have been in such a like a fatigue state borderline over train state for his directors. Does this stand? Let me ask you guys, I want to get, I said this the other day because there's something that I had known for years and years and years. But I, someone said that it wasn't true. So I'm asking you guys, I remember the directors being very, very slow. One of the slowest muscles in the body for recovery. Do you guys see that or is that just something that has been? I think it's individual. Honestly, I mean, I never do it that. Right? Yeah, I don't really get for it. Would they read? No. Okay. I had years ago. And now, you know, when you're around long enough that you hear something say 20, 25 years ago, you have to come back to it and go, hmm. We got to check again to make sure it's true or see if it was just something that was accepted by the masses at that time. Anyway, the reason I thought that and asked that is because the way that I was understood is when you get into your directors and your lower back and you are overtrained, that's why a lot of, I mean, obviously the output physically for exercises like Barbados and deadlifts and radios is so much higher because so many more muscles are involved. I get that too. But that the directors are slower to recover versus most other muscle. Kind of traps. You know, traps are what? The eye, because I've heard the same thing. And I have always felt that that was kind of the case too. And it has versus other muscles that tend to recover quicker calves, abs, things like that. So anyway, I don't have just to let it out with, with like the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the the muscle fibers. Yeah, that's yeah. Yeah, that's the cool. I see you, I have to go. Was that to Scott's comment about the directions? Yeah. Smart, smart is kind of ruining you. He's always going to make a motor joke. Yeah. But um, either like the plenation of the, of the muscle fibers or maybe the distribution of type one type two fibers in that tissue. I don't know enough to say one way or the other, but that might be where I would look to try to confirm or dispelled that personally. Right. But the only thing I was going to say is that maybe, maybe, maybe use the stomach on a sluts. Yeah, you ever know the, you guys ever use the so, uh, so right device? I have not, but it looks fucking amazing. And that's what Andrew Nolan he said. He mentioned that he thought maybe doing some sort of rehab work on that. And he says maybe from MI 40 would have some videos on this. That would be Matt Krusman. Yeah. I do work with him when I'm down there in Tampa. He's helped me a lot of big time with some stuff. Okay. And, uh, but I was thinking maybe like he needs to do something to release as so as that might be kind of tight. So if you get, if you look up so right dot com, it's like this blue device that looks like this and you play on it. And you could put other tissues on it, but they have a whole bunch of videos on their on their website. Now I will say it's like an 80 dollar piece. But if you go on Amazon, you can get a knockoff for like 15 bucks. I really commend doing that. Okay. Yeah. They have the same exact things, same exact material, everything. So, but yeah, I think maybe doing something with as so as and maybe is hip flexors. Because I found my hip flexors were always tight. And that was causing my back to meet at least start feeling any backloading exercises. Well, before I should. So I started doing the 90 90 stretch. I started really fomorling the hip flexors. I even got on the um, abductor. And I would do like really light sets just to pump them up and then release them. I found that really helpful along with that so as, or so right device that was talking about. And that might be where he want to start. Hmm. I was looking it up on Amazon to see if I could find it real quick. Did you type in so right? No, I did not. I'll keep looking though. I'll try to run a podcast for right now though, I guess. I got to submit a question here. I'll bring that up. But I'm going to keep looking for it. Up next. What have we got here? If you've seen it, Andrew, if you're looking right now, send me a link to it. Question for the next episode. If you had a long break from training, how do you ease back into it without having crippling dimes for the next couple sessions? Les volume, less weight, both more PEDs or all three. Less training, less volume and more drugs. When you guys read something like that, like Nate, do you read it as dimes? Do you read it as DOM? Do you read it as DOM? DOM? I read it as dimes. I read it as dimes. I just get so much of a book. Yeah. Do you read it as dimes? DOM, that's okay. What about you Andrew? I've done both. Both. The Pencil Moodyman. What is that say about a person's give? I don't know. It doesn't say anything really. I read it as DOM, and I didn't know if I was the only fucking one. Sabin screwing up words and satiety. That's just it's stuck now in line. I was actually going to start trying to get a vocabulary word. I forgot to do this and start sneaking them into our conversations here and see if you picked up on it. That's a great word, Andrew. It actually means. First thing I told you forgot. Yeah, first thing I was going to use is slightly wrong and just see if you noticed. But I totally forgot to write a word of the day. You know what? They might have taken a gumscott. Okay. You know what I see one for 29 bucks now? That's what I'm seeing here. Oh, you know what I'm saying? Here's the answer to that question though. While you guys are doing that, I'll answer the question. There's nobody ever breaks in easy. Give me a fucking break. We all go back in. Maybe a little easier. But no one is stepping in it like a two and then a four. Now we're going to like a seven and then in two week we'll be laughing and complaining about how sore we are. But then in like two weeks we're back to attend. So I mean, come on. Should you break in? Yeah, of course you should break in. Oh, we don't. Yeah. And that's who does that? Yeah, I think just ripped the band it off and feel it man. Yeah, yeah, that's someone I found answer 29. 20 minutes. I'm not order that tonight. I'm with you, man. I'm talking about a dog. I'm talking about the dogs. Like just go in like feel it. I was just talking about a webtoe. That's why I was talking about the kidneys. I mean, the truth is, you know, laugh about it and everything else. But if you do jump in for a couple of weeks and you haven't been trying for a while, and you do go ball's out, you can't end up in that. Yeah, that's a little. Not kidding. That's not something joke about it, yes. But it does. Here's what I see. Here's what I see. Here's what I see. Here's what I see. Okay, yes. You could you could you could get by a car too. But I'm saying, I what I see with Rabdo is like bodybuilders and prep that have been on high gear for 20 weeks or 25 weeks and they're training six days a week and they're doing double cardio sessions and then one day they wake up and they're urine's a weird color and they can't move their legs or whatever. We send them to the hospital and they're creating kinases through the roof. That's when I usually see Rabdo. I don't see because like I don't go in the front of a lot of. I've heard of it going from Mike Davies had a client. He said that she wasn't training at home. She was supposed to be training. She was slacking, slacking, slacking and he was doing these cheerleader camps. And then she came into the camp and she was out of shape like he hadn't seen her for a few months. They had that a break and she came back to camp and he was like, you know, what happened to you kind of thing but didn't really say too much. And after the first day she got Rabdo. I've heard of that in other cases of people who are like highly untrained and then they go in and try to, you know, do a Mike Davies cheerleader camp. That's right. I have a question in what's that shit. You know, I'm talking about the, what's the weekend warrior crap? See, this is where my brain gets so mad. Crossfit stuff. Yes, cross, that's why because they don't train for a week and then they go in on the weekend and they get their ass kicked in and up in the hospital with Rabdo. Yeah, Monday or Tuesday. From hitting two workouts that are balls out on the weekend, like they think they can, they can handle it. There's a lot of Rabdo in Crossfit. Why could not come up with Crossfit? God damn. We got to get you back on the approaches. You've, you've programmed yourself not to use that word like the girl Crossfit. I think it's skipped off the neck of the word. You can't use it in, uh, it's just a little bit of change. You're not there on that. I'm going to, can I, can I get like, do they do Rabdo or anything? Can I do like an Uber eats thing? Get some nicotine pouches and discuss house right now? We need to get on the patch back up. We think you could. If you can order escorts, you should probably get in the back of your head. You can vouch just, just say it. Especially in Florida, right? Well, very, very urban. So I'm sure that I could get, if you can get alcohol, I can get alcohol. Not that I drink, but I know because, you know, my wife has before. All right. Before seven. Yeah. Well, no, she, I give her this for two months. She, today's the seven, two months and two days. She hasn't had a drink. Nice. You guys still together? It's nice. But sometimes it's like just fucking drink. But anyway, all right. We got a good one here. Another training question is vertical polling, necessary for overall back development or our, our, our row variations enough. I don't know. I mean, you're talking to a poor guy right here. So, I mean, I think it's a good answer. It's like, I don't know. I've never not pulled down. Yeah. But I've never pulled down. It's a major, right exactly. But it does make me think. I mean, when the question is, I was thinking, uh, outside of, downward, you know, the, the, the, scapula coming down for the, for the, for the lats themselves, you could probably get by with a lot. Tell you what I'd rather do versions of rows than just lap pull down. I'll leave it at that. Agreed. But I don't know how to answer. I mean, it's something that I haven't really thought about before. That's why when you answered it that way, I thought, Well, does anyone do straight pull down, is anyone anymore? What do you mean by straight pull downs? I mean, I, what I see. I do. And it used myself regular pull downs or you do pull ups, right? Oh, but pull down with like a wide bar. Is that what you mean the bar? Yeah, just straight down. But like what I see a lot is changing the angle either, so where you're laying back or your laying forward, especially in the single arm variations. So just saying like does anyone really other than like the tick-tock kids? Do they, do you, does anyone do just straight regular old fashioned, you know, wide bar pull downs anymore? Like the machine was made to do? You're saying, basically. Yeah. Like the traditional pull down, you're saying. Well, I think we've all like, there's so much education out there now. And there's, and it's good and bad, I think. But in its goodness sense, because okay, educators, you know, can show, okay, well, this is the angle that the muscle is actually intended. This is the path that your elbow should actually be taken to fully contract the muscle. Yeah. But that being said, all the guys did a great job building their backs, going point eight to point B straight up and down vertical. I got it, check. I was just making a point that like does anyone do legitimate street up and down pull downs anymore? It seems rare. That is what we're here now days. Like even in that I would say that. Would you say that like it's changed a lot in the last two years or longer? Yes. Yeah, two years. Everyone's got the prime. Yeah, yeah. That's what you mean. Right. Everyone's doing more like narrow, not much of everyone used to back in the day. Everyone was like, the wider you go, the wider you get, right? You're not going to have to sort of bullshit. Yeah. I remember that. I was like, it's cute when the real skinny young kids have to activate their lads. What about the, yeah, pull the back of the fucker you did? What do you guys think about the one arm? Because I see that at a ton, especially with a lot of the younger guys. And that's the thing is they're like saying, that's the only way I can really get that activation to really feel it. I don't feel it when I'm just doing, you know, like a two arm pull down. I don't think that's the only way. I just don't think they've focused on their training enough. But I'm not going to say that. That's not a good exercise. I'm not going to say that that's here's what I do. I do a more the single arm way these days because I want to, I'm at the point where I want to eliminate any other body tissues coming into play for the most part, you know what I mean? Where I mean we've all probably been 18 to 25 where you want to just stack that that pull out. And your reps start to turn into a little bit more of a heave and pull it. Oh yeah. Like you're almost, you know what I mean? You feel cool and it's not saying it's not activating tissue, but is it as direct as doing something a little bit more concentrated like a single arm? Yeah, you know, I think they're all good. I'm just going to want record of saying I think you absolutely should be doing both, but especially if you're younger. I don't think you should really care about your exercise selection as much as just building intensity and getting good quality hard contractions of every workout. But I think as you get older maybe you do need to get a little more specialized. You guys have any other thoughts on that or you guys pretty much just agree with what Andrew is saying? I'm a pretty big fan of the one arm stuff honestly. I feel like it helps me activate my little bit better. But I do a little bit everything like the other day I did do just the regular wide grip lap pull down. That's what I was laughing. But it felt great. I don't know. And then I also do on your hand like what Jake other used to do during his videos. You know, like on the hand like a lap pull down. Those are good. I like those love because you're a little weird. You know what I'm trying to do a little bit more. Well, so what you do is there's a couple of different bars. You can that could easy bar. And on your on your own your sort of easier on the rest because it's like right it's like turned a little bit. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? Because the bars are a little. I'm still a little bit. You got to kind of know how to pull it because. Yeah. I can explain this. We could all explain this to people how to pull and not pull with the bicep. And a lot of them just they're not going to understand. They're not they're not going to get it. Yeah. So I agree with you. It doesn't make me cringe a little bit. I think it's a little bit. Nate knows how to pull it. Like Nate bitch, I think. Nate doing it that way. I'm like, oh, cool. Go for it. Right. Some different client who I don't know has that same mind muscle connection, the same awareness of how to activate and deactivate certain tissues. I'd be like, let's turn the risk around. Let's go with something a little different. That's what I'm saying. Yeah. I think I and I'm not even talking about the just lap pull down. But just in general, I've come up against a couple times. I'm thinking of one client that I work with and with her stiff leg movement. She really is trying to activate the glutes. But she uses very slow, meticulous concentrics. Everything she does is very slow. There's nothing like explosive about it. And I feel like there is something we've talked about it. I think there's something that is missing. If you only ever are trying to focus on just contracting the muscle. I don't think that you necessarily, like the muscle is going to contract. Like if you're going to, if you're using that, like if you're doing a stiff leg and you're squeezing the glutes and you're flexing the hamstrings. Like it, it might not, you might not be able to pinpoint like, okay, it's in the glutes and the glutes and the glutes and the glutes. I'm at the top. I'm squeezing the glute. I'm going to the negative. But like if you just dried that mother fucker up, you're using everything. It's all working in a chain together. You know what I mean? And I do think there's value to that. The only thing I think I see with the single arm stuff in the highly concentrated focus. And we did kind of, I think you guys did touch on it. Like Andrew, you're saying like, well, you just like stack the whole thing out. You know, you're not feeling like any one single. I can feel my lat all the way through the movement. But there's something to being also able to just fucking drive that shit down. You know what I mean? Well, make a comparison to Hansa Squad, right? Yeah, wasn't a meticulous, quad-focused squad. He was getting, literally, his whole body from his neck down to his calves, who were activated in that squad. And then the same like doing a pull down with maybe too much weight, there are some benefits there because, while you're not 100% on your lats, you're activating your biceps a little bit. You're activating your shoulder girdle a lot more. You're activating your abs a lot more. So yeah, I think there's parallels to that. We did that segment with Victoria about the necessity of estrogen and females. And somebody had commented saying like, well, you have to remember that estrogen is the cause of cancer and this and that and positive. So it's like the second you, the, the, she wasn't saying you should have this excess amount of pulling estrogen. And the, the, in bodybuilding, it's hard to think of middle ground. It's got to be all one thing, all the other. And so I guess my point would be not to say you should always overload the stack. I would, that's the nightmare that we used to do back in the early 2000s, you know. I would say though, but having, like, like, what you were talking about, Nate, you do both. Well, thank you to, like having the last reps be one or two, the last one or two reps be one or sloppy is okay. I think I, like, cosine that, you know. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Look, I don't want to be misunderstood. The one arm, I totally get it. Yeah. But I don't like as I don't like then when we see the Nate's do it and the, you know, the john meadows and then all these fucking kids come into the gym. Yeah. And they're doing it. And you just need to bang. You just need to find and move, figure way bang. If you're a little sloppy, you're a sloppy. Don't be doing the one arm bowl shed that just gets in the way of everybody else who's trying to get big. You're, it's almost like this mistaken because you could argue, it clearly will give them a better mind to muscle. They'll be able to feel the loudness. Which is important. But it is important. But I'm just saying, I don't think all things being considered. You really are there to get big and part of it is most, well, most kids aren't there to get big. They're, they're to look like a little more. A ripped little laugh plate. But if you're there to get big, just fucking stuff that is heavier. You're lap pulled out your chins. Especially when you look like an athlete anyway, you can do chins. They're fucking great. And they're going to grow you back far more than you tie in with one little handle. That for the bigger guys who can make something out of that set and actually get something from it. Well, the bigger one is to have somebody done that for years. That's what I was just willing to say. Me and like every other pro, but as all trained like that, like the first three or four years, you know, just go in and you're just like fucking on a mission. You know what I mean? And you're not worried about your form, isolating the shit. You're just fucking training your ass off. You know what I mean? And I think that's a lot of younger kids need to do the first like one to two, three years of training. I love Nate's perspective on time. And they think that first three or four years. And then you're huge. You're competed at the national level. You know what I mean? I know what you mean. You'll be like me. I didn't say they don't. I'm saying as a rule, it's a blanket statement. But the large majority of kids don't. But there are those kids who are, they're not your typical young 20 something. They actually can't, they're logical, they're sensical. And they say, and they see, you know, I got to pick up heavy shit. I got to use dumbbells and barbells and all this cable shit. Just isn't. It's not a cable. I still, and I know I saw an old when I say this, but cable machine for the large part is refinement. It's not to get huge. Pick up shit where you actually have to not just press it or pull it or roll it. But you have to stabilize it. And I think when you first start, that is huge, huge. And then once you get the muscle, then you start refining it. You start incorporating machines and cables. Yeah, exactly. I said, bicep curl. Shit like that. The cable curl is giving you a better bicep peak skip. What's that? We'll get that curl is getting better bicep. I just want to tone and build the peak. So if I do the cable curls, we'll have. I just want to tone. It's got says I'll take heavy ass barbell rows over. Pinky twisting one arm pulling Bs with 15 reps. Hey guys, I'm going to take a brief pause to shut out our advertisers. I'm going to try to make this quick, but keep in mind they're responsible for helping us to put these shows out. If you guys want to support our programming, of course, you can do so through Patreon and thank you to everybody who supports the show through Patreon. I will have links to that below as well as to all of our advertisers. If you shop with our advertisers, you'll get great products, that I stand behind and you'll also be supporting our program. First of all, check out truenutrition.com. If you're in the US, I use their hydrolyzed beef collagen every day. And I use their citrally mallet, beta, alanine, and EAA on days that I train. They have high quality protein powders and tons of flavors. Hit me up if you have any questions. Use our code think over there. You'll get some additional savings plus your support our programming. And you'll get some high quality third party tested supplements. If you're in Canada, check out supplementsource.ca. They have blow out deals on top name brands supplements. They constantly have different things happening. So be sure to go to their site and check them out. I recently saw a car balloon for like 30 bucks off. And he really can't beat those prices. Buses they have free shipping over $99. If you're in the UK, then you probably already know about strong sports. They're one of the leader in health supplements in the United Kingdom. Strong sports nutrition has standalone supplements like NAC and Tudka. And they have finished blends like support max. A high quality, well priced, on cycle support stat. I've least blow to everything. Thanks for watching. Thanks for your support. Nice. I do we answer that question. It was all rose or all pulled out. Do you need to pull down? Well, one problem. I thought of this. Yeah. What sport do people literally only do a rowing motion? Crow. Crow. No way. Yeah. It's called crew. What a group. Yeah. I don't really think those guys have. No, obviously it's the they're doing, you know, a thousand repetitions, but they don't do any pull downs, but I don't think they have crazy develop. I never, most of the crew guys, I see them pretty skinny. You know, it's skinny. Yeah. I guess a lot like cycling. Some of those cycling guys will have huge quads. Well, other ones, they're not all that impressive. So then we tend to look and go, oh, the guy with the huge quads who's a cycle. And I better start cycling. 95% of cyclists don't have large quads. You got the genetic freak over here, who is my own probably has horse legs. And then he does that. It may be the same thing for rowing. I don't know. But if that's the only you're thinking about if that's, you're developing everything else. Yeah. The backs probably going to look kind of big compared to every kind of feeling. I feel like guys that pick up something move stuff. Have big backs. Yeah. John, I can roll had it. What? Four on it was one inch, inch and a half bigger than the other one. The hand is just going to take up those. Those cyclists. You ever notice how the guys with the big quads, they always have one quads. It's like 25% bigger than the other one. Really? I didn't notice that. It's a couple of round. It goes around. I think it's because they go around in circles and one direction. And I think one leg has to do more of the driving. I think they have one leg. Yeah. Yeah. How to do what the ang, I think they're at an angle when they're on the circular course. And then they're always going to their left. I think. Well, think about them. Which side is it logically? It would have to be the out. I'm guessing. I'm just guessing. But I would think it would be the outside leg that would drive harder than right? So anybody who knows anybody who's listening. Correct me if I'm wrong. But I would. I would assume it would be the outside leg driving harder. Because you're driving harder on one side and the inside. There would be a stability. I would think there would be. I'm trying to relate. We could do the math using like. Like a centripetal force equation, which I used to know back when I was in physics. But I don't know. Maybe Scott probably just have to get quite a bicycle. Scott says if doing it right. Crew is mostly about driving with the leg. Actually that's a good point. Yeah, that's a good point. But they are doing just one one rowing motion. They're not they're not getting any up and down. I would say this. I I I I I I I okay. I was a time that I worked out my parents basement. I was a little kid and I didn't have a pull down. So I didn't have that opportunity. I can't really tell you because I didn't really grow a lot of muscle at that time. Either whether you can grow a big thick back without pull downs. But then eventually pulled down. It became an option. You can figure out how to do pull ups. I thought would be why limit yourself. Unless there was something where it's like, oh, I just can't physically do pull downs for some reason. Otherwise it's like, well, could you grow a could you grow a can you grow legs without doing a certain exercise or grow chest without doing a certain me and maybe, but if you have more tools. Why not figure out how to make that tool. Maybe that's why he's asking maybe he doesn't have that. Yeah, I would wonder this. I don't want to keep beating this like a dead horse, but I am thinking this now that Scott mentioned this. You have those people on my wife is one of them at drives. You fucking nuts and I'm probably because I'm the opposite. But I can hang from a churning bar or lap pull and my scapula won't come out. But she can do it and they come out like fucking giant bat wings. Doesn't mean there's a ton of muscle there. I'm just saying so then you tell that scapula coming apart like that you're not going to get that kind of protraction in the in a rowing type of movement. But you will when if it's overhead. Is there some logic to that? See what I'm saying? There's more range of motion. The scapula is moving more when the weight is being pulled down or the body is being pulled up then during a row. Well, here's a funny fact for team pull ups. Think about all the guys in prison that do pop all the time. They have pretty good backs. You know what I mean? And that's all they have for a back movement in prison is called. That's true. Just saying team pulls. They didn't have far enough. Those are prison. They're a prison. They're a prison. They're a prison. Why? Yeah. They're not going to have to edit that out. I think it's a credit to the genetics. I was that was too exact. Sorry, I just thought it was fun. Okay, but they're not doing any rows. I mean, I think it's just saying pull ups are pretty good. Obviously, you're going to, obviously you're going to choose rows over any kind of vertical movement. I guess if you had the option. Yeah. There's a lot of stiff like a deadlift and RDLs and things like that going on. Maybe maybe donkey calf raises, things like that in the yard, don't you think? There we go. That's true. Okay. Here it no. Fuck you guys. Apparently Nate's the only one who can tell the jokes and the only one who laughs. And anything you said when Nate said. Cross the lines. All right. Question for the next episode. Card loading. I guess we're getting off training for a minute here. Card loading is a pretty common topic for competitive athletes during a peak week. However, as I was trying to learn more, I came across the concept of fat loading for priming the body with carbs in something with insulin sensitivity. I don't really understand it, but could someone go into detail about this topic. Man, I wish I knew which episode it was. I looked for it before the show. Scott Stevenson, who's with us now, did a whole thing. We didn't. I can't find what episode it was. But he talked about the idea of fat loading on that. His thought was that there are, there are going to be a triglyceride store in the muscle. It's going to be a lot less than than what we can store with glycogen. But to a smaller extent, you could fat load. So there is that. Well, and also. I mean, I would use someone. Oh, sorry, go ahead. I was just going to say what someone there when you're fat load. Fuck. Everybody all at once again. One, two, three, go. My things are behind you guys. That's why my things behind that's why. But now I was going to say some of the faster metabolism. I would definitely use a little bit more higher fats. You know what I mean? Because you know some guys you start feeding them. You could close to the show. And it's like their metabolism picks up and everything like that. And it's like they're starting to lighter flatter. That's sort of where I'd start to utilize fats. Otherwise, I keep them pretty low as far as you know them, my guys. But definitely helps load on the carbs or should you know what I mean? So you're not burdened right through them. What the question being like increasing insulin sensitivity when you're fat loading, you're typically restricting some level of carbohydrate. So by doing that, you're becoming more insulin sensitive while you're fat loading. So now you're intercholular triglyceride stores are full. And then you can worry about storing your glycogen. So basically just you're becoming more insulin sensitive by restricting those carbohydrates for the two or so days that you're fat loading. Yeah. And why you say that that makes total sense. And I have a couple clients who have worked with Scott Abel before. And I am slightly familiar with his work. He and I didn't get along back in the day. We had a small run in as people hit on the boards. But I always had a lot of respect for the work that he did. And his knowledge he was very well established. I mean, if you were anybody at all in Canada, you'd worked with Scott Abel because he just was huge up there. He was a big in the United States too. So I'm part of it. I'm part of it. Here this and he gets mad at me because I'm saying he wasn't anything in the United States. And he thinks it's getting out of context. You know, like it, it years ago. But anyway, it goes opposite. His loading protocol is opposite of what you just said. And I found that kind of funny. You're not funny. You're the good one, please. Okay, but that's logically I would look at it because I was trying to get. I'm thinking to myself, I know his I know his loading was roughly two day. I knew a few things about it. I know he's not roughly two days. One was a higher fat day. One was a higher carb day. Like one would favor fat, one would favor carbs. So I'm thinking of myself going in before you get the information. Rough draft. It's not detailed information, but rough information from these clients. I'm thinking, okay, he's going to load the fat first. And then go in with cars. But he did it the other way around. He went carbs first. And then he went with fat. Now, you know, I can I can reach. And I can see what his ideology may have been. But then the question was, and this is why I looked into it, why not just combine the two. So you favoring one over the other in a little Scott. This is, but I are referring to Scott because he had used this method for. Fuck, I mean forever. It was very good with the method. So I personally would I think go with the. I would think that it would be fat first in England cars, but I think his ideology, his. He had the concept behind it was to get the carbs in first. And then to add the fat in the next day, because the fat wouldn't have any impact on. Like water retention or or so, building or anything like that. And that would allow any little bit of water that needed to be moved from the higher carbon take. And the fat would help to keep full so that they didn't lose fullness. That's the best I can come up with. Well, I mean, I think if you just look at it even simpler where we have compartments for glycogen, we have compartments for fat and they can't cross over, but you can fill both of them. You can either do one before the other. You can do both at the same time, but I think there's research that shows it's more advantageous to like in the the previous example of fat loading to increase your insulin sensitivity to get a hyper glycogenation if that's a word. Hyper, hyper, hyper, hyper, hyper terms of got yeah, in terms of glycogen synthase being more active to help you load more glycogen. I believe that we have an article on maldogdide.com. I think it's how to I'm going to watch this. Scott can type it in the in the mess in the comments, but how does this in a bodybuilder bodybuilder is basically as peak strategy that he did for maldogdide like five or six years ago. I've got that just what it's called. I've got this too far on us stuff on there. Yeah, there's two exactly, there's two parts on there. If you guys anyone out there is a member of the site, I would absolutely. It's got some name to find that article. I wanted to read that article and I wasn't a member. I joined for a month or two just so that I could read that article. That was really solid. And then of course I read a lot more and checked out a lot more sense, but like that was my realization. Did I? You mean you're not still a member Scott? No, I've heard a lot more than that. I just downloaded it all and I just read it later. Let me say it's really important though, and Andrew you said this earlier about the muscle can store fat and muscle can store carbohydrate. I've always found it kind of funny. I don't mean this in a kind of sending way or anything like that. But I've always found it funny. How many people I have run into other declines or whatever who don't know that the muscle will soak up. And will pull in fat fatty acids. It's almost like they want to say and somehow have to know it's just carbs. It's just glycogen. You're stupid. Your fat just goes into fat cells. That's it. Yeah. Hello. It just blows my mind that that that has not more that it's not more understood than it is. When you ask me to like loading with apps, you can use like less carbs and it'll be actually better for your digestion and like got you know what I mean. Yep, case by case case by case. Yeah, sure, but I would I'm just saying that's my kind of argument when it gets a point where if you're pushing cars and you're just pushing and mass and especially clean cars. I mean this is what goes down the skip load rabbit hole. But if you're pushing clean cars and you're pushing like crazy. And it just comes a point where it's just not fucking doing anything for you until you're loading and you're trying to get in all these clean cars for three and four days. Yeah, where there's any type of impact. So that's what I was doing with skip loading back in the early days was it was so carb. And it worked. But when as the competitors were bigger, it didn't work as well. So it was almost like there weren't enough calories. And adding in the fat that's what really helped to push and especially the larger guys that would fill them out. So much more so much like in a but it didn't take as long much shorter process. And you just got to the point where I do the large majority of my skip loads with fat now versus the traditional skip loading. I guess you could call it that was very low fat and that's what it was ninety ninety five percent of the time back. Right now it's damn near opposite. I was going to actually add I think your points get to like clients or people will still be like what what do you mean the muscle stores fat. I think Scott's article was one of the first ones that really kind of started getting coaches and people to start looking at intercellular fat retention in terms of a peak strategy and whatnot. So I definitely I like to give credit one is do and I think you know like I gave you credit last week's skip. I think you're you're trying to talk down about yourself or whatever and I'm like no you've offered a lot to this industry and I like the point out. Oh right absolutely. Yeah, Scott Stevenson has to. I've been reading his stuff for probably twenty years now. All right got a couple more here and then we'll go to the live feed as well. Oh also a little side note speaking of Scott we were talking about a rap dough he had said there was a research study on D. Oh M S that good skip. Yeah, but I guess it's not something that we were working with the level of flexor by suffoccetra. Only in one of the subjects got rabbedo. Oh shit. One of the domes of the elbow flexors. So they're doing like girls they're doing like extra nothing it's just like literally a tiny muscle. How could you I couldn't even imagine getting rabbedo off of that. Like they will you never saw the muscle tech twenty four hour arm workouts. No it was a recipe for rabbedo. Yeah, wasn't it like you would two hour arm workout and then stop and have a protein shake and then immediately go back to another two hour arm workout and then have lunch and right. I mean I remember those now. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I was. Actually I knew a guy who got rabbedo and he was drinking that all day you may product and it was just like BCA's and some other stuff and he was like and I didn't feel good. So I just was putting more in my water and he was like I just kept drinking it and drinking it and he finally ended up in the hospital. It was like oh you were drinking all that and that was making it worse because he was just like hammering all the BCA's and everything. There was some other stuff in there too. I think but I'm not saying the products bad just don't get rabbedo and drink gallons of it just don't buy it. It's going to be as rare for me. It really is. It really is. Just don't buy it. Okay, some days my rectus for Morris are visible in other days not. Seems that non-leg days are best to see them in the gym. And even better is after a massage but the massage effect is temporary is this water bad posing muscle isolation small muscle development or tight tissue. I have quite lean at this point. So they when they show they are looking great. When not the when not the quads are big like turnups and he also adds the other strong possibility of swelling post leg day and post one hour cardio walk each day. We talked about separation. Yeah. I mean I think it sounds like inflammation. We talked about this before the show and we brought this picture for everybody so they can see that. I would say it's even more basic than this. I mean this is like thinking of reading about it again like your muscles are just depleted like when your when your legs look the best when you haven't trained. When you come out of the four or five days. Okay, that too. But like two or three days after you train legs but you're also like a gym load it because you still have separation all the muscles are individually you know. Sticking out through able you're able to see them clearly your legs won't ever be bigger than when you're training your legs and you have a nasty quad set. But they don't have that kind of separation that you would have three or four days later when the blood is out of them and you but you're also a glycogen mode. And this is a exactly why for the final week of the show we stopped training legs pull back cardio. So I like get the most detail. Yeah. It sounds like he doesn't really know the consumer stuff. Well and yeah, I mean the full moon display. In the weaker muscle massage is what cause inflammation. In weaker muscles will go flat first if it was something that's a wasn't as dense. I'm going to ask you guys something and I think it's something I only discovered within the last five years that. I can more I can target that area of my quad more when I'm doing leg extensions if I lean forward if I lean forward more I can feel it right in that part of the quad. If that's due to leg having more muscular development where like I think about when I first started training in my legs or sticks you probably can't feel it like you're just your leg feels the pump you don't I mean. Yeah, what I mean back I get more out of the rectus femurcy. Yeah, it'll yeah, it'll just be safe. I've heard people say that strike when the yeah that's that's just kind of odd because I know when I lean forward it's minimal. No, I'm credently I'm sticking my leg out right now and I can flex it like I when I really hyper extend it like I'm flexing it as we speak. And it and it's because I'm leaning forward at the same time if I lean back I can do it but I it's not as much it's just a weird thing I wonder if that's like a show. We sure not confusing the other muscles. I was kind of what I was going to ask but I didn't want to say no like dip shat like androgyst. No, I'm like 100% positive. But I've heard other people say that. I've heard other people say that you know I've talked to people who get more of like down toward the tear drop when they lean forward and then further up the leg when they lean back getting more of that. Let me add something in that could make that happen and I think Andrew backed me up on this I think but if you are lifting see. Okay, I got to make sure it's famous right if you are there's two ways to do leg extensions when it comes to okay let me explain this yeah if you drive the back you know where I'm going don't you. I don't it's hard explain it is if you feel like you're driving as you extend your legs out with your your feet on the pad as you're making that movement if you feel like you're driving the back of your hamstrings behind your knee into the pad. I'm going to be different than if you're lifting or if you're not really lifting it your your your quad near the knee off of the pad of the sea but that's kind of what you're doing you're pulling up and that might be probably comes up yeah my knee probably comes up because it's. I literally just think that's exactly what it is. I literally just talked about this but for the antagonistic hamstrings when you're on the line ham curl like if you think about a line hamstring curl right how people do them like their glutes are not flex they're not pressing the hip into the pad into the pad yeah but at the same time. It's so hard to describe this without showing someone having them feel but do not like you don't want your need to come off the pad but you want to think about your knee coming off the pad and I guarantee if you do it that way you're going to have your your activating your hands for so much more and you got to cut your weight down by 30%. I can see that yeah right to try tomorrow you got to line ham curl. No I don't. We'll go out and get ones. Yeah. You do it tell me how to say I do it. Yeah I was going to say I do it somewhere I sort of just sit myself up on my elbows on a line ham curl so then you're back and your glute is odd about you taking out but yeah you like you said it's like way harder. But you feel on your hamstrings you know what I mean because you're not using your glutes. I kind of got this from Donby on the dumbbell hamstring curl the way he'd have you do them with the way Nate's kind of describing with like kind of being a little bit more arched. Yep on a flat bench but also fill this taught me this like four or five years ago he goes try this and pull in your knee think about pulling your knee off. It's still hard to show pull your knee off the edge of the pad. Yep. I mean which takes a lot more focus on you can even do it when you're standing straight up drive your knee back as you do as you do a standing hamstring curl and you will feel your hamstring activate so much more it's the same idea. I think I do that I think I do maybe not I don't do it intentionally though but I think now that you're the way you're describing that I do feel like that's the way. Hips are down in the legs if feel like you're yeah I think it would be. I'd lower listening to the audio podcast even you guys watching this it doesn't mean anything just never mind. I will say back on quad extensions I see a lot of people missing like the last two or three inches of the top part of the exercise and I think you're going to get way more of that. You know hitting that top part of the quad if you're coming up early and jacking it out as high as you can. You know at least for me I feel like way more deeper in my quad you know towards my hip. What about on the other end? I'm just gonna go ahead and see this yeah when when guys will like you know where the stack is going to hit but they stop like three inches before I see that. Yeah I think I think it's just how people do their reps like I don't think they're intentionally trying to get out of like that full stretch. I just think that's how they started getting into it where because we have two like extensions in our gym. One of them stops you before you can get a full stretch and I always opt to do the one where you can get that full stretch for the reason. So I think it's the biggest one that preached the stretch muscle like Dante that was this thing right. Yeah. That would make my stretch like weighted. It was day Smith was telling me his thoughts on that which were very similar to make sure that you're. In in in the context of saving your knees that the tension is. Yeah we're sharing force at the top right. Yeah well we're talking about it I'm talking about at the bottom even on the stretch like on the stretch. Not a bottom of of coming down getting that deep stretch and being able to pull from that stretch position is what you was saying. I definitely feel it. But that last vulnerable position is that what you're saying. I think that's what you're saying. Then the full extension yeah okay. That's what I just want to make sure that I was understanding right because it's the full extension. The straightening of the knee that has the most shearing force on all the shift that you can fuck up in your knees basically that's why. Even now I will not lack that bitch out because I just spent 16 months rehab and that mean and it feels great underneath and because of that big stretch. I use a strive and it depends on the legacy. You guys know this too you can have 20 different legacy. It's not with 20 different fields. And I use a strive plate loaded and I set that bitch as far underneath as it'll go and it's already a short back which makes you lean back anyway. You can't really lean forward mechanically on at least on the one I use and I load that bitch at the top. So it's heavy as fucking that stretch position because I have no irritation there. But because I'm so new to rehab and it could be out there in the front during that lock and I don't want to lack that bitch out. Let me sense well I will say that for a quad extension as I never go 15 to 20 reps is my rep range. I never go anything lower than 15 because that's when you're going to run in the knee issues you know what I mean guys doing eight ten reps on a quad extend like 200 pounds like come on. With the same reason why you wouldn't do all out heavy set of eight on a bicep on a preacher girl right like just your me for tearing your bicep tendon as much higher on something like that. All right. I'll jump into some rapid fire here. This is an easy one. I wanted to share it case anybody else had this question too. I don't know what this. Audia is but jam says I can't find you on audio. Can you post audio versions of your podcasts of your videos there would love to listen to them thanks again for the great content anybody who doesn't know. You can go to think big body building media on just about any podcast app no matter what you use Spotify. Soundcloud iTunes Google Play and search think big body building media you'll find all the shows there. And if you want to go way back in the archives search advice is radio and if you want to go even further back in the archives search body building nerds radio. Keep going and go to question because I got a question because see feel like people are always asking you to like. Add the audio to this or why aren't you on this wouldn't it just be easier for them just to download that app on their phone the the ones that you do post on. You could even if it's just for one podcast or do people just fall in love with their interface. Yeah, most of them don't just so in love with certain interfaces that they have to use this app like most of them that will repopulate yeah I haven't heard of that one but most of them repopulate they might have been searching for you know blood sweat and gear body building coaching Q and a or it's just body building. But it's all under think big body building media so they may have been searching for the wrong thing that's that's what my guess is because the RSS feed when you send that out like iTunes picks that up. And then that kind of gets disseminated to a bunch of other places there's a few that don't like Spotify I have to have my I had to approve it there. Google play I had to approve it there but then that also proliferates to a bunch of different spots so if for the most part of what I'm saying. If I want to watch 1883 I know I got to go to Paramount Plus. Right I'm just saying like as a user like whatever app that's got puts it on because which is like all of them right apparently all of them but already unless you search there on the page on all of them that's cool. Yeah, all right we had one about. I just sniped this out from a conversation on. Patreon shout out to everybody by the way on Patreon thank you guys we got it I got a few new patreon subscribers so thank you guys very much. I'm going to do a live stream over there next week so tune in if you're if you're one of the patreon subscribers check it out. I'm going to be posting one that she'll be happening I believe I'm going to do it next Wednesday or Thursday. Let's see though he he says he came off everything he's getting some heart testing done I don't think he wants me to mention his name. He said while he's off of everything he's trying to think about raising his free test Dante had mentioned boron and he asked if we could discuss that with the B.S.G. team. 5 milligrams twice a day. We'll help increase your free test off strong. Okay let's go this way though what will it I'm not beating it up I'm just I'm just asking for for conversation what is it really going to do as far as increase an impact. For increase in the number because it worked. Yeah, it's good so I think it's worth absolutely trying and it's great if he's like got his blood's done now and you can see what he looks like. Completely dead off everything and then test again maybe I'm using it for six to seven weeks and see the change but. Is it going to increase your free test out of normal range absolutely not but could it get you from say middle normal to. Higher normal absolutely. Because I'm just going to use myself as an example if I come off hypothetically like a week ago. And I'm going to clean out everything else but I can take pretty much. Maybe calm it maybe maybe calm it would bring it up out of the basement or help to kick it in a little but I've been doing gear for too long and I'm older. There isn't going to you know I'm not trying to sound negative I'm just trying to be realistic. I just don't feel and it could be wrong I could be just being incredibly he might be on tier team. And negative and that sort of thing. Now I'm coming off to your he is or me. Yeah I believe he's coming I believe he's on tier T he's just like not on cycle you know he and he wants to try to do everything he can so let's I see what you're saying. Like what's what's a little borne going to do when you're not having you don't have any tasks is what you're getting. Yeah so that's why in different situations like and that's why I use myself as an example. Honestly I don't even do I mean it's cheap I give you that and if I'm going to be maybe I would rather run 90 and. Instead of 60 for a total task maybe it would be worth that you know 12 bucks I don't know but I think it's a good point. First and two that's a good point so that's a good point because you're talking about. Ken's get pill being on gear 25 years you know pulling off for 10 to 12 weeks to clean out and get his health ready to do another cycle right versus. Let's say like here's where I recommend it oftentimes with more my natural guys that are completely natural or my tier T guys yeah I've just started TRT so it's you right like it's not something I'm going to tell. Nate hey you're cruising make sure you get that 10 milligrams of of boron in because it's going to make a huge difference for you right but I do think it can make a difference for someone who. They're completely natural they have their hypogonaddle and so they've low regular test total test off thrown low free testosterone and I do think supplementing with that. Because I've just seen a happen on blood work for in those cases where okay yeah bumps you up a good couple points. Yeah. Same thing with like maybe guys that are just on TRT but if it's you're right like if it's a guy who's used to like blasting and cruising probably not as big of a deal. All right I'm going to jump into the questions we had here. Let's see any advice on Gino prior to surgery. Would you hammer estrogen low so is he getting Gino surgery. I would try to get my astinous eyes I can and I would just try to see if I get those suckers to be double these and so they make the doctor work. Make a man is money. Oh my god. Who's can squeeze more out. Do you guys know anything about Drapfoot? Do you have any suggestions helping with Drapfoot? I don't know much about it. I don't know what to do. I have a client that had it but he didn't have a Drapad because I used to train him and never really exhibited anything. He always talked about his Drapfoot and I never thought to really ask him much about it because it didn't affect him. I want to learn more now. So Drapfoot says I'm going to guess and say it's a collapsed or some type of issue with an arch. That's a total sometimes called. I think it's a general. I think it's a good idea for difficulty lifting the foot part of the front part of the foot. So you can't do her reflex. So then it's the opposite of the arch. It's more a tie with the bigger. It would be your Tibialis. Maybe your Tibialis isn't working. Yeah, you have a Drapfoot front of your foot might drag on the ground while you walk. So I don't know if it's a nerve activation thing or if it's a muscle weakness just because it's weak. I guess I don't understand that. Yeah, and what we're on the topic, it's an anterior Tibialis. Is there another Tibialis? Is there a, oh, like a posture? Yeah. Just think of why the anterior, I mean clearly it's because you're not getting it in the front. Because you're not staying anterior, rectus, for more us. So you're not staying anterior biceps, whatever. Yeah, I give you a saying. So the Drapfoot is a disease. Rather foot drop is a sign of an underlying neurological muscular or anatomical problem. Yeah, I'm going to record and say we are not the guys to ask about this. You should probably talk to your dad. Yeah, I wonder, you know, but obviously whatever it is, finding out what one of those reasons it is, I know, the muscle muscular and herological, that would be the first step in trying to recover from it, right? Absolutely. Absolutely. All right, what else do we have here? Let's see, um, Andrew Nolan. He says, um, I have more anxiety. Oh, this was about when we were training, I think we maybe not talk about the squad. It might have been, but it maybe I'm wrong. Because I have more anxiety that I will stop, yeah, it is that I will stop progressing, then have to become comfortable. What's wrong, skip? What did you do? Well, I have my new lights on playing with them as it gets darker. I'm sorry, I'm trying not to be. It looks perfect, right? By the way, it was really good. Well, I have, by saying, oh, the one in the stop in the conversation, that doesn't draw any attention to it. Yeah, I don't. I think the things to do that, I have to cough so I'm going to hit the mute button and excuse me. Yeah. Okay. Skip that looks like a fake, that looks like a fake backdrop, like one of the, It really is. Are you CGI? Oh, does it really? Is that CGI? That's why I see you out. Yeah, I'm fucking, that's just, you just go out. Go out. I'm just going down. Try to be quiet. Yeah, I'm going down. So I'm just going down. Okay. How about this one here? Nick says, uh, I am on legit TRT 150 milligrams a week. I went to run 300, 300ish test for 10 weeks. Then 150 milligrams TRT for the next six weeks. And then do a TRT blood panel with six weeks. Be enough time for my hormones to level back out in pass the TRT test just fine. Are you 100? You can't press proper or you're using testosterone. Yeah. What's the, um, undeclough, no way. I think it's going on. And we're, I'm decinating. Yeah, my brain wasn't working. I mean, well, okay. Let's talk about this because I think we probably all have clients that are on TRT, medically prescribed by their doctor, but they do a little extra on the side. And they need to get, you know, have their levels be somewhat normal. somewhat normal when they get in front of their doctor, depending on how cool their doctor is. Like for I can tell you an example, I've got a master's computer, lots of muscle, and he's on TRT for maybe four weeks out of the year. Well, that's not true. But he's on true TRT, like a lot less than he should be. And he's got a pretty cool doctor, but the doctor's like, hey, let's just make sure your test is somewhat normal before you come in here. So what we do is, typically, he always has to, for some reason, get tested during his, his contests, perhaps. So we're using like prop usually or something. Yes, suster, something like that. So what we'll do is we'll simply just pull his prop out for, you know, four or five days. And all of a sudden, he's back down into the 750, 800 range, and that's perfect for what a doctor's looking for. You guys run into that issue? No. I don't have a whole lot of clients who run their TRT through, really. Yeah, I mean, I do, but it's not like a huge amount of them. I think a lot of my clients did. They got tired of all the bullshit and pain in the mind. Yeah, yeah. And they just, and they run the blood work. And they know enough about what to look for from being with the TRT clinic prior and having it not getting raped for lack of a better term and then I'll get a whole lot of shit for that. So I'll apologize. Oh, right. Turn it. We, you know, I didn't. I didn't. I'll play it again. I just can't point. You know, I hadn't said anything about challenged kid or anything like that. I think about any minorities, my anorty group, nothing but that I went with rape. I apologize. And then you just keep saying it again. It makes you the, it's not much more cringe. It makes the one who caught the, he was like, you just said it again. I apologize. That's why I'm using. Let's see how many more times he says it while you're popped. In Matt, Matt blooded points out. He keeps an Rx so he can travel with his testosterone. Yeah, that's a good reason. Yeah. I'm gonna tell you this. Oh, I won't. Like, most of my clients, the doctors don't give a shit. Like, they don't really get tested honestly. Well, there are a lot more. I'm just saying. HRT clinics. Then there were. Yeah, yeah. I was like, or even two years ago. Like, a lot of them are like, I had a woman that came to me. She was on testosterone, anovar, and wind straw. And like, she was a non-competitor. Yeah. Good God. We put her in a room. And I'm like, oh, and her doctor prescribed 25 and 25 of the var and the, and the, wow, I'm like, who's this doctor? I need to look this person up. Like, what is going to get? That's pretty good. Yeah, what would you get? What would you get if that's what she gets? She's right in 25. That's pretty for trend alone in shit. That means Jesus. But I was going to say also about the RX of traveling thing. The TSA is not looking for deer. Okay. Like, yeah. As someone, I'm not telling you to do this. I'm just saying as someone that's traveled with a legit pharmacy in my bag when I've gone for some of these two week long trips on the road, when I've been deep in a cycle, they're not looking for anything. You know, I've talked to TSA about this. They're looking for bombs and explosives. And they're not looking to protect you. They're looking to protect the planes. The planes are the billion dollars investments. The airports are the billion dollar investments. Yeah. They're not going to, you know, like, they're not trying to jam you up. Yeah. I agree with that. I have clients that do a lot of travel for work in there the same. In fact, there was a time that I would have been really careful until I started seeing clients. They're like, oh, no, I just take it all with me. All my syringes, everything, all my gear. Just starting. That's fine. Yes, you guys about it. What two months ago? I literally, I told you. That time, and all the time I have spent, I did not know that it was that common in that they did not care. I would tell clients all the time, send it to yourself. I've done that too, though. I don't know. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no. You're much better off getting caught with it in person than sending through the mail. Because now you're sending something, you're using the federal postal service to transport your children. True. I agree with that. Let's say this. Let's throw in the little, because this part's important. And I agree with you, right, do. But they technically can't open that package without a warrant or without cause. If it were international, they could just get into whatever they want. But if you're sending something domestic, they would literally, which is probably half of the reason that they, my protein box winds up that it looks like it's been kicked for four miles, because they probably swear somethings in it and they're trying to make it look like they didn't purposely and eventually get in it. Technically, they're not supposed to be able to get into your domestic mail without a warrant. Without a warrant. Yeah. You'd have to have an issue. Like you'd have to be leaking or something like that. You know, they can open it. I think it's good. We all know the feds play it real safe when it comes to. Yeah, play by the law. I'm not intruding. Not intruding. It's personal. It would be a lot. If you were like, say, traveling to a show and you sent yourself a handful of, you know, wind stroll in a couple shots, you know, it'd be a lot to like go in and bust you for that, you know. Yeah. Well, I'll say this. Even with that being said, I now know that they basically just don't give a shit. So I was pretty happy when I was fine. I literally got off got my bagged, my luggage, and I was like walking with my chest poked out like I got it. I got gear in this bag. Oh, my gear bitch is I got away with it. And really they're looking going, we just don't give a fuck. Like what's this guy's P-Cock before? Yeah. I know. I think he's not even that big anyway. What the fuck? What's the big thing? Yeah. All right. Let's see. We got one more here. This is from Matt Blv. He said, Burberryen, how many milligrams of Burberryen per day and when should you take it to help with insulin sensitivity? We're half a cent. And 500 milligrams of amp, p.m., I think is a good way to go. I've seen studies with 1500. Yeah, I was going to say you could do three times a day too, but I think I've gone. I start. Okay, I've even started with like depending on the situation, like, hey, let's just take 500 with that meal. You know what I mean? Like, even one time. Let's see what happens with that. Do you use it every day? Like, wrong. In a situation like that. Oh, if like we're trying to fix someone's insulin sensitivity and I think it's definitely not a stress related thing, then yeah, I would do it. I'll say, okay, let's pump it. So people have it in the programs you're around, you know? Prop, because there's no real issues. There's no real negative issues with taking it. I mean, right, like we talked about it's counterpart, like, Matt Foreman for instance, which a lot of people, which much bigger 10, 5 years ago, I feel like, but a lot of guys were having digestive issues. A lot of guys were feeling like, man, I'm looking flat. Like, all the time, I experienced some massive hamstring crampion, like all the time when I was taking that. And it took me a while to figure out that that was what it was, because I just couldn't, yeah, I just couldn't wrap my head around. Why would Matt Foreman? And I couldn't find anything in the literature, but I just pulled it out. And now I don't get hamstring cramps. So no kidding. I mean, I pulled it out. Six or seven years ago. But, yeah. What do you think about losing your pre-workout meal? What's that? What do you think about losing your pre-workout meal? Like that time I'd never met Foreman. Oh, I'd never. Sorry. I mean, if it's, I mean, here's the thing. I wouldn't use it unless I had a reason, too. But then again, it's not going to hurt you if you take it and you don't need it. If you get what I'm saying. Like, I would throw it in there if we noticed the blood sugar was, you know, high regularly and I didn't determine that it had to do with a stress-related component or something like that. It was just an insulin sensitivity thing. The other things I'd be doing, too, to attack the insulin sensitivity other than adding berber in, right? We would talk about this at Nazio, you know, some type of mini diet or pulling carbs back in particular situations, adding cardio in, whatever it might be. I generally don't put it personally around training. I might thought being that our insulin sensitivity is probably going to be the best around training. So I try to put it, like say the Pacific guy trains after meal one or something. Then I'd probably put it like with his last big carb meal of the day, like a way from training assuming like your best response is going to be that early part of the day. So let's hit you later, something like that. If I was going to do one dose, let's say. I think I said you're not going to use it if you don't need it to control blood sugar. And I think if you're not, if you're using berber in and it's almost kind of just like a throw in, like I don't really know that I need it, but you know what I'm going to use it in here, then that could get into the situation where Nate is talking about, a little bit of what Scott's talking about. Okay, maybe your blood sugar running, your blood sugar levels are running a little bit low going into a workout. But that would just be more from me really not, if you were running low, then you wouldn't have needed it probably in the first place. Yeah. But then maybe Nate's situation, maybe you're hyper loading somebody pre workout with say a massive amount of cart. Like let's say the aceto throw them off the hook. I got you know what I mean. I'm just going to throw it on. So I can see a situation there, but I'd probably rather use insulin in that situation. I know right. Yeah, that was going to go like, yeah, of course. Yeah. My answer for everything is just throw some insulin in. Have you guys found people going to throw blood sugar levels? Let's just do it with insulin. Let's go right to the hormone. Have you guys found people that with mat farm and some people that will get real full and they're like, oh my god, my pumps are incredible. And then other people that go flat from it. I don't think I ever found anyone that was full. They're that had that great experience with it. I think on paper, we all thought we were going to have great experiences with it. Like I even know some prep coaches that were using it for people's carbobs and then wondering why they're sitting on the toilet every five minutes and why they just didn't have that pop on stage. Yeah. I'm paper you would think like, oh, this makes a lot of sense. This is awesome. But I think in in practical use, it just doesn't have that effect on your body. Yeah, I've known a few people. Couple people. That's why I asked. But like I wanted it to work for me and it never did. Like I'm talking a couple literally out of and this was like 2015 we're talking. Shout out to Nags. What were their body type? What were their body types? Ndove's out of care. Big like heavy Ndove. You know? So I was just going to say I have to help those out more than link your mesos. Yeah. Yeah, I go flat as shit with burberry and not farm in anything like that. Nate, it's been a pleasure to have you man. Dude, how big are you right now? You're pictures up from your gastoposing on the last episode. That front relaxed that like the my only response was like holy shit. You sent it back to me just the other day goes wow Nate looked really fucking awesome. It's from the last shot. That's probably when I was editing it because I grabbed that picture to put it up. That was fucking nuts man. That was great. Yeah, I'm just a pro so pretty like I'm like getting over 270 now. So, but pretty tight. I mean, I can still vacuum and my abs are still like pretty pretty good. I got a Christmas tree so it's not too bad. In the morning, in the morning he's got like glute lines a little bit still. Nice. Nice. And do you have do you have a plan? You do have a plan. You're doing because I think Andrew was telling us you're looking at early shows next year like the indie in New York, right? Yep. Yeah, indie in New York, first two stops. And then I mean, it depends how things go. But I mean, I was looking at like California and Puerto Rico maybe. Okay, just to make some, you know what I mean? I thought get like you guys see the world now. Go to Puerto Rico now. It's a right off, right? All right. It's right. In Andrew's like go to Puerto Rico. I've got a Puerto Rico too. Yeah, both of us. Yeah. Right. Let's cool. Skip. How's everything? What? Who? I was going to say I could probably talk Rachel and the doing it too. There you go, man. Oh. There we go. How are you going to do an intro? Maybe sick. Fuck, no. You should. Get to the end there. Do it. And skip your off the next one. You're off the task we've discovered. Yes, what's going on? Something I'm everything. Is there anything you need to talk about with us? Anything? You're ready? Okay. Well, I'm good now. Last week wasn't so good, but. Yeah. Just taking a break. It's behind the thing. Okay. Yeah, it's just time to share. I mean, you can probably see a little bit in my face too in my lack of sun and that sort of shit. But you're still doing this fuck. You know, they're okay. What's that? You still lean as fuck though. Yeah. I am here and I am here, but trust me, as it goes down this way. It's not as impressed. There you are. I appreciate it. I appreciate it again. But now I sent you some pictures. You should be like, oh, this one of the fucker. You died it for 20 weeks. Yeah. I wish I would have cut it a little bit sooner and changed gears. I just kind of ran it hard. I mean, I was having fun with it. It was relatively easy until about the last three weeks. And then I'm like, yeah, and then I had some things here that didn't go very well that I don't want to get into. Probably thing. So anyway, it was it's everything is just going to be. I appreciate you asking. And answer you're moving. You're you're you're going down to Florida. And that's all coming together for you. That's pretty cool. When is that move? I don't know yet. Like we're going to we actually sign on it tomorrow. And then. Nice. Yeah, I'm in love two places. So I don't know who probably I just want to get out of the cold. Yeah. And anything. I can't do cold. Yeah. I get the same time anymore. It fucking just kills me. And I realize that last winter. And you know, it's there's also got to be a life after bodybuilding. You know, I'm not going to be able to coach, you know, this many people forever. And I want to take some of those investments or some of the, you know, some of the, some of the things that bodybuilding is given me and invest in properties and whatnot. So I have a five and a ten year plan for nice, you know, having a retirement plan. I guess you want to call it. I like hearing that, man. I do. That's cool. All right, guys. Well, we appreciate everybody watching. Of course, if you have questions, comment below. Please comment with questions for the next show. You guys have been doing a great job. We'll be knocking out another couple episodes in a couple weeks. So if you don't hear your question here, I've got a couple things we're uploading still. So it may be on another episode. Stay tuned. If you don't hear it, they'll comment again because we, you know, I try to get to everything, but I don't always get to all your questions. Of course, go to our sponsors. Go to trunutrition.com. You guys are code, thank for some additional savings over there. Like I've said before, ask me if you have any questions about any of their supplements. I'd be happy to talk to you about them. Go to supplementsource.ca for those of you in Canada. Pretty work out. So I've seen for like 15 bucks. I mentioned Carmelin for like $30 off for really prices. You can't be it if you're in Canada plus they ship afterdren. Which you guys just take for granted anyway. It's like a miracle to me. As I mentioned before, Strom sports nutrition. You can shop with them and know that they support what we're doing. If you're in the UK, I'm sure you already know about Strom. They're one of the best health supplements over there. And of course, go to Patreon. You guys can reach out to everybody here for coaching. We all do coaching, believe it or not. The blood's what you're coaching, Q&A. Yeah. Go to team skip.com. You can reach out to skip there 20 years of experience. This guy's been doing it for a long time. We all have a lot of respect for you. You're going to be a great experience. Whether you think you believe it or not, sometimes when we're giving you a shit. You can go over to bodybarry.com. You can reach out to Andrew there for some coaching. Nate Instagram is the best way to hit you up, right? Yeah. Does that make it sphere? Nate, spirit. I'll have links to all this below and you can reach me. McNallydiance at gmail.com. We appreciate everybody watching. And guys, as I said before in the last episode, we did. I appreciate having this opportunity to hang out with you guys because I'm learning along with everybody else. So thank you very much for doing this show with me. Thanks. Always appreciate seeing you next time. See you guys. See you.

Hey everybody, welcome to