a lot different It wasn't a lot of love. We had like singing involved like Sega Genesis and BMX bikes we maybe 17 I don't know if that makes a difference we might have been seven. No, but go ahead So God there Things already on fire what's a little gas? Yeah, yeah So are we recording already? We are we bringing the car in where's the guitar? I need you to bring it in Ah Okay, it's being delivered today like career-wise. I just tracked it It should it should arrive today before noon, so it might actually come over on beer Ooh guitar. Vita arrives on the show. You're gonna open it while we're on unboxing guitar on that Yeah, that would be cool. Hey, I would do that. What is this kind of? I think we should Did you see any of my stories Scott? No, I haven't been online much. I think I didn't enough to dodge all my stories Yeah, I was watching all of those Yes, dude. I've been on it. I was actually fat. I'm curious because Nicky asked how much did it cost? It actually wasn't that expensive Like there aren't a lot of these I got a crazy deal. I I've seen a bunch of them online for like a fat up to a thousand dollars more But I only paid 15 or bucks for it Get out, but you're well, they're not people help you find them like from Facebook and Instagram and everything Oh, Scott's looking at the base I bought that's not what we're talking about That's not the one more. Okay. That's what I've seen right now Yeah, you kind of missed the you missed the boat on the stories They were okay days ago. What are we talking about? What's this guitar here? So I've decided to like dig my electric guitars out and start playing again because I just play and I flew around on my acoustic once in a while But I don't really play much anymore and I thought I want to get like good again So I got to dig up my electric because those are way funner to play yeah, and yeah, you know I'm in a condo now so I was like, wow, you know I have to play through headphones and stuff So I went and bought some like good headphones, you know I can plug into my amp and I can sit there and play and and I thought you know You know I wanted to I really want to hang my guitars up and I thought you know I've got room for like four guitars and I Don't you So I thought well I guitar what what I want and I thought fuck I know exactly what I'd want I want a 65 Jaguar Thunder Jaguar reissue Because that was like kind of Kurt Cobain's main guitar Yeah, during like the never mind cooler and it like a lot of the most famous photos of Kurt He's playing a 65 Jaguar that was his thing Yeah He bought it used it was just a fucking Frankenstein it had like everything changed that guts for change the pickups were changed It was like it was like a mutant fender Jaguar and It just became an iconic guitar and It's the only guitar I believe that is still in his estate. I believe his daughter now owns that guitar The rest of them were kind of sold his his blue my staying just sold for four point Five million at auction But one he used in the teen spirit video that he played on never mind on the album he played most of the album with it And the acoustic that he played on the unplugged concert Sold for six point five million about ten years ago Wow, so that's the most expensive guitar ever sold And then his black strap with the white bumper sticker on it That it's it's called the vandalism strap and the bumper sticker says says vandalism is as beautiful as a rock in a cop's face And and it's it's a bumper sticker that came in a punk rock album I can't remember the band But there was like an album that you bought in the 80s and it was like a punk rock album and I had that bumper sticker in it and he put it on his black strap That guitars in the hall of fame. I believe So anyways, I know a lot about his guitars, but I was wanted to 65 jacks So I went looking and like just you know people started messaging me hey look at this look at this And I wound up with a mint condition Cobain addition like I guess in 2011 fender made a certain number of them for their 20th anniversary and never mind And they made a bunch of Cobain additions where they had like the correct pickups and all the changes that he had made all the mods So it's like it's exactly what he would have played right Except it's mint condition, so that's cool. They also made a road worn one that looked worn out I don't I don't like those Because You need to wear out your own guitar. I don't know yeah, it makes sense that's not the point that's not the point You know what I mean Like I don't I don't get one people by pre-ripped jeans Literally just like I was brought in by in pre-ripped jeans and also to like I see the hats that are made to look like they're worn out Yeah, and I was think I Actually wore a hat out like that. I actually had a brim open on me from the people And I was like just to put you missed a pretender I'm actually Wear a router. I remember you telling us about that long time ago Maybe it wasn't even on this program was on the show. It was a And you told us about the like the demise of that how it eventually was gone Yeah, this disintegrated it came apart like pizza slices But you know what that's I actually get that because I actually I had a hat that That my first wife bought me when I was 16 and I was at a gym one time and it got was like man Where'd you find that vintage hat? I'm like 1997 when I bought it And it was brand new and wasn't vintage at all. I just wore it Oh my good old broontat wait a second. What's going on? Did Dustin just say did Dusty say first wife when you were 16? No, no, I was dating when I was 16. We got married Oh, I got really close there for a minute. I was fine. Okay. Okay. Yeah, yeah, no, it's stupid. I just want a child I want to put into them How how how mature it even made me feel like a Real adult having one of my best friends say first wife It just like on my call. It's like grown up things You know wrongs got guitars like I got wild funny. It's fine So yeah, I guess what episode are we Scott? It's 142 or something It's good for 143 actually You pretty sure I yeah, I put money on that 143 How much? 123 123 123 one Bitcoin one That's what I put on one Bitcoin. Yeah, yeah yesterday never mind Okay