work in sets on one of the like days and 11 work in sets on the second leg day. Okay, so the total sets, the total sets for the week, if we break down the week is 17, 71 work in sets. So that how many how many days are you training there this split per week three days on one day off. Okay, I got you. So essentially, your training volume isn't just your number of sets. Your training volume is your intensity. Your training volume is your range of motion. Your training volume is your proximity to failure. So how hard you train makes your training volume. So you have to understand this guys. The better execution, less sets you need. Harder your train, less sets you need. The better it's a self, less sets you need as well. More training frequency, more training frequency to the more often you train, less sets you need per session as well. I would even go as far as say that your biome isn't low still by any means. You know what I mean? No, but, but no set is taken past failure. Okay, stop every single set. The second I am unable to complete another rep without my execution Oh dude, we're going full circle. I think this was our first episode. Yes. Yes. You guys have to go back if you didn't see that one because you outlined exactly how you plan your training through the post site or excuse me, post contest into the off season into the contest again. So you're not doing any intensifiers that means right now. Are you still using machines over free weights for things like a pressing movement? Amazing questions. Amazing questions. Let's get stuck in. Okay. Right. No intensifiers all. I am not a fan of intensifiers because it doesn't actually give me a quantifier, but I have a progression. I track all my lifts with using a logbook. So I want to have consistency in tracking my data. If I am unable to progress my logbook, it will be down to either not being accurate with my volume or potential last other factors. However, I'm dialed in. So let's forget about that. Right. Nutrition, hydration, routine, sleep, everything point. Right. If everything is on point, my logbook will tell me if I'm doing too much volume because I'm not able to progress my lifts. If I am adding intensifiers just randomly, or if I'm adding intensifiers in general, there are a coverage demand that is placed on me. Doing the number of work and of sets that I have caught in my program would be too much. I could get away with doing drop sets or response sets and by the way, I only like response sets. I don't like drop sets. I don't like the idea of using less weight. So let's just say for sake of intensifiers. If I was to add response sets, I would need to lower my actual volume significantly. I would probably need to shave off four work in sets out of that each exercise. Sorry, out of the hits session. However, Scott, my argument then would be, I'm doing less sets. I'm doing more intensifiers for, I am already like pressing almost half a ton. Doing a response sound like press without much weight. Does it not make sense to just not do that as a pulse set and just do another set? Get the volume in without, here's the term I've been thinking of a lot lately is that every time we go to hard failure, we're smashing the CNS. Right. And so if you can get, I mean, every time we do a response, if we're doing like a traditional DC response, you are hitting failure, hard failure, hard, hard failure three times. Yeah, I'm all for this at this stage. I think that at other stages, man, I love response. Yeah, but guess what? If I do a response set, I'm not able to train with a frequency. I've got, I'm not able to train because I'm for me personally when I switch to three days on one day off with lower volume. Okay. It was like new beginnings again. I honest with the progress like I haven't done any years. I love it, dude. So, for me, pulse shell phase is all about setting your baseline with training. Yeah. No intensifiers, lower volume, lower intensity to the degree. It is your opportunity now to improve your training execution, improve your exercise setup, improve your skill. And it's all about setting yourself up for progression. So, I would always on side of caution when it comes to picking your loading. I would rather undershoot the weight than overshoot the weight. Keep your rep ranges between 7 to 12 reps. I think that's the best rep range for bodybuilding across the board. 7 to 12. A little bit less in the compound work, a little bit higher in isolation work. If I was to give you rough ranges. Okay. That is the rep ranges that I would like to set for all of you guys. That's what I think you will make the best progress and be able to most importantly keep your execution tight. If I was to tell you to get on a hot squat and tell you to do 12 perfect repetitions. Guess what? By the 7th rate rep, your execution is breaking down. You're not going to be able to have the gas tank to be able to complete them reps with perfect execution. And then guess what? If you're on a hot squat, trying to get 11 to 12 reps and your execution breaks down, that's when it just happened. So, picking appropriate rep ranges for appropriate exercises, isn't just about having productive progress. It's a safety measure. Sometimes actually training heavier in slightly lower rep range is actually going to keep you safer because the likelihood of you breaking down your execution in said lift is much lower when you only have 7 perfect reps to get in comparison to trying to get 12. Do you follow me? Okay. Yeah, I mean, I've got, I don't agree 100% honest, but I don't think we have to. Do you know what I mean? Tell me what you don't agree with. And we're kind of a second question. I'm okay with higher rep ranges in there. I'd be okay even taking it up to 20 to be honest. Depends on the individual, you know what I'm saying? Like exactly because for me to do 20 reps on a hot squat, I still need to pull a lot of weight on it. So the risk is just not worth it. Also, if I'm doing 20 reps on a hot squat, the CNS demand on that will be huge. And I'll give you an example on this. I did a set. The best set that I did for like higher rep work was 14 or 15 reps or six plates on the side of its hack. Okay. I was wrecked for like 10 days when I did that set. Yeah, you can get a lot out of each rep that you're doing, you know, and yeah, so I, it's higher in your company. It's just each rep period, you know, that's, you know what I'm saying? Let me just do a comparison of observation of mine. I did a seven-plate hack squat on the side X for five reps and I was able to train legs again in four, five days time. Okay. Yeah. And when I say you, I mean you specifically, like you were well trained. Yeah. You're getting a lot out of every rep probably more than a lot of our listeners. Absolutely, you know. Essentially, as someone's skill in training and intensity gets higher, I would always sit in slightly more appropriate ranges. I think higher at work does habits merit for isolation exercises mostly where you are going to be safer going in higher at ranges. And other reason why I am not fan of higher at work post show is simply you don't have enough fuel to facilitate that sort of right away. Rep range. That's a great point. You are just not being enough food. You are just not being enough food. You are just not being enough food, yeah. And guess what, post show, you are still not fully recovered to be able to actually go into those higher rep ranges. So you need to understand that working appropriate rep range is going to facilitate your training recovery and facilitate your ability to progress at that moment in time. And guess what, if you nail down your nutrition, your rate of gain, your training volume, your drugs out, post show, I truly believe even in that phase you have an opportunity to be able to gain some muscle. Oh yeah. Yeah, I think it's totally possible. Is that anything of a risk? Or have we just covered it like, talks about it now? I think that was pretty solid. I think that was good. If anybody has questions though, you guys comment, let us know. Absolutely. If I have missed anything, guys, I apologize. And if I have missed anything, comment below and mean Scarlet will definitely cover it. So what's the next subject? You were going to go over, well, you were talking about your setup individually. Did we cover all of that? Yeah, so 400 tests, 100 pre-move, 10 news of GH, 10,000 steps, 10,000 steps daily, my current calories on training day. And I've actually probably gone to bump them higher because I actually dropped weight. Yeah, like I told you, it's Thursday now, so I've been on Plans since Monday, the show was in Sunday. And I've actually dropped weight down to two foot. So I stepped to the stage at 242 Sunday morning. And my weight came down to 241.5 Monday, 241.7 Tuesday, 241.3 Wednesday. And today, I actually came down to 240. And my current diet is training day, 4,300 calories, 337 grams of protein, 638 grams of carbs, 54 fat. Rest day is 3,464 calories, 348 protein, 396 carbs, 54 fat. So I'll be honest, both days training day and rest day are probably going to need at least 200 calories. So I'll probably go an extra 40 carb and maybe 5, 5 to 10 fat, both days. Okay. Is there anything else? I've got to train it. I have an eye. Yeah, I think I've got to train it. What I'm doing training was. Yeah, training recap, pull push likes, 13 working sets on pull days, 12 working sets on push days, 11 slash that work. And that's on the light days. Let me ask you this. So moving forward, you know, obviously you're thinking about what the next phase is going to be. You said they'll be like this five to six week break before you begin your off season. And you know, maybe we can read dress then, but do you have an idea on how training is going to change when you hit that stage? Oh, or is that something where you have to get through this to first see, you know what I'm saying? Great question. See, when you start with somewhat null of volume that you used to, it gives you an opportunity to actually increase your volume. It's much easier for someone to increase that volume than the crease that volume isn't it? Yeah. So as my food and gear comes up, my volume may increase, but it wouldn't be an extra free full working set. So I wouldn't go from 12 working sets to 15 working sets. I would literally add in one working set procession. Okay. So on push day, I would take my volume to 13 working sets. On pull day, I would take my volume to 14 working sets. On light day, I would take my volume to 11 slash 12 working sets. And the addition of the volume would be to my weaker areas only. So where I will add the volume will be one extra set of artwork, one extra set of chess work, one extra set of court work. Okay. Done. And then I add one working set. I go through a training block of six to seven weeks. I assess the progression. If all lifts are still moving up, guess what? If I'm going to cover you well, I may add it over set. Again, add in it to the areas that I need most. Yeah. So your training volume can increase. However, it all depends on the feedback that I get with my recovery and my love book. Right. Yeah. Okay. That makes sense. That makes sense. And that's something I think too. It'll be kind of cool to revisit that down the road, you know, six, eight weeks from now. We're going to definitely do that. And like we're going to set a reminder that eight weeks time because if they weeks time, I will be in my push-up. So we can do like a reminder or where my food is and where my training volume is and how I've made the progressions and what to do in case they're in trouble shooting and how to actually take it there. Now, my suggestion on how to increase your calories, guys, is I am 242 pounds. So for me, to make a difference in my calorific intake to get the needle moving forward, I need at least 200, 250 calories added to get me moving forward. If you are 150 pound female watching this, you do not need 250 calories added. You probably don't need 150, 100 to get the needle moving. If you're a 190 pound bodybuilder, guess what? Same again. You probably don't need 30 grams of carbs adding and you're going to move again. And again, 30 grams of carbohydrates is what 30 times 4. That's 120 calories. Right? You are better off going slower than faster. Both with the changes that you make and with your rate of gain. Because guess what? You take your food up by 400 calories. You're probably not going to pull it back. But you're probably game 4.5 pounds quicker than you would have and should have. Yeah, yeah, and you can't undo the fat as easily in an hour and you get it. And guess what? If you add the 120 calories and you don't see any movement, add it over 100. It's much easier to go slower because then you have more control over the rate of gain as well. And to me, it's just more logical to do it as opposed to just making a change. That's a huge change. I do prefer to make especially after and that's an of one. Post show, right? You will make multiple changes at one time. It will be a reduction of cardio, a reduction in drugs and increasing calories. It's a multitude of changes that then put you in a calorie surplus. Once you have made that change, I would always out on side of caution when it comes to making changes and I would always prefer to try to stick to making at least one to two changes at a time. So the next change that you make, if your cardio expenditure is still high, lower only expenditure. Yeah, the next change that you make only add a little bit more food. Go step by step. So you can actually see what's making the difference and what's actually moving the needle forward with your progression. Is it the food? Is it learning expenditure? Is it training volume? Doctrine may call the change the once. Be patient. Being that's a huge, huge thing people lack, especially the post show. You're not looking to grow tons of muscle. That post show window is preparing your body for lift off. You gain healthy. You're signing up your training. You're signing up your execution. You rebuild your food. You're rebuilding your social life. You're sleep. All of these things that are going to help you essentially make more progress on the side. Yeah, yeah, take care of your bills. Take care of your house. All of those things too. The things that, you know, we try to be 100% but you get closer to the show. Some of those things slip. I've got a question for you and I think this might trigger you. We talked about this on it's just bodybuilding with you before. But this came up with a client today. I think about six weeks out right now. We addressed his caffeine intake. It is very close. He's struggling with sleep. He trains later in the day. He already knows. He doesn't need the lecture. We talked in depth this morning. Here's a thing, man. He's in this place now where we can't just pull it all out and stop. It's kind of too late that boat that ship has kind of sailed to reset everything. You know what I'm saying? So we're tapering it back, working damage control. But my concern is that he's in the state right now getting insomnia and he's always dealt with sleep issues that I think that the cortisol is like he's in the early stages of adrenal fatigue. And we can get through this prep managing that. But I've seen it happen. In fact, I've seen it happen recently of somebody who had a real struggle with bringing those doses down at Stimbs. First, I would order what caffeine sources he's using and I would only switch the caffeine on Lee coffee, just coffee. But to be honest, in his case, I would actually make him take three days of training and I would make him go cold turkey. So the only way now for him to get back on track is taking days off. Three days complete rest. Bring his calories back to maintenance. So he has the energy to be able to not rely on the caffeine. If he enjoys the caffeine, switch to decaffeinated sources. So the have to decaffe coffee to keep him going. And I would also order soft drinks. Again, I've done a lecture on my YouTube on caffeine intake and I've done a separate in depth lecture for my mentorship and my clients on caffeine intake because people often forget that there's actually caffeine and stuff like diet coke. And people drink in a leech of that coke before a badge. And it's like, yes, you drink in a lot of caffeine that may. So you told me, I want to step you back even before that. Let's go to the beginning of prep. You know, at the end of the day, caffeine is a performance enhancing drunk. Like there has been studies to show man, you get increased performance. We're in I was thinking about it this morning. This is like some early morning waking up thoughts today. We don't want to, we don't want to sacrifice performance as we are dieting into a show. And we want to do anything we can to keep pushing and it's very easy then to get caught in that trap, especially with like the popularity of pre-workouts, the availability, energy drinks, all of that. So what would you say is a good regimen going into the prep with when it comes to over-the-counter stems or just stems in general? I don't use stems that is wrong. Zero stimulants and general law. My energy levels can prep. We're great until about 4 p.m. and 4 p.m. that's when I was and that's something I've noticed with clients as well. The second I remove all stimulants and I do that before prep. And I always do that with most clients that are first they come as a scale they're different back. The drugs that caffeine intake everything. I don't use stimulants. I just use straight caffeine, straight coffee and pump products. And then I do use new tropics as well. If needed. Okay. Yeah. I don't use stimulants at all because the cost to benefit isn't worth the trade off, especially for guys that are stronger and bigger. The neurological drive that they get from stimulants is counterproductive for them. One, they overshoot and end up over training and over stimulating themselves in the gym, which then impacts the training recovery, impacts the fat loss because fatigue so high and then again sleep is in the bin. So again, fat loss just gets worse and worse. And what is the golden prep? The goal is sustain and training performance. And the goal is making sure that a sleep stays protected. It doesn't matter how much caffeine intake. If your sleep is in the bin, there's no amount of caffeine, no amount of drugs, no amount of all else, no amount of trend that's going to save you. Yeah. So I essentially scale back the intake of caffeine and I switch everyone over onto just caffeine. No monsters, nothing like that. And the difference that I noticed in the general sustained energy levels throughout day is huge. And yes, you do get a performance benefit from caffeine. However, all of the studies show anything above 200 or 200 or 250 milligrams in one hit is actually counterproductive. It's a lot, man. So a 200 milligrams is it's not though. It's four shots of espresso. That's a lot. People are doing it, but it's a lot. People drink it constantly. So it's definitely something that I ordered. As a reference point, in terms of caffeine intake, free to five milligrams per kilogram of body weight. I think it's a sweet spot. And if that's still in the higher side. Yeah. All right. Yeah. I'm good with that. I think that's good. I had one other question related to that topic. I can't remember what it was off hand. But I had seen both sides of it. And I had seen both sides of it in my own preps, man. And I can tell you that over-stimming by the end, that's where I felt the most fatigued by the end of the prep. And definitely, man. It's like, I know a guy who has Hashimoto's and he doesn't produce cortisol. He literally can't get up out of bed in the morning until he takes his prescription cortisol. And you can drive yourself to that place. I think a lot of the issues we run into in our preps with fatigue are related to because we want to, we don't want to take our foot off the gas. So we hit the button instead of it's just accepting where we're at. You know. Paul fatigue management ended a day like in that instance when someone's already overdoin the stems. The only way to get him fixed is complete rest. Coward is at maintenance, free days rest, resetting him. And then guess what? After that, he will feel so much better. And I can probably put money on it. He'll probably lose weight from eating more and resting. And yeah, in a look matter. He's probably inflamed. It's probably super fatigued. He's probably not sleeping. First day of higher food and no caffeine. He's going to sleep like a baby. Especially if you give him a little bit more carbohydrates before bed. Lights out. Lights out. Good night. Yeah. It's a, there's a lot going on there. So I won't get into it too much for all that. I know we had, we had talked about that before and it's just bodybuilding with you. So I was like, I want to get to Cuba talking about that. Hey, listen, there's one other thing I did have to ask you about. So you said you only train your training right now. You explained your breakdown. You're like, I'm doing two sets of biceps on one bicep. Why are you only training one bicep, Cuba? And why are there people saying get well soon, man, in the comments here. It's be recovery. I, uh, I told my brockalis, partially told my brockalis tendon posing on stage on my first round of comparisons in Germany. God. So, but check this out. I contacted Ali Nirani that day. Monday at 4 p.m. I was on the flight home. Tuesday, I was in London at his office at 11 30. By 5 p.m. I had an MRI of my right shoulder, my whole right arm. I had an x-ray of both of my shoulders. I had a consultation with him. And his radiologist already gave him the breakdown of what she saw in the ultrasound. The following morning, he was on the phone to me, already given me a lowdown of what's going on, saying look, is 90% show main on surgery, but he doesn't want to complete the rule it out. He's going to let me know and review everything I sat. But he's been keeping in touch with me, keeping me calm. So, I essentially have been doing rehab work on my right arm already. Okay. All the peptides on the growth obviously. So, listen, shit happens. I'm fortunate enough to be able to train still. And it's not the first time. I mean, I've got an ingio of recialis because I actually got stabbed in my left arm in 2017, free weeks out. And I still managed to make the show and I trained through it. So, you told us that story one long time. No, maybe you told me that story off the air once. That's what it was. Yeah. So, there is no real, like you can't really see it, but you can see it on the ultrasound MRI where there's a rupture to the tendon. But locally, both my bicep tendons are perfect. So, there's zero damage to the actual bicep tendon. It's literally just a brachialis tendon rupture. So, a partial tear of the brachialis tendon MRI. And I did it doing a more muscular. That's crazy man. That's so good. And you knew it the minute you hit it. You're like, oh, shit, this is bad. I felt a pop. Yeah, I felt a pop. And that wasn't the first round comparisons. I had to then come off stage and do my individual. So, I did main individual with it already as well. But then I came off stage. When it first happened, I nearly passed out. Like, I felt like my feet nearly went away from under me. Like, you know, that gut feeling you get, like, when your stomach drops, I felt sick. I was like, fuck, my arm. I don't know what's happened. And you know, you get worse than another straight away in your head. Yeah. I did main individuals. Meck came over after and she was like, what's up? Because she could tell something was wrong. I was like, I think I've just fought my arm. I was like, what do I do? What do I do? Do I go back out? Like, what do I do? And I've got straight to the ambulance. I was going to a hospital that day. But he would have just been a waste of time. Instead, I got in contact with him that day. Massive Charlotte Tobacco, who's like, I would have systemed. She next day, she was on the phone, sort of, in an out from me as well. So all the point when I finished with set. So yeah. And literally, Monday night, that night, Dave actually had some peptides as well. Yeah, left over. And I message Dave straight away. I was like, Dave, what's the best protocol? blah blah blah, I was like, okay, put that in. So locally, I had some BPC and TB 500 already. But again, I'll be peptides and perform effect tides, both semi-care packages. So I'm all peptide up. So peptides are going nice. So yeah, we're going to be good to go. Guys, I'm going to stick man. I'm going to start. Right. Let's get out of here. Hi, Pope. Oh, shit. Let's get out of here. Real quick. We're done with this thing. Anyway, guys, reach out to Cuba for coaching. You can follow his YouTube. I've got all that stuff linked below. Of course, thank you to everybody from Patreon. Leave us questions for the next show. And Cuba, man. I do it. I'm glad you're in one piece, brother. I'm glad you're going to get through this without any problems. I'm sure 20 freaking pounds plus on stages in absolutely incredible feet to have gained in one year, man. Like, I don't know if people who don't compete can't realize how big that is. And I'm looking forward to seeing you do it again, man. Guys, we'll leave back again soon with a number of one and we'll go into anything you need in depth. And hopefully we'll get some great questions up the back of this one that we can call up. And I'm pretty sure we've got some questions from last one as well that we do need to call us. So it might be a bit more of a Q&A episode. So guys, thank you so much. And we'll get to see you again soon.

I met, like, I thought I'd train hard, like, you know, five, ten years ago. And at that time, I was in my mind, and, you know, for CBLY, I was training hard. But that me from back then, trying to do a workout from today, it wouldn't be the same. Yeah. Yeah. And I think it takes time to build up that ability to push yourself that far. Hey, everybody. Welcome to It's Just Body Building. Go, co-host, dusty hand shots, coming out of your producer. And, guess today, rough diesel, Terence Ruffin, what's going on, man? Hey, you guys doing? Thanks for having me. Um, nice pretty busy. I got a new puppy here. He's, you didn't want to be left alone. So what exactly you got there? How big is he going to get? Not big. This is a mini Australian Shepherd. Oh, wow. Oh, wow. Oh, wow. Oh, wow. Amazing. Those are high energy dogs, aren't they? It's not, yeah, my wife, she, she is the high energy one. Oh, yeah. Good. She'll do the walking then, and all of that. I'm sure. Yes. Well, it's a dog friendly show. We have, we have many dogs on many laps on this show. So it's all good. We welcome the dog edition. Remember everybody like share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. There you go. And remember podcast is sponsored by mutants who go to imutin.com and use my code, Bigron 20 or dusty 20 and get yourself 20% off. Okay. So you're one of the few people who's been on the show twice now. Really. Yeah. That's good to have you. Good to have you. For some reason when Ron and Dusty have someone on there, like, well, we already had them on. We're done. We do have now. Yeah. Yeah. All the news. Some one's called. Yeah. So I should be good. Yeah, a lot's changed since a lot. Yeah. Yeah. So I know you wanted to talk some about business today, and I'm looking forward to hearing that because I know you've been really invested in that. Before we did, I wanted to ask about the Olympia and, you know, what happened there, what did you take home from that? And what does that mean for your direction and body building moving forward? Because I know you're not doing the Arnold this year, right? Right. So, um, no Arnold this year. Basically, you know, I felt like I've been in this situation before where I've kind of hit this, this, this, this new level of, um, of competition, you know, my career. And then I'm there for like a moment and then I kind of dropped that back down a bit. You know, same reason I took off in 2019 was because I moved from 96 places and then back down the ninth place. I'm kind of, I would say like, um, not used to it, but I'm aware of like this good app. Yeah. Yeah. And it doesn't really bother me all that much because, you know, if you follow about it building, you know, for a number of years, you'll see people throughout the career kind of go up and go down and go up and go up and go up and go up and go running, curry, ramen, hotly chew pie. You know, Mr. Olympia is at this point in all of them have placed all of the place throughout the career. It is, you know, so it doesn't really bother me all that much. It does kind of, you know, I'm obviously pissing the moment like all of a shit, you know, you never want to do worse than you did before, but as in terms of like career wise and what I'm capable of, it doesn't really change a whole lot. Right. But basically, you know, after any show that I do, I like to go back and look at photos and see, you know, where I can improve and what can be done to elevate my physique at the next show. And it's a little weird for me, you know, normally I like to listen to the judges, and I'm aware that each judge is going to have a different opinion. When I spoke to one of them, they said, okay, you need to show up tighter at the night show. So, you know, that was all I did that unfortunately, I don't think the night show was judged. So, but after looking at photos, I was pretty on par with my showing last year at the Olympia, even maybe a tab at better. Okay. Personally, I think the biggest difference was a lot of the guys were growing a lot quicker than me, which is typically the case. You know, so moving forward, I want to get a little bit bigger. And obviously, the bigger I get, you know, with the weight limit that tighter I have to be regardless. Yeah. And I'm back. I'm improved later this year. Cool. Yeah, because you know, I'm like the biggest fan of you. You're my favorite class at guy. I always tell everybody that. And I was concerned personally because I was like, oh shit, I hope that this doesn't like knock you that you didn't do as well. Because you, I mean, you're an Arnold champ now, you know, and it's like, to like you said, you always want to try to at least stay where you were. And I think that that sounds like a, I don't know, it sounds like a great perspective to me. Because I feel like the great thing about bodybuilding competition is it gives us a catalyst outside of ourselves that will make us strive to do better than we had before, you know, and I feel like that that excites me that to see that what it sounds like you're saying is you're going to use this to come back even better. You're a young guy, you know, and you've got plenty of room on the scale. Like, what did you come in at weight wise and what is your, your cap? So it's confusing. I think they should do something about the weight limit, but I'm right at that height where, um, but like, depending on the show, I can be a different different, you know, I can have a different weight cut off. So the past three shows my weight cut off has been 180, which is like five, five and one fourth. Okay. This was the first year in two and a half years where it was less, it was lower back down to 175. So, oh, really. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I mean, personally, I would love it if they would measure it height as once. Yeah, we got us if I was 175 or 180, just so people, you know, kind of know what they're walking into, you know, the day the show instead of weighing it in and then having to run up and down the escalator for like, you know, 10, 20 minutes. Yeah, but I'm just going to go into it with the belief that you know, 180 still my cut off. And if that's the case, then I have about like five pounds of tissue that I can add, but I've seen a lot of that suck down a lot of heart and especially when you're an amateur ain't, you know, trying to make a weight, you know, for a different high, you know, different weight class and bodybuilder. Yeah, people dropped in 15 pounds easy. Oh yeah. Yeah, I could see that. So did that happen here? Did you end up needing to pull down last minute for this show? Yeah, I was on the escalator. I said, yeah, the room jogging up, jogging up the escalator. Yeah, how did I miss that guys? I was there. I feel like I needed to be there. I would have been like your, you know, rocky coach. I would have stood. It was fun. The standards. The standards. Next to you. I just been like, go, tear, go. Yeah, yeah. So I had to do that this year. That makes sense. Yeah. Did you, did anybody see you? Was there anybody who was like, oh my god, that's Terrence Ruffin? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, people were walking up and down the escalator. I was asking them, you know, hey, you know, excuse me, excuse me. We're going to run away of the escalator. Just sit on it like his bare master. Yeah, so a lot of people, a lot of people saw. That's amazing, man. How did they not hear this until now? So, yeah, anyway, and feel free to jump in around her dusty. Any time you guys had something, I just can keep talking though. I guess so from there, I just want to ask you training wise then, because I know that, you know, we had talked a lot about training a couple years ago. And I would love to hear your perspectives on it now, because I know that, you know, to one two years, that's a long time to develop. Can you tell us a little bit about your philosophy, like going into growing several pounds of muscle on, you know, and advanced physique? Like, what is your philosophy going to look like? Right now, we're just in a health phase. Training is actually pretty low. Lower than it's, honestly, I've been, you know, guys like Ronnie and all of those guys will just take months off. I'm not a fan of that. I'm not in a position. They do something like that either, but I'm changing just three times a week right now. Monday, Wednesday, Friday, push full legs. And on leg day, we do some arms as well, since that's kind of a weakness in mind to keep those up. And since, you know, cause are pretty much a strength, so they don't need to tone up. They don't need much volume at all to be honest. Outside of that, though, this time I really, I really want to be very meticulous in, like, tracking things, you know, they make sure things are working in progress and, like, they need to. So, um, a lot of the same things, you know, progressive overload, you know, just pushing the weight as much as I can, really. Um, and not only that, just making sure I'm really connected to the muscle as well, and the past. I've been a little bit more focused on just moving the weight up and down, and at the same time where I have on the surface good form. Intention, like what I'm going to turnly isn't quite where I want to be. So really focusing on things like that, like those really subtle cues that you can't typically see, you know, a person doing, but you can feel if you're doing it yourself. Mm-hmm. Um, and, but the matrix I'm tracking, you know, I've been tracking, you know, my, you know, my body fat, my lean, I'm lean mass with the depth of scan that I want to entail luckily. Nice. Um, some, some circumference measurements, and, um, just just tracking everything I can, you know, just to make sure that I'm putting on muscle where I need to be. And, um, what I'm doing is actually working. I've never done that in all seasons. I'm tracking all this stuff. I'm doing it. Doing a prep, um, University of Tampa. They had a case study, um, two years in a row where they tracked my, tracked all this stuff with me during a prep, which is pretty cool. Uh, uh, uh, don't lose any muscle in front, which is nice. Um, I've always put on muscle a bit slower, so I wanted to kind of see how things work on that. Yeah. What are some exercises that, because I know you're very specific with what you're doing in the gym. I know you're volume me said your volume isn't very high right now. So you're, you're picking obviously like real bang for your buck exercises I'm assuming. Yeah. Um, what, um, body part, I mean, it depends. So like, uh, with with legs, I typically do like hacksquat. So, um, we had RDOs and but I just, some reason my body aches and like I always, something my so as always starts to pull like I pull it like every time. Um, this last prep I pulled it and I couldn't like get myself off the couch without, um, help for like two weeks. So I just kind of gave up on RDOs. Um, but you know, I know I do have to see it, uh, let curl, um, leg press and, um, leg extension back will do, uh, like a chess supporter row with the arms wider for upper back will do a T-barrow with arm right for less. Um, and then we get a bit of that, um, that bracing in that, and that lower back since I can't do those hip-hand movements. That's kind of way for the work I erected. Um, we've actually been doing pull ups. I haven't, I've never really, um, had pull ups in a program, but, um, it's been working out okay recently. Uh, and I've been able to progress just with my body weight going up post show. So that's been nice. Um, arms will do like just preach a curls will do J.M. um, presses, um, chest, just enormous pressing movements will do, uh, inclined press, the fly, a really high inclined press as well for show to the dose upper chest. Um, things like that. Yeah. So just, like, what reason I'm, I'm enjoying your list. And it's because, you know, I, I'm all about, I mean, we talk about it on the show here bang for your buck exercises, right? Being efficient in the gym, you know, picking stuff that you can truly overload target muscles with, you know, I know there's, there's, there's a lot of exercises out there. And when you talk to like the really high level guys like yourself, it's hacks presses. Preach occur. Oh, it's funny, it's funny. Especially like hamstrings and stuff that like, what's the best exercise on hamstrings? I'm like, there's only like three real movements. Like, why do you mean, you know, I mean, like, what do you mean, just do all of them? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, with, you know, if you need something, when you need something fancy for instance, to grab. Yeah. I think, and then, and then you do have the odd thing like I know, Joe's big on like, you know, set in the bench up for certain shoulder cable raises. Yeah. Yeah. You know, which looks fancy, but in reality, you're finding like the most basic lines of movement. Like you're, you're, you're just using a really nice set up because you got the adjustable pulleys. You can set it up just perfect. But at the end of the day, it's, you're doing a very basic movement in a very, very natural pattern. You know, there's nothing weird about it. I think sometimes people get too hung up on like, what's going on and like around the body. When they should be, you know, focus on what the body is actually doing, what the movement is like, you're still just raising your arm at the end of the day, you know, Yeah. It's not, we said, it's not super complicated. You just, you know, line things up in a really nice way. I want to ask you the way that you do people tend to think it's got to be more exact because you look at like just, you know, I mean, it's funny because your, your physique is literally looks like it was built with a scalpel. Like every muscle is exactly where it's supposed to be just sharp enough. I know like you, I had to laugh like you were like, my arms are weak and I'm like, I'm like, well, I mean, I know what you mean, like a comparison, but yeah, it's why people want to complicate it with someone like you because they really do look and say, he must be doing, there's no way he's just doing hack squats. My quads don't look like that. You know what I mean, there's, there's, and it's also how you execute a movement like you said earlier, it's like, you know, this is something that I go or because I've been getting really into because of wrong, honestly, into real slow negatives, there's a lot of stuff, but there is a point where you're just slowing down the weight, you're not slowing it down with your quads. So you have to like remind people that you don't know what I mean, it's finding that line, which I'm sure you're doing a negative or whatever it is, but what is providing that slow because if it's your hips, it doesn't matter. I just go faster, you know what I mean? So I think that that's probably why, because even people who are in the know, we want to believe you're doing something special so we can pretend that we could actually look like that, it makes us feel better. You know it's crazy, though, like, it's simple, but then I see every now and again, like, what, what Chris did with his bag, what Michaela did with her legs, what people just know are just what we're doing, and it's really cool to see, like, you know, I kind of got like a first and view on what Michaela did and like, she just trained legs, she almost trains like a wellness athlete now. It's pretty crazy where it's like legs three times a week, almost no upper body, you know, it's pretty crazy. And I've said it before, it was like genetics. Sometimes you just, like, you can pitch your genetic, you know, half or lemon is like a door. And you know, you can be doing something not going to do for years, but if you don't have the right key, you can't unlock that door. And then, you know, Michaela has been lifting 10 years or so, and then she finally finds that right key, the unlocked that leg, you know, her leg genetics, and then it just blows, she just, you know, explodes. And now she's like, top five and the world out of nowhere. Right. It's really crazy. Is that what you're saying? We've talked about Michaela's sets many times, does these brought it up many times. And, you know, it's funny how we use the, we say, oh, she blew her legs up out of nowhere. But then if you stop and think about it, watching her sets, it's not out of nowhere. It's like she's doing it, doing these sets that most people cannot strain together. Like I say that I say everyone can train super hard today, but to train the way she trains tomorrow and the day after and the day after. And then next week for legs again and then Wednesday again and then Thursday again and Saturday again and leg pressing again. Like, the stringing that together. That's what that's what builds these like ridiculous physique that, you know, we're seeing at your level. It's just a consistency and the ability to do it over and over and over again. You know, do you, do you ever, like, I was training yesterday and I had a bit of a quad injury. So I just went in and did hamstrings and I was, you know, working on my hips in between sets and trying to stretch out my cold, odd, you know, you're, you're, you're not at your, you're best, you know. And I thought, ah, I'm not training that hard today. And then I kind of laugh and I'm like, wait a minute, I've done six sets to absolute failure with perfect form. My hamstrings are completely encouraged with blood. Like they're just swollen. I can't even bend my leg 90 degrees. But it's just that we're so used to performing high quality sets that it's, it's not hard for us to do that. Now you just, like, flip the switch and it, to us it almost seems like we're just training like, you know, that's what I'm training. So I'm training, you know, that's what I'm training. But, you know, that's what I'm training. So I'm training. So I'm training. So I'm training. But, but the average person that, that would be like a completely mental hamstring workout. They'd be sore for like weeks, you know. Yeah. So like, the way that we perceive things is sometimes, you know, it takes somebody to watch from outside and be like, man. This is, you know what I mean? Like we just get so. No, I know exactly what you mean. You know, another thing I like to think about is it kind of tastes Tom to get there. You know, like, that doesn't, you like, I met, like I thought I'd train hard like, you know, five ten years ago. And at that time, I was in my mind and, you know, for CBLE I was training or but that me from back to And trying to do a workout from today, it wouldn't be the same. Yeah. And I think it takes time to build up like that, that ability to push yourself that far, you know. Yeah. It's like, it's a good news. It's the, um, not for you because I feel like you're so advanced. If you were trying to describe to someone who's trying to get where you are, how do you get yourself in the mental space before every set? You know, you hear that, like from your clients, I'm sure you had an off day, and it's like so off. I'm like, well, where is your head? Like, I don't really have this, how is it that that's what I'm saying? Like, how did, like, it shouldn't happen. So, like, is there a way that you suggest to your clients, like prior to a set or prior to a work out of both to make sure they're in there to do work and really locked in? It's tough, man. I feel like I may be sober move from like, what an, like, an everyday person may be going through. Like, because, you know, I wake up. I eat breakfast and I go straight to the gym. Like, I have that luxury in life. I don't, like, my whole life is kind of focused on body building. So, even when I get questions like, how do you go to the gym? We cannot motivate it. What I'm like, well, if I don't go, then I don't know. I don't have a roof over my head. You know, that's motivation. That's motivation. Yeah. Yeah. So, it's like, it's like a job. The same way someone, you know, you may not want to go do your job, but you want to, to eat, you want all these other things, so you, you know, you go because there's a reason. There's a big enough priority, you know, to go. But when it comes to, to like, every, like, going in the gym and, you know, pushing a set. One, I think having a training for it has been very, very helpful. Like, I'm not going to waste your time in sandbag ever in the gym, you know? I'm having that accountability is always helpful. But I really typically don't need a whole lot at this point. Like, I think I've been able to, like, it's kind of like, if I started this game, but, um, we've had a really, really hard experience. And then you, you move on from that experience and nothing in life is quite as hard, you know, or you can do with that obstacle, any obstacle on that level pretty easily from that point. So, you know, once you've had enough horror sessions in the tank, I think, that, you know, really have to think about, like, having, for me at least, I don't have to think about turning a switch on anything like that. When I get into, when I get into another machine, when I get on the bar, just, just easy. I just know what to do, you know? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. That's a tough question. That for me. It's a tough question in general. You know, it's a question we ask of the podcast all the time. It's like, we've never been able to truly answer, you know, what is intensity? How do you turn it up? It's, you can teach somebody how to train, but, you know? My thing is, like I said earlier, it's the skill, so like, I don't expect the person to be, you know, first time, or even the first couple of times in a gym to be able to do what I do, what I would want for them to do is to be a little better each time they hit the gym. You know, because eventually they'll get there. If you're better each and every single time, then eventually you're going to be able to hit, it says to feel like, like that. You know, every single time you hit the gym, you know? I wanted to ask you, um, what did you think? I mean, you know, in hindsight, what did you think of how Bum's dead looked this year? I think he looked great. I think he grew a lot. I think that was another big, I don't know what the numbers are. If you, you know, anything like that, but I think he looked great. I know he had to buy a sub-endry. It wasn't really noticeable to be honest with you. Luckily, his buy sells weren't that great to begin with, so having an injury wasn't a big deal. So, yeah. But not funny, because I actually just thought, I just thought his buy steps looked a little bigger, but I didn't, and the shape, and you know, the shape was just, I just thought, ah, you know, but there wasn't anything weird about his arms. You know what I mean? So, you just, as one of those things, it didn't really matter. I think he might have, I think, uh, conditioning wise. I think how he bought him, he'd probably, um, a little better than Ian did, but I, you know, I totally understand that with Ian competing at the Olympian, also trying to prep someone at the Olympian, and it could be, you know, really difficult and it's just for both of them. So they did, they did okay. They did okay as a pair. Yeah. What, what, what, how did you feel, you know, um, obviously you weren't, obviously you didn't get the result you were looking for. But how did you feel about how the fans and everyone had your back after, and, you know, you still had your support and, and all that stuff? I mean, how did you feel after the show when, when you got the kind of the love from everybody and the feedback and all that stuff? No, I thought it was great. You know, going into the show, I was a little nervous, you know, each and every show you're a little nervous, you know, with stuff like that, how are things going to go. If things don't pan out the way you want them to. And, um, I just had to kind of have faith in the people around me that it wouldn't change much. And I'm real big on like, looking at, I'm a big history both. So like, I look at guys like, you know, Dexter Jackson who was, you know, he, one, one, and, you know, never one won again, but people still love them, you know, people still call them a blade. So, and even if you look at guys like, you know, you're not going to have a brain where he never won a title, but arguably he was more popular than, you know, most miscellaneous, you know, in history. So I didn't, that would affect me too much. Um, it's definitely gold amount of win. Um, I definitely want to do that before I'm done, but, you know, you never know how your journey is going to go, you know. Is there any carryover? How do I word this? So, for example, watching Clarita win the 212, when he's technically the smallest guy. Do you, do you find any motivation or any sort of like, spark in that your, that your, your in classic in your kind of, the smallest framed guy, and, and there's a lot of parallels there. Does that motivate you like I can win this? You know, it's funny. Uh, I was a big fan of shot even before I turned for. I remember, I was one of fanboys asking on men's deans. I was like, hey, how do you get sponsors? You know, so I've always been a fan of, of shine. Um, and to be quite honest with you, like it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's put on both Socied a sea SRCNF PARYPE right off the bat tart. the the d on theOKa had nice, but . that we know now that we see again, celebrations that are dying pretty much off splashy all of this. But also on the open, i'm, it's , but still i still get comments every day. You know i didn't realise, that I was the shortest guy I could like, I'm fair for shorty guys and I'm like no, I mean you got guys like I'm you know I won the Arnold twice I've placed second at the Olympics twice it's not I would how was that unfair literally every other person that has who isn't first place Has lost to me. How would it be unfair? You know how is it unfair when you got Marka Rita winning all these shows? You got how do you now one of the shortest miscellaneous ever? You know, I don't I get tired of people I don't like a victim of it or a victim mentality. You know, I think you should believe that anything is possible. You know What are some of the things that you think people can do to help their mentality in that way? Let's say someone You know, we all know we all know those people. They're they're they're good people. We'd like to see them do well But every time we talk to them they've got something that they're really complaining about like there's this obstacle They have in their head, you know like all well, you know if I wasn't this height, you know, I might be able to do like they're they're starting from that Point they've got they've got the the hurdle is like built into the front end of their goal and You know what I mean like a great What do you say to people to just change that narrative like get that out of your head like You know what I mean? I don't know. I mean you must have had to have done a bunch of that I think the easiest way just and like If we look at like human is or the easiest way to get over something like that It's a look back and see if it's been done before you know every time in the sport the first time someone does something Then everyone starts to do a weather was you know track or basketball or whatever sport it may be anytime someone's the first it very quickly It's kind of like the norm you know to be able to do that that that You know, so I would say that's the first thing I'll start at that man. I think very because I think of like things like What can someone do like what's that actionable thing someone can do and? I highly believe that like just like we train our our bodies we need to train our mind Our minds you know some people just haven't naturally where they just know how to be how to act all those things But the people don't Just like anything else if you struggle in something you work on it, right? So you know self-help books you know motivational things anything like that is a good pathway to go down, you know I think that's very important and like not just like once a month or something like that, but just Every a couple minutes every day Even like we have research that says like gratitude journals just spending like a couple minutes a day saying This is what I'm thinking for it because honestly you most like it this person if they're doing bodybuilding then life isn't that fucking bad They got money to do bodybuilding, you know, yeah, right? So yeah, so yeah, they have some things to be grateful for But those are the biggest things I would say Each and every day Back to the other something that I felt watching the show first off You didn't get to do your routine which ruined my life for the night Yeah, but but with that And I know this seems like a question that I can answer for you, but I really want to know your opinion, which is so we go to the show Mutant but us all seats there were over $200 a piece and There wasn't a show. I really feel like I mean, and you know When I like you were saying about Kai and back in the day in Laveroni and all these guys You used to go to the Olympia and the guys put on a show not necessarily dance in everyone ever But everyone had it there was effort put in you know what I mean You got like Ronnie wasn't the greatest pose or he had a plan I feel like the pro level the Olympia level is drop down to turn music on and hit your Manitors like what do we have to do and do you think they should get a little More exact on making posing max. I could be honestly when we're at the show I appreciated mutant paying for it and I thought to myself I would have rather go to a Vegas show because Sure the outcome was fun, but I could have got that on Instagram later and I could have put that $250 towards a show that would have had me going oh wow What are you thoughts yeah? No, I agree and I I've said this before where I think like For the Olympia to grow like it's honestly audience a little bit more than it needs to be more like a show You know in some in some way and shape or horn It's tough to kind of get that done the way they structure things right now like even the the The press conference is very less man like we get there and then right before we get on says they're like okay This is what I like I didn't know what was going on when I got back safe for the press conference and then You know they cut us off like halfway through so even that was wasn't exactly you know so I think I live in more planning on that in is is is very important like I get like the stage is important the prize money is important but the most moment no one in the in the You know in the crowd cares about how much money the athletes are getting paid to be honest with you know That's no one's coming to the show because all they get to see this guy get a big check They want to come to show you know to see something interesting something to fun so I Would say the best way to do that is through your routines make those routines more interesting and like I've had a couple times where I've gone like you know for the Arnold I wanted to do a routine with another guy Me and where local Me's another good closer. I wanted to choreograph something together to be really interesting And I was like look I know you guys are doing approximately thing if we need to for that because there's good people at fire I just want to put on a good show and then they turn me down I don't know what is gonna take the kind of the kind of get to that point where we Can can do a little bit more with the routines or even have a better a better production with through teams like I think it would be cool. I know I'm gonna tend to hear but I think it would be cool if We were required to maybe turn in a music a little earlier and then we had a light show to actually match the music in the song like a like a Concert you know in the concert the lights match the the music So even something that simple with like elevator routine even if the routine's not the best You can make it better by doing something like that like I know people who seem our routines Like I call them at the music video routines where Meep and Paul who would put the guitar once a year yeah a lot of routines aren't very complicated They actually are a little simpler so he can kind of do all the cool camera rope camera work and lighting and stuff And that's what makes that that's what makes those really cool You know, so even so just saying that because You don't need the most complex routine to make an interesting if you got like cool stuff around it a little more preparation ahead of time with the stage production could take that average routine and elevated That's cool another thing that it's took out it sticks out to me is As you know a long time watch her a bodybuilding It really irritates me when the you know your you're sitting maybe you're at the back row So you're watching the big screen that goes down the side You just want the camera to just stay On the guy head to toe For the whole time he's on stage like Terence Reffins comes out and you just want the camera to lock on him from the front and just shoot that And have it up on both those big screens the entire time you're doing your posing routine Yeah, but you know I understand it's side shot You know Just the calf just the calf You know or just your face while your you know you could tell you're looking down flexing your leg and the cameras on Like he's like Just like Just that sort of like Not understanding it's almost like there's a little there's still a little bit of a disconnect between what's actually important to the viewer sitting in the seats And the people running the cameras and the show But they're acting like you're you could have possibly Just wandered in there and had no idea what you were watching and just drop 300 bucks on an impossible seat to get I'm like everyone there knows what body really is you do not have to do that It's the same with the Arnold every year where the guy comes out and goes this is the round I'm like motherfucker Everyone knows what this round is No one in this room doesn't know what's happening right now Right right right right So I know you wanted to talk some about business two turns and I know that you've you've been Building a lot in the last year. So can you tell us a little bit about that what's been going on on that front? Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's obviously I'm still learning I don't know where near next grade. I just like to talk about it just to you know Share with people was going on you know kind of like the life of like a Probati building and like you know how we kind of go through life and make money and things and Yeah, I recently started a coaching company our our need in coaching about three months ago And it's been great. It's been great so far I originally before that I was working with bit body fusion It's mainly a bikini coaching team, but they brought me on as the head milk coach to bring on more men And that was really really awesome experience I and the negotiated like just getting 5% of The coaching costs of every male that joined So that was a nice little like you know extra bump to I just got to a point where I was like okay, well, I maxed out on my clients You know, I could keep making the 5% from each new person, but I was like well, what happens when I want to retire or something like that? And none of this is mine and yeah things like that So I end up leaving and they were really big. They sponsored every single national every every single show They can get your pro-court they sponsored that They sponsored the Olympia every Arnold They sponsored a lot of the the production companies that help shows like Tim Gardner every show He runs they sponsored every show Joe Joe Piscular runs they sponsored and a few shows on the West Coast as well. I forget the company name, but They're really big and Now, you know, I'm starting from scratch and starting from all the things is definitely all and also doing that while I was in prep for the one people was Very difficult Big yeah good good in the sense of like a lot of eyes during the business We got a lot of a business very upfront but like the initial Energy it takes to To start up a business was a lot and you know, I'm working you know, I was working like 12 plus hours a day Getting all the things we needed in order and Learning how to hire people and fire people and Manage people has been really really tough, but I really enjoyed to be honest with you. It's a lot of fun Yeah, yeah I had it on the different on the on the backside because I think when a lot of people listen They're gonna back oh I have a coaching company too, which means I have an email address and people are besides Like you know, explain because I actually know the other business well I know people that are work over there, but what are you doing on the back end that requires Up front 12 hours a day work Okay, okay So We have five coaches at the moment I have a I Would call them like a VP. I hired a company to kind of that has all the people I need We have a Approach of media strategist that was get content ideas to make sure the coaches are posting because if it's just me posting It makes it very difficult for clients to want to work with other coaches so sure make sure Or upfront and because people it's a good thing with the business to be you know in a spot that I'm into like But it's also very difficult at the same time. No, I get a lot of people I get a lot of leads a lot of people inquiring about the business, but Having them work with other coaches is a little bit more difficult than say maybe Feed body fusion was kind of their model So we have a constant strategies. I have a Marketing director who has been helping me get email marketing campaigns going So we have that we be fair that out and I have to shoot about 40-ish videos or all the different Touch points. We have for everyone. You know if they they complete this part but not the second part if they done this part If they completed the journey if they Worked on at one point and you know, it's just a lot of different touch points. You know, they have to Two videos for We have a guy who's making it easier for me which is really nice. I think the obviously the best way to scale a business is to Have more systems in place, you know, where you don't have to look at it every single day So I've been learning a lot from that From him where is you know when people sign up they're automatically sent the welcome packet, you know, and the the steps to get started with the The coaching software We have a new code where we had to switch to which is a pain in ass Moving like you know hundreds of clients over to a new system and then There's issue with the system as well This is newer. Oh always So that's the pain We're building a community platform soon Because that you know the way the world is going with AI and all that I've been really interested in that Very soon What coaches do Obviously like with with body business a little different because we have the the antibiotic component I don't think AI is at that point at all, but just the diet and nutrition and lifestyle clients are usually The majority of people's coaching business at beyond sure you Especially if you want to grow a large one But AI is going to be able to do that very soon. I mean, we already got like very simple things that can build out a A meal plan already and it's just only going to get better over the the key to keep people interested is Building connections and building communities so we're working on that We have the film carpet for that as well, you know, they have people say it can't just be like another Instagram, you know Then needs to be a Value component outside of just oh I get to talk to people on a team, you know, so we're working on content for that There's a lot and then we just there's things like Legion of rage lead generation Resourcements here so building out free Resources for people so there's a lot of different things that I've had to kind of learn and work on and then there's like the finance and it that find it side of things Well, which I suck at so I've been having to learn a lot about that and it fuck me over because Speaking about the hiring and firing and the finances like I had a person that didn't align with the company very well and I overpaid them and That was you know, then they started asking me for my money then I went back and looked I'm like hey, I overpaid you like a thousand bucks like you know I'm not you know So yeah It's a learning process for sure and Then you know as it's seen you know obviously in the beginning I can't hire out everybody to do everything you know I don't have the the resource right now and I think too it's important for me to kind of learn those different jobs, you know a little bit so like I can know something I'm doing right Let me just on the learning front with the business How much did you learn during your prep because you've never had to do this much when you were in prep before Yeah, experience going to help you a ton for next year because I don't think most people have been in that spot Where not you're not just going to work But you're literally learning new things which means you're mentally stressed you're exhausted all these other things and you're doing that while you're at the Olympia level What have you taken away from that those last you know a couple months or whatever of prep that you go okay These are the mistakes I made and that how can I be better? Because obviously you don't want to be Less than you are on stage you also only a bit a mediocre business owner So what do you what do you figure out with that? It's good question That is a good question so I think if I'm hoping you know pardon me. Hope said it won't be as crazy next year But then I start to realize Exactly We never stops So I think Being more This time I'm more aware of what's going to become it you know what's going to be happy so Just let him just Communicating with my team like hey the last two weeks. I'm going to be busy and having the right people in place It kind of get things done if it needs to be done I'll On top of that yeah this prep I had I I put too much on my plate for sure. I had a coach a company in the town and I thought I'm like oh I'll be able to you know do some content with them and then also whatever that didn't plan out very well And then on top of that there's the stress like I find out that this coach was like What was it? Don't some things that weren't in line with the business so I Wanted to fire them like two three days before the lumpy but I didn't want the adestress, you know Because I didn't know they were gonna aren't so Just even having just like okay, I need to fire this person after the show was kind of kind of shitty So just not putting myself in those positions to kind of Have any business stress kind of happen those last You know two weeks is at least at least a week before the show I'd daily night two week The real the mean part of the reason I asked was you got to compare it to The first time you've ever gotten really really in good shape right everyone remembers the first time they got nasty And you're just not ready you don't realize what it's gonna feel like to find out that your hamstring is what lifts your leg up Because you've ever been so tired that you've realized like oh that muscle is what lifts my foot Yeah, um But once you've experienced that the next time you're ready you're like oh and every Show after that I mean we all know like It's terrible when you talk to an experienced pro about their prep like that's prep like yeah, it is what it is you know That's what will happen to your business as well is every prep because that's why I was teaching like it doesn't ever stop But your ability to know what's coming like when the wheels fall off your god there I was wondering when that was gonna happen. Yeah, that's actually like Okay, you know, so it's it will be a lot easier for you like it's funny, but even if shit was worse Next time Yeah, feel it because you're gonna kind of be adapted so I'm excited to see just because I love watching this and when Scott told me about the business side It's something I feel like more people should see because you got a lot of young athletes dreaming of being where you are And their thought is I just need to survive and tell you where Terence is and then I'll be rich and it won't They're hearing you In the heart of it. I mean, you know, I don't think anyone on this podcast disagrees that you are One or two in the world. I don't really give a shit about one show You know, you're fighting for number one in the world of what you do and you're building a business while doing it And I just want more people to catch that like This is not the time for Terence to relax. It's the time to go all in and cash in on who you are on stage So there's something to retire too, you know, I mean, yeah, yeah, and that's what I That's kind of the reason when I thought about that like I thought you know again like history wise I see all these pros Building businesses after they retire and like they may be kind of moderately successful or a lot of matchly fail, but I Definitely think like if you're able to build something while you're you're going through the process Then that's when you can really really take advantage and capitalize on that on that success Because it's crazy how just how quickly once you retire How much like people just stop carrying oh, and that's not yeah You know body building so fast, you know body building so fast. They'll forget you know in any year, you know We're we're that guy was, you know, dust dust he and I have had to humiliate ourselves weekly on this podcast With constant A lot of our story never mattered but what I We could have built this while we were still competing. There's stuck here with me Yeah, I I do love the you know like I think one of the big misconceptions with a lot of people's like oh He's a pro body builder. That's what he does for a living. Yeah. Yeah. I'd say no no he's spending his whole day like Building like other shit like Frantically working on other stuff and when he's doing his cardio like he's on his phone on the stepper and he's You know shoveling his meal while he's returning messages and he's doing calls while he's driving to the gym and Like they don't realize what is going on like it's like some people you know We talk a lot on this show about the people that don't have a hobby or they just work their nine to five and they just They're just kind of content and they think that's how it works and and you know someone like you that's just Constantly Constantly working and chasing something and trying to build something and I think that's good for people to hear it you know You're not just a pro body builder like pro body building doesn't pay you shit Right is like you have to you have to like go out there and make This stuff happen and Really and I think that's that's great. I'm I love the fact that that message is a big part of what you're telling us You know like I remember I don't I don't know if they still chew or not, but I remember A training make maybe like two years ago and I had in my mind too like everybody But everybody build a has something going on But oh yeah, just bodybuild and it shocked me. I was a holy shit. There's still bodybuilders and The obviously he's asked the sponsorship and you know he has to take photos and videos Honestly that's within his normal day of being a bodybuilder, but like 90 percent 90 nine 95 percent of bodybuilders ever different you know stores of income You know outside of just lifting weights and things and you know Yeah, yeah, so it's interesting that like that's very our member when Side tech was the big company that was still kind of like old school and I remember when they dropped Sedge me milling and now was kind of like a moment for me. I was like wow this is like The last bodybuilder who was just paid to be a bodybuilder All right because I was a holy shit is like in the vera. I remember when I first got into it like they still had these six figure contracts I remember in 2000 and Well 1314 Nick Trigeli sound with most of them as and it was a huge deal And he was like the last amateur to get one last amateur bodybuilder to get one of those sister your contracts and I'm like you know as really crazy kind of how like Things were just like you know 20 years ago where you could be Making good money if you're one of the best but even now if you're one of the best That doesn't guarantee you to make money these days. Yeah, yeah, and even if you could I think the smartest people are still doing something else, you know on top of that I remember last time we talked you were doing a lot of traveling like I with posing and stuff I think you were if I recall it was it Japan you had gone out to I went to Korea Korea Korea So how does how does that kind of stuff figure into what you're doing now? I'm trying to I'm trying to get a handle on that But That's how I made a lot of my money back then was I would do those events and it was it was it became a bit much You know I was traveling like 30 plus weekends a year and yeah, and very fun for a while But then I got to work somewhere I spent last Christmas just hanging out by myself because I had traveled like eight weeks before Like each weekend before Christmas and then I was gonna be going for another four weekends after Christmas And I was like I don't want to go home because even though I want to see my family I don't want to travel anymore. I just couldn't you know do it So that was kind of like the point for me where I was like I don't want to Travel anymore is much at least as much yeah, I Had said this go for myself. I was like the first year I kind of got into the shopping thing. I was like I want one event every month and I got probably like two events a month and then I told myself I want two to three We need too much way way too much very quickly. So I Remember for the Arnold last year I Was traveling I traveled like six weekends in a row and I had the last two weekends Here in home before that that Arnold so we got it done, but yeah, I was like this is not the way to do it You know That's wild You're trading time for money Which means it runs out there's a cat With what you're doing now there there You can always add another trainer add 10 more trainers add 30 more trainers add a new You know a new app there's endless things that once they're put into motion Don't require your time anymore at least not as much Yeah, it's like personal training, you know, I used to work 60 hours a week personal training And then I was like okay, I can't work 60 I work 50 but I'll start pairing people together Then the number of group it still becomes I can only work so many hours Yeah, you know, so you can only go so high so I love the the mentality of putting into it because It really will be endless because there's things that are you're gonna figure out or ideas you're gonna have Where in five years you're gonna look back at your business when you started and be like even the same business You know, it's exciting. I think you'll be shocked at how much fun that side is for you And it'll actually take stress off of bodybuilding because You don't need demonic, you know, I mean, you know, it will truly be like fun to bodybuild with no stress Yeah, I'm excited you know and you know when I I decided to to start this business I What I did was again like I didn't quite think about like you know I was invent you know the time thing you mentioned But I like I didn't have enough of it so like I I got rid of two sponsorships There's still great people like tough raps is one and then I can't remember I can't think of the other at the moment Because I knew it was like this is too much going on my mind. I already have you know two other sponsorships that pay really well And even though this one is paying me a decent amount. I think that time could be better spent, you know all myself And I And then when I left Fit body, you know, obviously I lost that that percentage I was getting as well So I took a big pay cut. I was I was really happy. I was at like 200 a little of a 200 thousand dollars a year at that point and then I dropped back down to maybe like Like a little over 100 and I dropped down All right And I was so you know because each two every year my goal was to To double my income that was my goal and I got to that point where it's like I don't see how I could do it You know any more and so This is my attempt to kind of get back there and and to surpass it and I've even and even to the point where I've to invest a lot more in you know into this business where I have more bills I have to pay this team You know, I've reached the same amount of the coaching team that I have we've reached the same we've reached more clients than I've I've ever had But Obviously they take a percentage of that so it's not the same amount of money that I was getting with just coping a large amount by myself There's a lot of interesting things that you know that are happening that like you said it's really exciting and then on top of that You know, I realized I was talking to my My friend yeah last week I was like I You know, I have this amount of money You know, there's I have and there's I can only spend it in one place. I can either take another coaching course or I can take this Alex her mozi business course and He said yeah, yeah, he's coming he's coming to Tampa May 4th to 6 so I spent 1200 dollars To go to his course to learn from him so or and I that's what I did when I first started competing I mean when I started coaching I spent way more money than I had on Learning from Austin Stout I don't know if you've ever yeah, so I spent money on John Jew is course. I you know I heavily believe in like Investing in yourself Yeah, absolutely So what are some of the what are some of the things that you can take from this year With how your year went business wise and Olympia wise What are some things that you're gonna take into this 2023 now As like big markers of of what you definitely don't want or do want to happen Okay I've gotten a lot better at time management like scoring all time and and just focusing on one thing I think that's very important Even with my meals like When the at the very beginning of my my prep I was trying to eat and work at the same time and then I would finally finish my meal and then it would be time for my next meal, you know So I made an agreement with myself where When it's time to eat it's time to eat and then I get back to work and that's the way I do things I've read this book called one thing and He says people aren't very even though we think we're good at multitasking. We really suck at it And all we've heard that too Yeah, yeah, yeah, so we just wind up doing a mediocre job of multiple things Yeah, yeah, and I'm like holy shit that is exactly what I'm doing So That's one big thing is when I'm focusing on something Focus completing on that Recently I've started really like The past January I've been cycling on like the social media stuff and like Just last week I was like okay, let me devote like four hours to this and then I put I filmed out eight videos in that time and I'm like okay, this is awesome I just need to do this like three days a month and I have everything I need for the month You know nice So I've realized I'm like, okay, this this this Intention is really focused and driven intention is is really beneficial for me As far as we're biggest thing I've I really learned this year Especially especially to like being an independent business person, you know I can really from both managing the podcast and managing clients like you can I can get caught up in that same thing where you're just trying to do all these different It's not like you go to a job and you just do your job for eight hours You know what I mean? It's like you're managing several different things all at once and if you're not organized with it You like you don't you don't get anything done I can see everything you're saying man. I'm kind of feeling inspired right now to check out that what's the name of that book one thing One thing I got to see who was I'll find it. Yeah, thank you. I'll find it. Yeah So how You mentioned AI earlier and we were actually talking about chat GPT in the last episode and And what have you been on that if you try to doubt? Honestly, um, I've been using a little bit of AI recently that kind of helped me Be more efficient it's pretty it's insane like I've I really did a deep dive just because I was a little worried and also little curious There's a lot of people are a little worried Really like honestly like overnight chat GPT destroyed like a couple jobs like it destroyed like copywriting and like all right That's not weird it's done Even to the point where graphic designing like you could still get a graphic designer because It's a little easier to communicate with them, but If you're not super particularly in what you want you can get an AI to do it Like to just design your thumbnails to design your logos or do all that stuff is It's like again, it's a little it's a little scary, but then At the same time if you're smart you'll know how to kind of take advantage of it So I don't want to be like one of the people who are scared and just like Shut it and then it just pops up on me, you know? Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's not going anywhere Yeah, I've been I've watched like four or five podcasts something yeah In the past like two weeks I've been sitting on chat GPT every morning for the last week Well, I'm eating my breakfast just typing in random things just trying to see what it says like writing right in right a 500 Word essay about Dorian Yates and it just did it this yeah, and it was really well done I was like oh man you could submit this to him like a if you had to write an article if your boss was like doing article on Dorian for me Just copy paste done Like a lot of people know Yeah, a lot of people you know for blog posts now and yeah crazy thing I was nearly it was like I can there's this AI that can like Like do my face or whatever and it can look like me and then I can have a type in stuff And they can say it it won't sound like me, but then there's another AI where I speak for I can speak this script or Redistrip for 20 seconds 30 seconds and then it can reproduce my voice So I pair those through the gather and then and then I compare in the the cop the chat GPT and then I can have the GPT A script and give it to the other AI and they can just say I don't have to do shit Yep, there's a voice Yeah, I'm actually using right now I'm not on I Got the T1000 doing the interview for me. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's amazing Well, I know we've had you for an hour. I wanted to ask you one thing I ask a lot of guests What's one just totally off topic for me that you go here? What's an Instagram account that you have a lot of fun following that people might not know about just Something you know they take all reference body builder turns rough and body builder body builder But you know what else you follow in that you might think is fun I'll do three because they might be boring so some of one of them might be entering from the somebody Okay, I Follow the probably the most boring when I follow is like the event I follow one call like abandoned houses They just show pitted abandoned places Yeah around the world and it's like super interesting to me like like I don't know why but I just love finding like like abandoned places and looking at them Um another one I follow is this this one call like Asian boss news which is just they just ask People in Asia or sometimes America Just different questions like random questions like they came to America on the last one I saw and it is as Americans have many Asian countries are there and No one knew but um and And in the third one might be I mean if I'm gonna think of an interesting one So like every time abandoned abandoned houses and Asian boss news I've recently deleted a ton of them because I was like man, I'm spent to my son on Instagram And houses I found abandoned houses that looks cool I Asian boss media Asian boss media there we go Okay, there we go Other than that I follow The boring ones like I follow like Value team and Russell Brands podcast I follow like some anime stuff here and there But new stuff I'm really in the movies. Oh like um you know I train at Dave Jim so He's got that new movie Not I can't have been door yeah the M Yeah, so like not really yeah I was really worried about all the shit you might because it might as me count a suck in these recently So but like I said it would be good So I follow movie anime news and shit like that yeah Nice I love doing your nerd That's great stuff funny well thanks for that man We appreciate your time and Obviously we wish you the best you're one of our like I said one of the few people that's been on twice So you know big fans of you and love seeing you say people on stage and We want to see up there again at your absolute best a new and improved Terrence Ruffin at the next stop Do you have what what would be the next show for sure? Do you have I don't have it set most likely in August August so there's like two shows is Tampa Pro and then there's one in Texas cool so not far from home that either easy to get to Just timing wise. It's really close to Olympia so it makes sense. Yeah, right We can ask too What are your current sponsors just so people can take a look and if you got need just count loads or whatever Yeah, I appreciate that flag nor fail You know owned by Rob Medana and Dana form a On a missile level if you you know that I will yeah first First Your small champ just you know First you say what I personally pay your sponsorship there by buying clothes off the website It's only talks about Expensive habit I have being on that website You know I like them in I like you know I think about shit like this like I think about some of the because this is another thing like real quick I know we're running out of time about like afly wise choosing your sponsors can play a big deal and like How you not how you do like competition wise in the sport but like who sees you like you know How big you get so like safe for instance like with my wife Tiffany She's just signed with like LA No young yelay great company Yeah, they're popular as hell so that's just gonna help her grow like as opposed to her going with like a a smaller more niche company, you know So that's something is like I didn't think about when I first started like oh shit, you know You know be a little bit more selective but Anyway flag no fail is one and then Rise rises a new new ish supplement company. I think it's about five years old Started by this guy named Nick and Joey swore He's no longer with the company, but I Really liked them and they're really like it's really interesting with the doing and It surprised me because I thought raw might have been the number one company and a vitamin shot But rises No more Wouldn't like no major Athletes, you know They're going you know if based on how they I really love it because it's really transparent like they say they say like I saw I added it one time like you don't need supplements, but you know this is why you might take them or They're honest with about the athletes, you know These yet we hire athletes that are you know our enhanced, but you know with public fun with that we just want to be up front with it So it's pretty cool how like transparent they are and how well like the community receives it Absolutely Yeah, well, I'm I know you're valuable because People keep you know like you said you had so many sponsors you had to let some go Yeah, I'm firm You must be doing right by your sponsors if you got that many so It's you know it's good to see But we're we're again thankful for your time I know you know when you're running businesses and stuff given up an hour to talk to three meat heads is Much appreciated So Anything fun fun. Oh words you want to say to the fans Thanks for listening honestly, you know thanks for keeping body boom alive, you know Votiboon you know just watching shows isn't enough you know supporting things like this is important So thank you That's cool. Yeah, I agree there you go This one It's all the words you like this one. Yeah, remember everybody like share subscribe comment and ring the bell and ring the bell and remember I am mutant calm 20% off with big Ron 20 or dusty 20 you can get in there get your stuff they support the show so we support them Thank you very much thanks Terence Appreciate it and look at that Okay, thanks man and remember It's just bodybuilding. Thanks brother

There's nothing I can't say. Then go to a bodybuilder's at all. What a total waste of your life. They don't. So I just thought I'd mention I'm wearing the American Barbell shirt because that is the latest episode of Mutant Animation. I thought I'd just mention it. So anybody wants to watch my latest Mutant Animation head over to the Mutant YouTube channel and check out American Barbell. So Nate was an awesome guy. I know I mentioned the gym already when we went after the art before the Arnold there. Yeah, had fun. Jim looked awesome. There's lots of crazy expansion he's going to do. So they have a bunch of prime machines. Yeah, yeah, a bunch prime, a bunch of Rogers. He's a guy that had that 11 acre piece of land. And he built a house on one side. And it was like zoned for half commercial, half residential. Like it's perfect. It's like the type of thing that you know, you bribe someone on the city council to do for you. Like zoned this one commercial and zoned this one residential like just so perfect. Next door to each other. So yeah, I wish I'm luck. But great Jim and I look forward to going again when we go to the Arnold next time. Nice. A great shirt. I got design as well. It's good. Yes, pretty cool. You know, it should have though. Some sort of a gun also should be on the picture. Just take it that extra like yeah, go all the way. That would be perfect. I have a shirt coming next week. For you, Ron. Well, it's it's it's a gun on it. It does and I don't want to say too much more. But it's it'll be an homage to Canada. Let's put it that way. Okay. Okay. I saw a great speaking of guns. I saw a great thing. Maybe think of you Scott. Yeah. I'm sure you might have seen it yesterday. But someone put up a thing that said, legal gun owners have 300 million guns and probably a trillion rounds of ammo. If we were the problem, you'd know. Yeah, right. Right. That was like some very valid point that JP guy, the like a weekend with JP guy. Yeah, he's he's off. He did when I'm gun control and he was said, you know, he was like, we should just make murder illegal. And it's like, wait, we've already done that. I don't think just how long murder they already have. And the criminal still break the law. Well, that's good. The the thing about the interesting thing about gun control as a Canadian is if you look at the percentage of legal guns that are used in crime, it's insignificant. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Like I talked to cops. Cops tell me the guns that are used in all of the crime, like almost all of the crime are illegal guns anyways. They're smuggled in. They're not ever legally owned by anybody. There's not like this massive number of stolen firearms. Like, because that's what gun people say. Like, well, those guns are out there and then someone steals them and uses them. That the percentage of that is like, really, really low. Like, it's a joke. It's guns being smuggled in. They're coming right across the border here. The cops tell me they're coming right across the border into Ciri. Yeah. And they're coming thousands of guns at a time, hundreds of guns at a time. And they're the ones that are getting used in the vast majority of the crime. So the legal gun owners that people who have a restricted firearm license are one of the least likely groups of people to ever commit a crime. No kidding. I believe that. I have a restricted firearms license. Statistically, I will never get arrested. I will never commit a crime. Statistically. And one of them, I'm in the category of one of the least to worry about citizens. Huh. Right. So restricted gun owners aren't the problem. And legal, legally owned firearms aren't the problem. They're all in safe. Everyone is like, I'm going to fucking safe because it's a lot. So the idea further restricting guns in Canada is just low information people who don't know what's actually happening. They listen to these sound bites. And of course, compassion is being weaponized in some of these cases. Because I mean, who's not compassionate to like this is this last thing that happened just unbelievable. You know, but you know, also saw someone commented that they're from Sweden. Someone commented on some video I was watching. And they're like, they're like, I don't know. I don't understand why your classrooms don't have external exits. Emergency exits in Sweden. Every single classroom has an outside exit. So if anyone ever walked in with a gun, all the kids who just walk out their fucking classroom door. Yeah. They wouldn't be stuck to half to go out of hallway. And I was like, oh, I fuck. That sounds like a huge fail. She's really obvious what's pointed out like that. The way I said one. The way I see it is personally that in what I've said to people is, and it was really part of it was after I got sick. I started seeing that, you know, you're nobody's going to care about your life as much as you do. No one cares about you know. And I recognize that like we are a fox. You have a fuck. Yeah. No shit. We are our own first responders, you know. And if there's somebody out there who's, you know, deranged or basically just selfish. Somebody that doesn't care about my life as much as I do, I want to be able to do more than just pray that they have mercy on me. If I really do them. You know, that's really what it comes down to. And if there were more people that felt the way I did, then when there wasn't active, I don't even want to say active killer. I want to take the term shooter out of our vocabulary. An active killer. If there wasn't active killer, then like, ban through a crowd of people. Ten people. Ten people would turn on him, you know, real quick. And further, you know, it to the way that are, the way that our society portrays these people, I think that we shouldn't say what their names are. I think that we shouldn't like find out anything about their story. What went wrong with them? They should just ridicule them, you know, be little them, make them feel like a piece of shit. And make people feel like, man, I don't want to be that guy. You know, I don't want to be that. Yeah, it's a really, you know. It's one of the most fascinating psychological short circuits that happens in the, in the, in the primate brain. You know what I mean? Like, of all the things to go wrong with people, that's just, yeah, that to think that that can be a thing that goes wrong with those fucking, that is wrong with you. Like, whether those guys are born, cycle pass, or their brains have just been demolished by trauma and horrible upbringing. They've reached a point that's just like it's crazy that they can get to want to do that. Those, that story is just, I mean, I had to kind of stop paying attention to it. I was watching breaking points in the morning. And I was, they were keeping me up to date with the Yvall the police department. How they were, they weren't, they were like, you know, not commenting on it, not even like really cooperating with like some of the questions being asked. And it's, that sounds like there's a lot of people I'm not pleased to par with that, that have a lot to answer for. Like, that was crazy. That woman that ran in, got her kids, two kids and two different classrooms, ran out with them. Like, unbelievable, you know? But they also didn't really do a great job here at least of like drawing attention to what brought it to an end. I had to like dig in to find it. Yeah, border guy. Yeah, a guy who's often be border there and they're and they're all holding that. It's done. Well, he, I read in a story that was like, he was like, getting a haircut. He's like, his, his, his, his, his like, oh, fuck, all right, well, I got this. Did he tell, did he go home and get his gun or did he tell his wife got it from? No, he said, what I read. So take this for is was that he asked his barber if he had a firearm and he said, yes, and he took it for, right, and it was like a shot. It was like a boy, he's like, this is the perfect weapon for this. It was like a shotgun. He's like, I don't know if they don't fuck that ass move. That's like, die here. Right there. You know what I'm saying? I'm like, woe shit. Do you have a fire in it? You got to love the word you're there with the guys like, of course I do. So right here. Yeah. Yeah. It did, the, how the reporting goes is kind of weird. There was another really recent case of some dude who felt teed off or whatever. Some people, they're having a picnic. I guess it was some sort of family reunion or something. I don't remember the details, but he came back with an AR and started shooting. And it was one person that happened to be there. Woman with her, her CPL. And she took him out before anybody could get hurt. But they don't, they don't, you know, they don't bring attention to that stuff. Because it doesn't, it's a good deal. The agenda, right there. It's stopping a bad thing. It is not the narrative they're looking for. I will say there's, the world sees the United States as just, you guys running around shooting each other. Oh, yes, the world sees it. But there's five cities. It's actually five cities. Yep. So the stat that I just saw is America is third on gun violence worldwide. But if you remove five cities, Chicago, America was, LA Detroit. Yeah. And I can't remember the other two. There's five cities. If you remove those five cities, America falls to 189th. I'm getting gun violence. Yeah. And those five cities, the ones are the hardest on gun control, which is what's the most important. Yeah, they actually have the hardest gun control in those five cities too, which is another interesting point. But it's, it's all that, you know, the stats are in, what is it 90? Is it 95% of it is gang violence? All the gun violence in America? It's not like just regular people running around shooting each other at all. It's gang violence is like 95% of your crazy numbers. That's a lot of it. Yeah, you know. So, you know, just like some cities are like literally hundreds of gun crimes on a weekend. Yeah. I'll tell you, stats just get insane. Like in what up in here in a Canadian city, there's like, you know, handful in a weekend. I can tell you that. So, and this is years ago, I used to, when I was about like 15, I was making money, my dad, but from my dad's friend, by babysitting his two kids. And he lived in Redford, which is the border city, to one of the border cities, to Detroit westside. And this is the area they call a Breitmore on that part of Detroit. And they're very small homes, all packed, close together. And there's a lot of gang activity there. Like that area you have to try what I've discovered is, like those guys, they're all younger, and they've got something to prove. So, there's a lot of crazy shit going down. A lot of dope being sold over there. Versus like the more you get downtown, the more it's like the bigger old houses, and things are just like chill quiet. People are doing their thing, and just businesses, usual, drug dealing. But there's a lot. And I remember I would sit on the porch in the summer, and you could just hear it all night. Just pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop. From like the, you know, few blocks away. It was literally all night wild. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I have to admit like if I ever, there's a couple times I heard a gun shot in a city, and it's very rare, because I'm living Canada, just but if you like I have heard one, and it's like, holy fuck up, it's definitely a gun. Yeah. But down in some of like, you know, Detroit. Pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop. Like pop corn all night. No, actually just helps you sleep, it's like, they call, they call it white. Like having the fan on. Yeah. Yeah. You turned it off, okay. Yeah, I'm comfortable. Yeah, I'm sure we do that. Yeah, I can't sleep here. I can't sleep on the country. Guys starts popping pop corn instead. All right, we're fine. Yeah, it goes on holidays. Press to run a blender all night. Yeah. Okay. Um, so what are we doing? We doing some YouTube questions Scott, and we just gonna, sure. What's up? Sure. I've got like six of them. Um, good. Well, what's so, let's do what's the latest with Dusty first of all? Yeah, yeah. What's your update? What do you have to add? How are you going to go to the workplace by telling us about your life? Oh, God. Well, I mean, I could tell them about my life so they could feel better about themselves. I mean, that would be helpful. Oh, okay. Well, maybe not here. Maybe that could happen. Yeah. No, nothing crazy. I, uh, I will say that I put up. Last week, I decided just for fun to just put up like things that had nothing to do with bodybuilding on my Instagram. And he just won post with like 10 pictures. A lot of people dug it, but coincidentally, I had taken a picture of them putting the foundation on my house a week ago. It was awesome. Uh, today they put the roof on it. Wow, that's fast. And I'm like, okay, apparently framing is a very fast thing. I had no idea. Like, I went to check on it. I was like, holy shit, there's a house there. Yeah. So that was a big moment. So stoked on that. Still going to be four months or four months done, but at least got me excited. And then I closed on my mother's house. Got her moved in and I've already started immediately. The carpet that was in the house and I would floor isn't carpet. I don't do carpet. So that came out, replaced the floors yesterday. So maybe put stairs on the deck because it was, yeah, I got floating deck. I got wasn't there was no stairs down. Who doesn't that, wow, the fuck you got to get down stairs? Because her house is like on a hill Scott. Yeah. Yeah. So I need to have a flat stairs put on, but the stankfully, the same guy did both. Cool, his business. So knocking both out on Saturday, where in business. So now it's easy. The only thing that's gotten a little tricky is my mom still hasn't figured out that I don't talk on phones. Oh, she keeps calling my text device. It's very confusing. So like this morning, I shot her text to verify something. You know, to make sure it was good. The odd put name and visible fence on her yards or her dogs can roam, but they're locked in. And I said, is it lady coming? What time's lady coming? She's still 10. She sends back 10 to noon, but I'll give you more exact time. Okay. Now I'm in the gym and then my phone rings. My answer, she goes, should be 10 30 to 10 45. I'm like, that was textible. That's a text. What are we doing here? So I have to just rewind a little bit. I used you you said something and I just allowed it to go past so you could finish your sentence. What's an invisible fence? You don't know the visible fence is. Oh, it's visible fence. Is that what you said? So there's no fence. That's it. But there's a fence for dogs. So it sounds like James Bond's collar on them. Oh, wow. Oh, I can't walk out. Yeah. My parents have said it. It works good. It doesn't keep other dogs out of your yard though. That's you. Yeah, you got to watch for it. Yeah, but my parents, like my mom's yard is down. There's we no reason to be there. Yeah. You're not walking that area. Yeah. So yeah, it's it's good. It'll be a nice thing because she didn't realize. I was like, I think I was like, I'm not spending $15,000. But thanks to your yard. She was like, I think you might. You were putting a fence up, but you were going to get like, I thought it was like going to be covered in like foliage. You can put a fence. It's a army guy. I could gardener to come in and put vines all over the fence to cover it. I was like, what's an invisible fence? Hold on. Hold on. This is getting confusing. Very expensive. Very expensive. It would have been painted just like the, like just like, just like, you can run right into that fucking place. If you look at it, and just look like this surrounding terrain. Yeah. Yeah. I'll put the leaves. I love that by life is such a mess that run process into something totally. He's like, this guy's getting shit done to his face every other week. Maybe there is an invisible fence. Well, I don't know. I see. I'm a bad consumer. We've been over this. I'm not good at buying stuff. And sometimes I don't even know stuff exists. I'm like, oh, really? That's awesome. And like, you know, like, I, I'm not the type of guy that wanders through best buy and like grabs the newest stuff. And like, I got the easing this. You know, I'll see someone using something. I'm like, oh, what's that? You know, I can have to put it in the cell phone. I'm a bad shopper. Yeah. Yeah. So I noticed that I think my phone just slowed down. Hmm. I do that to your purpose. Tell me. Yeah. So I think they're, while they just happened to also tell me I'm do that I'm eligible for an upgrade. I was just going to slow down the next day. Yeah. Yeah. The great next day, it's just like a little bit less responsive when I do the face scan. It takes like an extra second to get into it every fucking time. Yeah. And like all those seconds add up. They're trying to send me a message. Right? I actually have a, I think it was Todd, my, my video guy. He is one of those guys. He's like my phone works. Fuck you. Yeah. Right. Eventually they stopped like doing updates. And he like had to get a new phone. Which I get such a kick out of. I'm like, this guy has all the coolest shit. It lives the coolest life. Like, what's the, what's the, what's the, what's the oldest phone you could still use? Like, can you still have like an old Nokia flip phone? Yeah. You could still call it those ones. It's more like the smartphones where they, they kind of age them out. Like, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I mean. But how far back can you go and still take a phone call? Like, did you have an iPhone 4, you know? No, like, could you have like a motorola from 1999? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Because they have those just like the burner phones. You can still buy those. You just, you know, you can't text or they know. Really? Is it like the, I'm, what I'm saying is like, is that, is that. I know that it's like looks like the same phone and it's just basic and you can just call people on it. You're saying actual 19. Is it the same chip and the same technology that will still work on the same? I don't know. I don't know how. I don't know how. Yes. And what's the oldest phone you can still text somebody? Like a T9. Tintextor. Yeah. Like the old school text. What's the oldest phone you could still text to like your iPhone? I wonder. I don't know. I wonder how like, you know, what is your phone? Because you still have face recognition. It's just so can't be that old. No, I got like 10, the 10 X max. Yeah. The big 10. It's not that old. Yeah. But I just, it's at one second. That's it. That's just the one second every time I do something. You know what's funny about that? Ron is, we are old enough that we all did like, ALL and have a week for the. Oh, no. No, if something is like less than 0 seconds, we get frustrated. Yeah. Sensitant. But the fuck. I'm also getting more aware that I'm not every one day closer to death. So let's not waste these seconds. It's valid. I think about that with. Driving. I'm like, you will have all people. You'd want to get where you're fucking lonely. It's almost over. Why are you going 30 in a 45? That's a problem here, by the way. People drive under the engine. Oh, yeah. Where is this? Oh, Vancouver. Terrible drivers. Sorry. I had somebody. The crazy, like I thought it was a Detroit driver when I was in Vancouver. We were like, oh, bang the law. Going to speed limit. I wasn't like speeding or anything, but we were making a right hand turn. And this guy started honking his horn behind us. We're waiting at a light. And then he blew past the light. Turned right. And then made a big U-turn in the middle of the intersection flipped us off and took off. That was a fucking Canadian too. Really? Yeah. They must've known you were very young. Wow. Yeah. I didn't think they kind of think happy. Wow. We're not always nice. We're not always nice. We take our road rage very serious. Do you? See, I'm just good. The treat road rage like hockey. That's good. Yeah, there's a little hockey in us, right? So if you parked at a red light, there's a little, this fuck. You got time for a little. You know what I'm thinking of, we're on. Have you been watching the hockey? Oh my god. Yeah, just a highlight. Just be keeping up on the highlights. Dude, I, so my friend is a huge range of Spain. Yeah, they go up too well. And I was like, I will see, because I picked Tampa, like, the beginning of playoffs to win again, we'll see. I have to be better. But anyways, at the end of game two, the lightning of one. And I don't know, sorry, the end of game three, the lightning of one. Now they're up three, two in the series. And for whatever reason the game is over. And there's a scuffle at the end and a captain of the lightning who's not like a known like fighter actually gets in a fight. Nothing crazy happens. But I literally texted my said, should not have done that. They were entire team is lit up. The very next day, they close them out in Tampa. And he scores the only two goals of the game. And it's like, when you play sports, you can see that shit. You're like, oh, that was mistake. So yeah, I was, yeah, I mean, it's just, I watched the reaction of all the other players. Like, when your fight is against the fight, you're like, huh? It's what they do. When you're, when you're captain gets in a fight. Yeah, it'd be like if you're in comparison, like if Sydney cries, we got in a fight. And actually did all right, you'd be like, huh? Fuck, like that's the thing you're on. You're on your job. You know, you know? It's a big arrest to the team is what you mean the whole team. Oh, yeah, you can see they were armed. I mean, literally, they were like high-fiving and shit. Like something crazy happened. And it wasn't a big scuffle or anything. It wasn't even a big deal. So it was fun to watch. And I, I actually sacrificed half of that game for my mother's birthday party. So it's kind of a good person. You're a good son. How will your mother? I have no idea, but I keep telling her, she's angry. I think she's in her 60s, but I don't actually know how. She's older than you. You're only one because I know how old I am. She's at least 50, she's at least 57. We'll put it that way. Yeah. I mean, and I just told her, it's like, look, I lied about my age. You can lie about yours. It's fine. We're good. Right. Okay. And I'm pleased either one of us. So yeah. So yeah, I want, if there is a heaven, I should get a spot there just for that. So there's that. You've been a good son, Dusty. I will, I will give you that from what I know. Thank you. I do like best to make up for all the bad shit. So we have a question Scott. You got some or you were doing it to YouTube. I think we're doing some YouTube questions. Okay. And I think Scott said, you know, things were going pretty good with YouTube questions. I think Scott said. Yes. And with that said, guys, comment with your questions plus comments. All that stuff. Yeah, you can bring this up. I'll give you some. Sometimes we just go over the comments, you know. Oh, yeah, we didn't do the like share subscribe comment and ring the bell. Yes. There we go. It's the random like it's known to that. Like fuck it. This is what