a lot different It wasn't a lot of my city involved like Sega Genesis and BMX bikes we maybe 17 Different we might have been seven no, but go ahead So Ten and the hookers showed up and once the hookers got there Really got out of control in our our older friend Rob He knew this guy drop in last names I think I shouldn't do that This massive coke party It's my buddy Rob Okay, I'm gonna edit that out I'm gonna be yeah, there we go He's totally a school teacher in No, no, I was not I know I feel I have a feeling School teaching is the last thing Rock is doing right now Put it down Like is he not gonna be with a few hundred yards of a school We did a few hundred yards of people. I don't know Oh, my god, this is so great. We were hanging out Rob knew this guy who Did Tattoos in prison So Drone And yeah, we were all going to get slayer tattoos like just so I have a question I have a question Did he go to the prison to do tattoos or he was an inmate? Oh, no, yeah, you don't go to Do you learn I guess that's good. Yeah, okay You pick up the serial while you're there Yes, and now we had real it. Yeah, yeah, he's out now and he was doing legit tattoos Rob got this big grizzly bear And we were all gonna get just like a little slayer tattoo And I'm glad I didn't get that but what's not true I just ordered doesn't end I had if you know what I'd have all the bad decisions I made when I was 17 I just I had a feeling I was like now you don't want that you know you don't want to live you're sitting there and you're like Drunk and just started some cocaine of a stripper's ass You're like you know what I've made enough bad choices today We're just more slayer tattoo. It's very possible slayer is next album might be sub par Just give me a little more cover. We'll take that instead Oh, God, okay, it's one of my traders said this So yeah, everyone's got their limits I'm stopping at snorting coke of a coke of a hookers ass. Okay, all right. I think I'd want more good one here from Bryce You're a pop star with Michael. I love how this starts. I love how this starts I have no idea where it's going your pop star with Michael Jackson level fame You're putting together the next big album and need some big name guest spots Who you gonna ask to do the guitar solo the day and roll around on the beach with with the film clip Okay, I can entertain this I'll get I'll get who it's so the guitar solo. I'll I'll I'll ask I'll ask uh Hmm, who am I gonna get? Well, I'll get angus young to do it. I was gonna say like Zach Wilder something but it's a pop song and Zach Wild would be a little more metal I'll see you go get a car and get near okay, angus might be able to write like you know how Eddie van Hilling came in and did beat it You know yeah, no one's like Eddie's not a pop star but he can lay down a really wicked solo So yeah, I get angus to do like a bluesy solo for me throw it in there. I do wet Fiona Apple whoa love love her and Well, is the other one was the last one we're gonna roll on the beach with yeah for the like the video Oh roll around on the beach with damn I don't want to sound too creepy He's trying to think of older beaches older women on the beach. Yeah, I'm like don't say anyone from Instagram don't say anyone from Instagram Oh god He's like Yeah, he's give her Instagram name at yeah, yeah, yeah I'm thinking I go retro with the video and maybe make it funny and and maybe get Pam Anderson to do it with me There you go We're coming to the lectra what worked to great choice. I'm sure she still looks great She has no offense anyways Oh Yeah, okay, well I just found out though the one minute man put that up like two weeks guys like oh it's interesting You see that one that one chicken bar stool sports She's like some Instagram chick she made a million dollars in one day With her. I know that was no that was the chick that was the chick that cash me outside chick from like One looks a different chick. This is a different girl. Okay. Yeah, I saw the actual side girl. Yeah Yeah, would you see what she did after that like everyone thought it was gonna be like a quick thing So she made like a million a certain amount of hours and he's like a little little catch up on what she's done since then by the end of the Year's to 53 million Yeah, crazy. I'm like a roll-in with it What yeah, yeah, yeah, this girl just started and only fans put up one new picture of her over tits She's like I'll show my tits and she put up one picture She had at six point five million Instagram followers when she launched it So she was just a hot Instagram girl and she'd never shown her tits Okay, so she started and only fans put one tits shot up. Yeah, and it was like 1995 to subscribe or whatever She made a million dollars in one day. Yeah, I'm thinking that six point five million followers. That's not Man every girl the huge fall and just said you know what it's tits. It's one picture That's what she said she's like I said how fuck loves him. I tits. Yeah, who cares? I'm not fuck get this so snoop dog Will do a one like you can hire snoop for to be on a video like if you have it he'll do a song with you so if you have a song and you want him to be part of it the price is 250 thousand dollars okay, but if you think about it then you have an album with snoop on it What does that pay you? I don't know like it. I mean you got out probably have a good album outside of that but Yeah, you get 16 bars and he said that he'll do the video and you get What does he say you get 16 bars 250 thousand dollars and you get one hour So get filming so he's not so you know So 16 bars of music worth of snoop yeah You get 16 bars that's like yeah, that's funny 16 bars. I didn't know they talk like that for two hundred fifty but that I feel like that could be worth it. You know what I mean like if you well I'm sorry

I'm not saying it's wrong. Yeah. But my first question be wise. I know testosterone in there, bro. But it's, you know, I was going to say what if they can't handle. But I mean, debol itself is going to have even more. I don't know. I don't want to say I don't want to hear it because that's rude. But I'm not going to say it's rude. But I'm going to say it's rude. But I'm going to say it's rude. I'm going to say it's rude. But I'm going to say it's rude. But I find it hard to believe that someone can tolerate other compounds in that, even a small amount of testosterone. That's just odd. If you're, um, if you're not able to handle testosterone, I mean, that's like, that's like wanting to be a stripper and you're not comfortable taking your clothes off. I can't. I don't relate to that. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with Coachess Skip Hill. And me, Scott McNeilly, we're brought to you by TrueNutrition.com. Use our code ThinkSupplementSource.ca for Canadians. Patreon. I'm going to look up to see if we have some Patreon questions. I think we might have a couple from you guys. And if we don't comment over on Patreon, we give you guys priority for all the shows. And, you know, we're brought to you by some other people too that we don't talk about on YouTube. But if you listen to the audio podcast, you might find out about some other advertisers and sponsors. All right. Skip, we got some listener questions. Andrew's not with us today. He is traveling. In fact, I spoke with him on tax. He's in Rhode Island right now. And he's going to support a friend's show and he's bringing a bunch of people with him to compete in that show. He does say hi. He sends everybody in YouTube. His love. So he wishes he could be with us today. Anyway, our paraphrase contract renegotiations. We'll see. We'll see if the contract goes through by the next episode. So let's see if it works for Andrew. I tried. It didn't work very well. So, all right. We mentioned this before. It was kind of impassing. The question came up and it was from one of my clients. Can you do a contest prep without trend dieting with a trend? I would do that. Why? This is silly. That was my waxing. You know, so I didn't know who that was and you told us about it. Yeah. Then I looked him up. I watched it. It doesn't have his videos. So if you haven't seen him guys, it is funny and it gets old real quick. Yeah. Yeah. Look at the drip and I brew. I got the military blues on. I think that's what they call with the camo pants. The policy carry on the shirt and the and childish on the brim. And never went back and watched it again. When I get my watches, we can't. I'm going to do. I'm going to be like, and this is my dream. I got my Oliver Kupel's eye. Got my brain. It's so funny. It's funny. It's like it says three or four times. Yeah. Skip like student life. All right. So yeah, man, just we'll make it. We'll make it brief, but you know, contests prep without trend. I don't think it's as big of a deal as people might think. First of all, man, let me ask you this. If you go to a national level show. Bodybuilding in classic. Maybe even men's physique. The percentage of guys are running trend historically based off of your experience. Well, with 100% being everybody. If you count the audience, it's like a hundred years. Yeah. No, I mean, it's so astronomically high that it is. I think we're going to all agree. It's kind of assumed that that's just an integral part of. Because it was so good. It's just so good. Here's I added it three weeks ago within two weeks of being on it. It's just such a dramatic change. I've always said this. Trend doesn't make you leaner. But the visual. It's hard to argue that that is not what is happening. Yeah. So, you know, and someone may be listening going, yes, it does make you lean. Maybe the point is there's no. There's no component of it that you can single out and say, yes, this compound makes you leaner. But the visual change is so dramatic that it's really hard to argue. And I think that's that's why plus it's just so strong. It's like on a milligram per milligram, you know, comparison. Oh, yeah. That, you know, 300 milligrams of of Trent can't compare to 300 milligrams of anything else. From a visual standpoint. Maybe like for strangle or like halo or something. Sure. You're not going to get that for eight weeks, you know. Yeah. And then Pac-Man comes along and eats up liver to, you know, where themselves like that. Yeah, you're not going to get that. I mean, okay, I think Trent is also thought of as being a really toxic harsh drug that's going to tear up. But I mean, realistically, I'm not advocating like, oh, man, Trent's not a big deal. But like as it stands, I don't think it is as detrimental as maybe it's made out to be, especially when used in modest dosing. I think it was back when we made it. Oh, okay. Because that I always called Trent, I call it ponscom because it just literally, I mean, you had the coffee filter. You know, you had dust in there, arguably cat hair. I mean, you try to cover it, but it has to sit there and filter through a coffee filter. And then it comes out this color that I have not seen Trent be that color in the last 15 or 20. 40. You know, pretty dark gold. It's pretty, pretty rough. Kind of the color of the pellets that it was with the glue and everything. Yeah. Exactly. And I wouldn't even argue this. I don't know about your specific experience, but myself and my clients over the years, the trend cough is nothing of what it used to be. Oh. So for me, I mean, I can run. It's been three weeks. I haven't had one yet. No. Good. I might have one more. Yeah, exactly. I did have one the other day that went, was going pulmonary and it burnt like acid. I only had four in my life. And oddly, my, this was the only one that my wife had given me the shot. And I told her like, stop. Hold on. Yeah. And I waited. And I felt it. And I might pull it out. Pull it out. And I started punching it because the pain is so bad. And I start breathing real heavy and she's freaking out. I'm like, it's just don't freak out. It'll go away. It'll go away. Wait, wait. Witnesses you have Trent cough. And she's seen a lot of, you know, stuff. She's seen the cough and everything else. It's cough. It was where it gets into, it's going to go and pulmonary. So it's going up that conveying and it's burning. Yeah. Like battery acid. It's horrible. Horrible. I've got that. That's the fourth one in my life. I've only had four and I've done a lot of gear. You could tell. It's just, it, it's just a great compliment. We use it because 99% of us see such a dramatic response from it. Can you do it? A prep without it. Sure. And it arguably won't, you know, if you leave it out, it won't get in the way as much with your sleep. You don't have to deal with a lot of the sides. But I agree with you. And I said this. I've said this for years. And people, you know, like, oh, that's not responsible for you to say that. I can't believe you're seeing it. But I haven't seen the blood work that has said this is horrendous on, you know, kidney values and everything else. I have not seen that. No, and to that, no, I, I mean, I imagine it would be easier to get. Listen, I'm coming at this from just the perspective of, I'll call myself a bro scientist, meaning that as a bro scientist, I see actual results. You know what I'm saying? Meaning like, I'm not going by like, this is what a research study says. I'm talking about a decade plus of watching people use compounds at various doses and seeing what their lab work looks like, you know, so I'm a bro. But they still evidence. I've argued this time and timing and getting it on our show. It's still an evidence-based process. And that's why I don't like the label, bro science, because it gets such a negative connotation. If you have three, 19 year olds talking about what works with trend, that is what I think of bro science. I don't fair about experienced trainers who aren't using academia to base an opinion based on their experience with not only themselves, but hundreds, if not thousands of clients, there's a huge difference there. Fair enough. So there's a very broad definition of bro science. I've never once though, I've never once seen an issue. And part of that might be how we choose to use it dose wise. We're a very, very, very, very, very bulls. There are other things that can go wrong. There's outliers that you could turn and have bad labs, but may only be correlative. Yeah, may not be causative. And that is a huge difference. Yeah. And so what I can say is, is that, because if you think about it, man, there's going to be irresponsible dosing. I wouldn't start turning it 20 weeks out. I wouldn't start turning it 20 weeks out at 500 milligrams a day or more. People used to run it a lot higher than they do now. So I think that maybe some of that reputation, if you're taking 700 or 1000 trend, you're probably going to be more likely to have issues. You know what I'm saying? So I sit last six weeks, last eight weeks. Eight weeks out from a prep. I don't, you know, from a peak. I don't think that that's crazy talk. And I can just say out of my experiences of coaching and having done a lot of shows myself. I hadn't seen it being any more caustic, you know, than any other compound. Dossing it like that, dosing inspiration. So let me ask you this though, how would we, how would we replace it? You know, what would you do without it? How, how would you set a cycle up? Is there anything you would, would you just do the same exact thing, minus the trend, or would you try to add something else to the mix? I'm down with DHB. Yeah, you know me. Okay. Now I really think it has a very, very similar. Okay. It's not the same. Yeah. But I can't think of another compound based on my experience of using in place of trend that even comes close to trend. So if you have trend, arbitrary numbers make my point, trends of 10. Yeah. DHB might be like a seven or an eight, and then everything else you might try to put in there to, to make up the difference of trend is like a three. Yeah. Okay. DHB to me is a, it's a distant second. But it still works relatively well. And you can get rid of a lot of those side effects from the sleep to the sweats to, you know, all that arguably the, edginess, you know, I prep for a long time on my wife usually says until about two or three weeks out. I really don't know that you're prepping, but she can tell two things on a month trend. I get quiet because my idea of avoiding, not conflict, but avoiding frustration, everything is kind of keeping to myself. Yeah. That's number one. Number two, she says you have a metallic smell. It's not be, it's not offensive, but it's metallic. She goes, I can, I can smell it like on your breath and in your sweat. It's definitely not healthy. Whatever that's because I know it. Yeah. I know this while you're talking about. Yeah. Yeah. It can't be. And you know, it's well, so you can do sometimes in your opinion, like, yeah. I don't know if that's right. Yeah. I have a neat, many, and spheragus in quite a while. I don't think that's, you know, so we talked a little bit about DHB, die hydra-bomb non, which would be like test breaks down into DHT and now we're talking DHB. So basically aqua poise breaking down into this. Last time we brought it up, we had a few people who said, it is rough on your labs. And I reached out to labs because I figured, yeah, we, you and I hadn't really seen much of it. And I'm going to tell you completely honestly, I ran it twice and it was years ago and in those days we didn't do like, it was labs on cycle very often. You were told to do labs like, you know, a couple of times a year, make sure that everything's good. I'd probably check them three times a year and it was harder to get labs back then. That said, I didn't notice anything different after my cycle was over. Last did say he said, you know, I have seen higher liver enzymes with it. Have you seen any changes with DHB in lab work? Only longer term. Okay. And I don't know why that is. I don't know if it's because it's such a long ester that it takes a long time to build blood levels and then when you get other longer than say try and ask today. And quite frankly, I have to put this in because this is a bit of a caveat. Okay. Okay. The longer trends I don't like agree because if there's going to be a change in blood markers, I will see it with the longer acting, you know, the hex and amputate, but I won't see it with the acetate. Now it could just be not even the ester, but the fact that we're running the trend acetate for a shorter duration because of prep. That's a good point, man, because I'm with you 100% and we've talked about that before, but some of our listeners might not have heard it. I'm with you 100% trying to ace for me. And what I've done with clients or myself in the past, I would be the only way I'd go. And I think to the last time I ran DHB for a while. Yeah. Was about a year and a half ago. And I noticed that I did get a lot more left, argic. Almost kind of heavy-footed. Okay. The longer I took it and we're talking like maybe I might have ran it. I'm guessing I'd have to check, but for then I've got the notes for anybody who's like he doesn't keep no hand got notes. So I've got so many notes that I can't keep track of my notes. 14, 16 weeks. So the last maybe three, four weeks, I thought to myself, man, I'm just feeling a little bit more run down a little bit more heavy-footed. So it could have been, and I didn't do labs at that point. I did labs about another four or five weeks later, and they were not. There was nothing that really stood out, but there could have been at that time because I had stopped the DHB prior to doing the bloodwork maybe four weeks prior. But anyway, that could have that there may be a connection there with that feeling. Yeah. Yeah. With the blood markers may be being a little bit elevated. I have not seen anything. Paul said it too. Because I asked him about it. Paul Barnett, he said he thought that he saw some stuff online. And I wonder how long, what that length of usage was and what that dosage was for the people who had the higher, you know, and how bad they were. Would they just slightly elevated or were they egregious? Well, here's so here's the thing, man. Honestly, like I go with the things I know and a lot of times, and I get it, people want to experiment with different compounds and see how this works and what that does. When you find that like at the end of the day as a coach, my goal isn't to like experiment with you and see what, you know, what I want to do is get to the things that work, you know. And so generally, we found if we are going to take it up a notch, we go to trend. I mean, I might have a guy who just does test in maybe a little bit of windstrile the end of a prep that might be all he wanted to do, right? If maybe we go to test and mast and if he wanted to take it another steps, then we go to test mast and trend. And you know, so it's so DHB isn't something I've done with clients, honestly. It's not a been to go to compound. I just haven't felt like I needed it and we've been able to get to a result that said, you know, it came up a few episodes ago. You see, Suma doesn't want to run trend. He said, hey, you know, just don't want to feel the edginess from it. Yeah. So, and he's looking like do we're like, I think we're 10, 12 weeks out and he asked, can we do a show it like eight weeks? Yeah, let's do it. So now we're eight weeks out and we're starting it up pretty soon. So we'll keep track. We'll get notes and I'll keep you guys posted as to what happens with that one individual, you know. And just to piggyback off of what you said, I think that that's a smart move is a coach, a good coach, especially in the cut phase, prep phase. Right. You don't want to be gambling and experimenting. No, you want to keep that familiar so that you know that the vast majority of people respond to this specific compound. This way. So it really is a better idea to go, especially in a prep. To go with the compounds that you know how you respond or or have a good idea of how you're going to respond, experiment in the off season or experiment during a cut phase when you're not going to get on stage. So that you can figure out what works. And if it's not working all that great, then it doesn't impact. It'll have lots of an impact on the end result as far as potentially you get on stage. You go, yeah, they didn't go. Yeah. So I look forward to seeing though what we get out of it. So D.H.B. would be the potential to replace her for trend. Man, you should get some labs for us. Let us know, you know, maybe like whatever six weeks in or whatever. I'd love to see, you know, just draw like a, you know, just your basic liver markers even see what we can do. Well, I'm seven weeks out now. So I'm not going to go in all here any labs at this point. You don't like to do that. I know. I don't because I don't want that added. Then I have to make the decision if they're not good to be like, oh, great. Yeah. Everything is going great. But I, and my brain, I'll be honest. I'll be like, you know what, I'm going to stick it out for the next seven weeks. So I just hate to say it, but I'd rather not know. I'm being completely transparent. You know, I get it, man. And I don't think it. I'm not going to mark you as being irresponsible for that because you, you went in prepared. Right. You knowing where your health was to start. Well, someone's going to say, you're old. You're 55. You need to, you, you need, you need, you need. I mean, there might not be wrong, skim. No, here's my argument though, too. That is, and I don't mean this to use specifically to anyone who would say that. Yeah. Just not your fucking business. And that's true to you, man. And the end of the day, you take care of you. Yeah. And at the end of the day, I'll take care of me. Yeah. And that's how it's going to be. And people can judge that. That's okay. Or I wouldn't say that. I'm comfortable saying that because it, I just, it'll be two minutes. And I will have forgotten about this because I just don't give a shit what people think. Yeah. At the end of the day, I need to be comfortable with the decisions I've made. I've made my decisions I'm gear for many years. I know the ramifications and the potential consequences. Better than most. And I, this is the decision that I made. And it is what it is. We got to respect that guys. And if you don't come up below. Or not. Or not. Or not. Or not. Okay. Listen. So I'm going to segue into a bunch of questions. We're going to try to power through a bunch of stuff. If guys, we got a bunch of them. The last couple episodes have freaking killed at Skip. We've gotten like a ton of really positive feedback from listeners. So it's cool. And if you guys have questions to be verbose, but you know that that's just, Well, there's one last of us, right? So there's more time for me to talk. If you're in the market for protein powder, check out truenutrition.com. They literally have like every protein powder under the sun. I go with their cold filtered weight isolate or their team skip blend. I prefer the chocolate peanut butter cup, but there's a few flavors that I like. Let me know if you have any questions about that. Sorry, my wife should get to the P protein isolate. It's rare to find a P isolate. Most of them are concentrated. So the isolate is super low in carbs regardless of your diet. They will have a protein powder for you. And you get to flavor how you want and buy it by how many of your pounds you want. So check them out. Turnutrition.com. They're the first company that ever supported our podcasting. So we support them. You can support us by shopping with your nutrition and using our code. Here we go. All right. So question for the next BSG. When and how do you incorporate practice peaks going into a show? I know all variables won't be the same as peak week for example. Say a couple of weeks out training and cardio will still be high. So how would you judge your best looking practice weeks? If you still have yet to drop the fatigue, all of that stuff. Currently he's seven weeks out. He's six foot seven and 250 pounds. He's going to be I guarantee you this. He's going to be the tallest guy on stage. Yeah, no question. He says not working with the coach. So he's doing this on his own. Okay. That matters. He says thanks guys. Think big podcast. Get me through my our long commute to work every day. Thank you for listening, brother. The reason I say it matters is because if you don't have a coach, then a child kind of peak week. At least playing with a few things, especially water manipulation is very important. If you're with a good coach and I have changed my position on this over the years because I've been doing this a long time. Good, my opinion. Good coaches don't do trial runs. They have a method. There are exceptions obviously, but I think by and large they have their methods. They have done them so many times that the results are incredibly predictable. If you're an outlier, if you are older, if you tend to carry more water than the average person. Those can be exceptions where as a trainer, you might go, yeah, I got to get an idea here about how hard we can go to manipulate and shift water and see what that visual change is going to look like it may not be. It doesn't need to be a hundred percent of the protocol that you're going to use to get on stage. But something to be able to get a response so that you can say, okay, we did this and this was the response that gives you a little bit of an idea as far as if you need to be more aggressive when it comes time to actually peak or if you were too aggressive and you need to pull back. Some people will look great pulling water and arguably using you know hydrochlorothiicide or a die aside, whatever the preference is. And they look great. They'll look absolutely shredded the main tame fullness and everything else and a lot of this has to also do with how you're loading when you're loading in relation to the shift of water. But then there are people who you lose water and you just go flat. Yeah. Like lose everything. Nobody's no lines exactly. So in situations like that, if I had a client who came to me and said, you know, I've done this a couple times. This is what I did and I just ended up like dog shit. It wasn't very aggressive. Then I'd be like, oh, then I'd have to take a look at, okay, how did that all? How did that protocol manipulating water stack up against how you loaded your water and take it that time? What the timing was? Like as an example, did you dry out first and then load or did you load and you in fill and spill and then you cleaned it up with the diuretic use or with the water manipulation? There are a lot of variables in there. Again, this is one of those things and I respect the fact that he's doing it without a coach. I even as a coach, I think that's great. I did it for years and years and years and loved it and took pride in it until I couldn't. And then I hired someone who, you know, I could trust you know, to be able to. But she's done it a long time and that was very recent, like real recent guys. Yeah. So it just depends the best case scenario though is go with a trainer who is incredibly experienced and has a great track record because you're going to eliminate a lot of that guesswork and you're going. You're literally just paying for their experience and you're paying for that very predictable outcome. I like that. A couple things all thrown in. So just just practicing in general. I look at every load that we do. Like I see the diet is being a series of depletion and loading, depletion and loading. We might not need to load that much at the beginning. You know, you might have long periods. It might be three weeks, you know, four weeks and we haven't done a load. But once we get into that pattern of doing a load, I'm always looking at that as feedback as to what we're going to do for the load into the show. Now that doesn't cover water manipulation. You know what I mean? Ideally, if we get you absolutely peeled, we might not have to do anything with water, you know? And I know we say that skip. But that's like, and of course, every coach wants that. Like these are the perfect scenarios. And I think that the better you get at it, the more consistently you can achieve not having to do anything to drop water. Part of it too is like, I think sometimes in my experience it's been like, how early did we start the diet? You know what I mean? Like because the early you start the diet, the leaner you can get. That's just going to be a formula always. Was it a 10 week diet? Because you're probably not going to be as lean as the guy who did 20 weeks. You know, where do you hold water? Yeah. I always love to do this. Don't ever as a listener of you or don't ever say you hold it in the fat cell. That cannot physiologically it is impossible. There are there's lipids in a fat cell. Yeah. You hold the water around the fat cells. That's why you hold more water in your fatty or areas. If your low back is still fat and you hold water, where are you going to hold it in your lower back? One of the things before I move to the top, I hear the next question is this. If you wanted something to try to see what water manipulation will do just for a regular load, load with a lot of water, like a set amount, like, okay, I have a leader in between my load meals all day for my load. If you're loading five meals as an example. The next time you do that, limit your water considerably. Mm-hmm. During your load day and see what you look like as that day progresses and the following morning, you arguably should be drier the following morning because all those carbs need water. And if you're not providing it, it has to pull it subq. Yeah. So you arguably should be drier. But then you have to see, did I not fill out as much? And what that balance looks like because you can't fill out as much if you don't, if you're not taking in or you don't have enough water or you're not holding enough water. So then you, and everybody has that balance. No one's going to be 100% full and 100% dry. You have to give up some to get the other. There are people who are exceptions like the Philheats and the Nick walkers and where they just always look like they, they're just not usually off. MirMortals like us, we have to find that balance and it's individual. I have to give up a little bit of fullness to get drier. Yeah. And if I want fullness and I am focused on fullness, I have to give up a little bit of dryness to do it. And some people look better, drier. Some people look better, a little bit fuller. Yeah. You got to figure out what your best look. It's not about. It's not only about how shredded my glutes can be. I think that's one of the biggest mistakes we have made as competitors. Yes, that is unfortunately a mark of conditioning. But you got to have that balance and what works specifically for your physique. Agreed. And you can win shows without peeled glutes. I've seen it happen. Absolutely. Other thing I was going to add is that in Scott's book, be your own bodybuilding coach, he does talk about practice peaks. And he'll do it several weeks out. And he has a complete formula that he'll, and he used to run Dave Henry through that. So Scott is super analytical and everything. He does. He's got his formulas. And he's got some fun stuff, man, including I don't know if you ever heard him talk about the head down tilt. Have you heard about this? So there was, they discovered this with astronauts and anti-gravity. They realized that there was a diarrhea suspect. That was the fact that astronauts were experiencing. They were losing water. And it had to do with your head. So you can mimic this with your head being lower than your feet. And oh, he. Scott would literally bring telephone books or Cinder blocks to the hotel and prop up the foot of his bed for his own shows. To sleep that way. Six inches, sixty, sixty, three. Why am I not surprised? I believe it was. And I haven't tried it, man, but he said it works phenomenal. It's in his book. So if you guys aren't just did go to blyobcoach.com, you can get Scott's book there. And I recently last year, I can't remember what it was. But I was like, I want to brush up on water manipulation. So I went and Scott's got a whole chapter on it. So he's got a bunch of good stuff in there. So we, I got TSA pre-check. Oh, yeah. And clear. Oh, you got clear. I, I got clear. I need to get clear. Yeah. It's, it's freaking awesome. But I have a feeling that if I, if I have two Cinder blocks in that luggage. I'm going to, I'm going to be questioned. I'm pretty sure. Yeah. I'm going to pull me aside. They're going to look at you sideways with two Cinder blocks. I got to get drier. Yeah. You have to bring the book to reference it. Yeah. Read right here. All right. So I guess we're on a prep kick here. Um, next question is what's the best body hair trimmer? Let's just talk about a hairy model. One blade. One blade. Do what is that? Because everybody is talking about the one blade. I have not used it. That sounded like an infomercial intro. Yeah. It's, um, it, not only for your face, but for your body. It's, it's, it's, it's panasonic. But I'm telling you, and the blades, even though I get a lot of refills. And so the blade will easily last a month and rip through. It doesn't obviously cut as close as a laser, but it's as close as you're going to get for the time that you're going to spend. You can just rip through and shave your body. I'm not kidding in like, I mean, 10 15 minutes tops. It's, it's, it's great. But I use it on my, uh, on my face almost daily because it's faster now. It works. It works. It works. It works. It works. It works. Then it works. Okay. Then I'm going to find a look for but when you use a high hand, bron. It's still takes longer. The one blade just rip rip rip in in three minutes. I'm like, I'm good to go. Okay. I gotta check this thing out. I, um, so about to hear removal, I've used, uh, like a body groomer where it has, like one side has like the clippers on it. Yeah. Yeah. And then the other side has closed, but it's decent. Yeah. And I want to say first for Contest Prep. And just for a general purpose, like you don't have to get it all the way to the skin in order to be acceptable. You know, like sometimes people think like, oh, it's still they're stubble. Yeah, I can feel it. Yeah, you can feel it. But judge this. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So there's a razor because I do like that smooth feeling. Yeah. So I have to be careful to see it. If I do the razor and my forearms, give me three, four days in my arms get covered with ingrown hairs. Oh, really? Just my forearms. And I've heard other people, I heard Scooby-Prep say that one time about a different body part of his. Yeah. That's like, oh, yeah, I get that two of my forearms. So I'll just, I don't think people are concerned about as much about their forearms as they are, other sensitive areas. Yeah, true. But you know, it's not a good look when your arms come in pimples, right? So I will just trim those down right to leaving the hairs. You know what I mean? But you can't see it. So it's fine. And I would suggest to, if you're doing a kind of test prop and that's what you're doing about here and move before condition your body to it, don't do it. Like, don't just start the week out. You're right. How early? Because I mean, I'll tell you what too. I've got a couple guys that are noncompetitors. And we're going to have to have a talk about doing some trimming. Because I can't even see what's going on sometimes, man. Yeah. And you know, here's the thing. And I don't want to offend anybody by saying this. But thankfully, my wife has the same repulsive reaction to body here that I do. If I go a couple weeks and don't, I mean, I've shaped since I was in high school. I was picked on by a friend of mine because we were having a tip. My best friend that I worked out with in high school and in front of the whole class, I said something smart to me goes, well, at least I don't shade my legs. And the whole class started to laugh at me. And I'm going, I'm a bodybuilder. You don't follow like a dumbass. But it's always been an issue for me. It's just something that I've always done. But a lot of people don't. And the visuals day and night. And when it comes to being able to assess your condition, get rid of that for a quote. Yeah. Yeah. It's just your bodybuilder. I'm not trying to do what you want. And it's a person. Sometimes, you know, why is this up? They prefer that hairy. Thankfully, my wife does not. And thankfully, I'm not like Italian or, you know, super, you know, hairy, I would just, you know, I'll shave sometimes if I haven't shaved for like three months, which is rare. And I just look at it, look at it on the floor of the bathroom. And or in the shot, and I'm just looking, and I'll take a picture of it, and send it to my wife. She's like, don't do that. It's just, it just reposes me. It's just, all right. Anyway, how about this one from Chris? He says, it, okay, this is a weird one, man. He says, and I'm curious to hear what you say. Thinking about doing a deep all and pre-most cycle, just because I never tried deep all and want to try it, what is the longest that you would run deep all, thinking about eight weeks? Oh, maybe this isn't what I thought it was, because we've had a few people now talking about not using test, but using deep all as their conversion to estrogen. So deep all and pre-mo. Yeah. Assuming the pre-mo's in, excuse me, in injectable. Yeah. They still have strong patch. Woof, anyway. Sometimes cinnamon ones bite me. Yeah, injectable pre-mo with deep all, okay. Any, I'm gonna be honest, anything without a test that don't like, I just don't like it. I'm not saying it's wrong, yeah. But my first question would be, why is there no test thrown in there, bro? But it's, I was gonna say, what if they can't handle, but I mean, deep all itself is gonna have even more, I'm sure to get it. I don't know. I don't wanna say I don't wanna hear it, because that's rude. But I find it hard to believe that someone can tolerate other compounds in that, even a small amount of test and astro. And that's just odd. If you're not able to handle test astro, I mean, that's like wanting to be a stripper and you're not comfortable taking your clothes off. I can't, I don't relate to that, I don't know. That should be our intro clip right there. Yeah, I think that's what it's gonna be. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You're welcome, be welcome. I like deep all personally. I mean, the whole thing aside, you know, I think deep all is the most underrated compound out there now, based off of underrated being how do people perceive things today? You know, there's a time that deep all was like the compound. I think people just see it as an equated for some reason. They do. And I don't know why, because, well, arguably it probably makes most people hold more water than anything else. I mean, I'd rather take anodrol, I'd be harder and anodrol than I would. Yeah, yeah, there's that. Yeah, but I don't dislike deep all. I think it's just kind of been moved aside over time for whatever reason, but clearly the most anabolic, I pretty sure it's the most anabolic compound oral, right? I don't know, but I like the sound. I think it is. I'm going back to, you know, I'm old. So Tony Mandrich, when he was, yeah, they were talking about steroids and sports illustrate years ago when Mandrich was taking everything under the sun back in the 80s. And they listed all the compounds for. And I remember, because I was looking for steroids when I was a teenager, yeah, I called the pharmacies and I'd be like, do you have deep all? Do you have, you know, that type of thing? And then one day, because it was a small town, I told the story for one day of a small town, I called Zandy a Paphika, I go, yeah, I'm just wondering, do you sell deep all? Do you have deep all, like, yeah, I'm like, do you have been strong? Like, yeah, I'm like, in the guy goes, is this Ken Hill? And I'm like, no, like, who's Ken of click? And I thought, yeah, you gotta be kidding me. Like, who the hell was that? How would you know what's made? It's a real small town, because you were the very small and we were a little tiny town. That's what I couldn't figure out for my 60,000 people at that time, but I'm like, how bad is my luck that I call a place that recognizes my voice because this Ken Hill? No, this is skip. Yeah. That's how it was for. Yeah. Oh, God. Yeah. All right, how about this one? Best. I don't think we really gave him a solid answer for that. OK, let me ask you this. Let me ask you this. So test. Well, it's add test in there. Let's assume that there is test. Test. Primo. Deepa. Yeah. I think you could save money by leaving the Primo. Go with test and deepa. I mean, you're going to take deepa when you want to grow. Right? I mean, it's not going to be something that, you know, if you take deepa, you're like, you're like, I'm looking to put on some size. Yeah. You're all of our size arguably with test options. You're going to save money. And at least you know, or have a better idea that you test astronaut will be real. Versus the Primo bowl and potentially not being realistic. Well connected. And you know, for sure, the things that you're buying and that you're primal is legit. So yeah, there have been Primo problems lately. So there is that. Sure. All right, move on then. OK, fill up from over at the Facebook group. Best advice for growing lat width. I've increased the total weekly volume to 20 sets. Now, I don't know how many sets he was doing before. But here's his exercises. I do assisted pull ups. Wide grip, lat pull downs. Single arm pull downs. Straight arm pull downs. V bar pull downs. Changing just to the program. Have been made within the last several months. So I know I'm just being impatient. Saying he's done all these things. And he hasn't given in enough time to see what's going to make a difference. Yeah, just wondering how long and what you all have done to improve your lat width because my width sucks. So it was mine. And it sucked more when I relied on doing basically on that perspective that a muscle grows in one direction. And specifically from pull down movements. And then I changed it up because I thought this after years, this just isn't working. And I started growing more and I back grew wider and bigger. So honestly, I would say, I don't want to say do exactly the opposite of what you're doing. But keep the chins in there at some point and change all those other exercises to different versions of a row. And then come back in six to eight months and tell us how much your back is growing. Oh, and cut your sets down because no one is hitting 20 sets a back at 100% anyway. I like that. I can't argue with any of that, man. I made my best progress doing about two to three exercises for back, two to three sets per exercise. And that was it. It was a pull down. It was a dumbbell row. And then it would be a second, another row, maybe a T-bar row. I like T-bar. I know that T-bar gets bagged on nowadays. But I don't know why. Yeah, I did, you know, did well for me. So I think it comes down to how you execute it. Yeah. A lot of times it ends up being a partial. And it's a lot of about, you know, tons of plates and a bicep movement or a shrug. Yeah. It's a different. The only thing I would add is every now and then maybe every second or third workout finish off with pullovers. Oh, yeah. Because pullovers are highly underrated. The great for the back development up underneath the armpit. I have found more growth and progress out of dumbbell pullovers than I have pretty much any other exercises far as any type of lap hold on or anything in that specific area. Can you replace it with a cable pullover or a specific, why, let me ask you that why specifically dumbbell? Because I'm with you. And I think there's something real special about the dumbbell pullover book. I think it's stability. Oh, OK. I just think that movements that are more stable that you can. The more stable the exercise, the more arguably the more weight you can move. Like as an example, cable pull down your limited by how many times if you're your abs or you're shaking because it's heavy. Maybe it's too heavy. I mean, there's always that too. But with the dumbbell pullover, you're not, you're not limit. It's just a more stable exercise or even a machine pullover for that matter. But I still feel that the cable pullover or stiff arm pull down, if you will, andres canely, attack your back like a Viking, like 1986, muscle fitness or relax, whatever. Those movements work. I know. Those movements still work well in their kind of a adds variety. But myself personally, I would go with the dumbbell and a bench. And I don't like lying crossbench. I like going to length of the bench because don't like the hips lower than the shoulder. It's a vulnerable position for the shoulder joint. I think it's a bad idea to have the shoulders lower. And the argument was always it's a better stretch. Well, yeah. And the more you stretch a naturally muscle or a joint, the more risk you have for injury. I don't think you need to like arch your back to stretch. You know what I mean? I think you can stretch the lat from completely. I mean, that's just been my experience. I picked those up from John Meadows. He hit him in the end of a lot of his programs. And when we were doing his plans back 2012 to 2015 and 16, like almost all of his routines that we did seem to have a dumbbell pull over toward the end. And the reason I really liked it, the stretch. I think that there's a good stretch out of that exercise. And now they're saying that the fascia is its own system. And there's finding that that is much more related. The fascial system is related, much more to growth than we ever thought it was before. So when you're finishing, you've got all that blood in there and you finish with a stretch move like that, not even just for back for pullovers. But it could be overhead tricep extensions, you know, for tricep. Yeah. That stretch position stretching the fascia and the fascia system, it can absolutely, they're finding now and they're learning more about it that is going to contribute to a lot more growth than we ever thought before. So stretch was the number one thing I was missing back when we were doing those medals plans. And it was the number one thing that I, well, that and I got heavy. I just went to heavier weight to I really worked on progression. So I can't say it was just the one thing. But stretch was a big component of when I made the absolute most progress in my back. And that was like well into my 40s and not on a lot of gear and not doing anything special with my diet. It was only the exercises that had changed. And everything else was kind of mediocre. But I made tremendous progress compared to years back, man, running way more gear, eating all the food. So that would be, I guess the other tip I would give him is train with a, like, get that full range, get a good stretch. I was just lacking it, man. But just a couple inches sometimes, you know, just a little bit more is all that would have taken. I've heard that. What else we got here? Hi, you can skip right over that. Yeah, as I was talking. I've done this for a while together. Right? What I know of the joke you don't even make. Those was what she said. Okay, hey guys, new to the channel, 55. Another tall guy, 55, 250 pounds, 6, 7 on 3. Maybe it's the same guy. It's got to be the same guy. And based on those stats, I don't want my wife to. He's gonna. Either that or like everybody. I think he's a big, big tall, especially if you wear a suit. You know, that sort of thing. He should be like, I'm busy tonight. Oh my gosh. Okay. So 55. He's, uh, 250, 6, 7. He's on 300 milligrams of TRT per week. Work crazy. And the other guy was getting ready to get on stage. So I think this is someone else. Work crazy hours each week. Work seven days a week with my business on top of a full-time job with over time. Been on TRT for a few years now and still feel like crap most days. Blood work yearly, um, for the script. Um, had most everything checked by the doctor. Everything comes back. Looks pretty good. Nothing majorly out of whack. Don't get why I still feel like crap on that dose. A suggestion or other compounds I should try to help to feel better. After work like I do, most days I don't feel like easy to get. I don't feel like even, uh, looking at a dang weight much less or work out. Uh, I need help, but don't want to throw my money away with the hopes of getting better. Any suggestions would be greatly appreciated. I do have a suggestion, but it doesn't have anything to do with gear. He's not going to like it as he. No, it's, and it's probably not going to happen. You know, life, our lives, our lives and our schedules, our schedules, our schedules, stress levels and, and the demands that we have, you know, for our time every day. But when you're reading that, I'm, I'm just thinking bro, if, if I was, and I am 55, but if I had a schedule like that, I probably wouldn't want to be looking at the gym either. And I'd be feeling rundown, I don't know that it has anything to do with gear. Yeah, no. You know, that, that's a lot of, you're going to mean different directions. You're working full time. You've got side hustles. You've got training. You know, I was wondering your quality is sleep. Cortisol levels, all that. It's, you know, you're not 25. I hate to say that. And I don't like it when people say it to me. Yeah. But there's some truth. To that, I had a whole lot more energy at 25 and 30, even if I was running crazy trying to raise four kids. If you five, I don't have any kids. Sometimes I look around and I'm like, I just don't have a very stressful life, but I feel a big to share. And I don't know that it has anything to do with gear. So he's looking specifically, you know, at the gear. So I would say this. I mean, you could always increase the testosterone dose for whatever reason I would check your, you know, the little things, your estrogen to testosterone ratio. Cortisol levels, little things, say little things. Still important, but DHA and just all, all those thyroid. Just to see if something is just a little. Little off. It could be something minor. Yeah. I think that no matter what he does though, if he's that stressed, you're not going to be able to make up for it. Unfortunately, you know, there's a tough. There's got to be, there's got to be something in there. And I mean, if it's for you over trained, are you still trying to train a lot? You know, I probably would look at my training first. Look at my diet. Is your diet crap? Is it realistic to have a big training plan, you know, with this situation? Yeah, would he be better off? Maybe critailing it back. Maybe he trains three days a week on days that aren't quite as busy or, I don't know. You know, I mean, something. Or there are two hour sessions or I don't know. How much cardio are you trying to cram in there? You know, too. Is there a cut? There's a lot. There's a lot to unravel. I think that one of the biggest things that I know I need, and I see other people benefiting from is sleep as we age. Like, man, you take a 22 year old or even a 30 year old, and they, Miss sleep, you know, consistently and still getting into great shape and looking credible and win shows. As we get to be older at like in your 40s, even. You, it's just so much more important. And I think at 55, you're asked, it's kind of like saying, like, I can't run 10 miles an hour. You know, I can't run 15 miles. Why can't I run 20 miles an hour? You know, I want to be able to run 20 miles an hour. Like, you, you can recognize you just can't do that. I don't know. Like, you, you have limitations, you know, and that's what I just see here is like, he's got limitations. And if that's what his life is, then there's not going to be anything you can take. That's going to help. But in fact, I think taking more man is going to probably make, would detrimental. Yeah, because it's not helped. Those situations where it's like man, he, he worked until he had hard tech, you know. Check your HRV, you know, how is your HRV trending? That's huge. For people who don't track their sleep, I implore you to track. There's just so much information these days with, even just your basic. Sleep monitor. They can tell you everything from your HRV to, you know, obviously resting heart rate and stuff. And below you're resting heart rate typically the higher your HRV. I know myself and with clients, if you, if, if I or my client start to trend down with their HRV over a couple weeks, you can almost predict that the next couple weeks after that at some point, they're going to start to feel that. Whether it be, you know, there were covering the gym or energy levels, just not usually very good. The exception is when you're in prep and it's going to be low and typically going to be low. And there isn't a whole lot you can do about it. But you still want to focus on trying to get as much quality quality sleep again. It's so important. And I think people tend to gauge their quality of sleep based on, oh, I can function during the day. And also functioning because you're taking in more synthetic caffeine. Yeah. You're taking in things that are stimulus that are, you know, stressing your drainals too. And in the, yeah, it's getting you through your day. But it, it arguably is decreasing your quality of life at the same time slowly. Yeah. I agree, man, 100%. Somebody asked us about methylene blue in the chat here. What's up, chat? Hope you guys are doing good. Have you had any experience with methylene blue? I haven't. It was something that I would have added had I not been going into prep. But, you know, I had already kind of tried to keep my variables constant at that point. The reddit has always been working since I started that in late November. I did pull that back a little bit for reasons I don't get into now. But, SLU, I added, you know, I even told you I'm like, I don't even see a difference. I have it in there now just because it's constant variable. But I, I'm not going to, I don't kitchen sink things. I don't like to, yeah, I'd love to add it to see. But if I add it and I've got so many other things in there right now, I wouldn't be able to tell whether it's working or what impact it had. It is something that I'll go to in the off season after the shows. And take a closer look at it. I, I'm paper. I think it looks great. But I don't judge things based on what they look like on paper. I have to apply them practically and then see for myself and judge. Unbiously whether it is working. I'm revisiting it for a third time now. And I think I have something figured out with it. So, and, and there's, I can't remember his name, but I've been following a researcher who has, I've read some end up stuff that was pretty, like it got me thinking. And it got me looking at it in a different way. So, initially, I was trained to load it, like take it every day. Take it every day and I found skip that I got what was probably like a serotonin syndrome effect. Oh, okay. Like I started it and it wasn't a crazy high dose. Like I started it five built to 15, taking 15 a day and after several days or a week or so. I just found myself like too floaty feeling and a little disconnected. So, I stopped it. Started again in a slightly lower dose and eventually got to that same place. But, and so I kind of wrote it off, but I'm bringing it back in now, taking it intermittently. Okay. So, I've heard that. It will do something to basically, I basically, my respiratory system doesn't always function the way it should. And it can help with re-wiring that. And so, I'll use that in times that I can tell that my breathing isn't as good as it should be. And it can be beneficial in that instance. And I've seen the difference even with small doses. Now, that said one of his big issues was in and I can't quote the research because I, so take this for what it's worth guys. This is me telling you second hand information that I've picked up. That basically our our respiratory system is already wired really well. And if it's already running well, then you don't want to go re-wiring it. So it might not be beneficial for everyone to use everything. You know what I'm saying? A lot of times we're like, hey, I need more mitochondria, I guess. I didn't know that mitochondria was a thing. You know what I mean? So we all like, then what can I do for that? I'll take this in this in this. It's not always a beneficial thing. And I do have more that I want to put together and say about that a little bit more in our prepared fashion. I think there's benefits, but I wouldn't just throw it in. And I, so I guess I'll say echo what you're saying, man, because that's initially what I did. I was like, I'll try it. Give it a fair shake. See what happens across the board. And now I'm doing it in a more controlled fashion. And I am seeing great benefit, but it's also something that I'm not doing every day. Yeah. And then that was part of the reason that I wanted to stay away from because the new was a possibility that I might respond well to it for a couple weeks and then not. Yeah. And that wasn't something that I was in a position at that point going into a prep that I wanted to do with. Stuff on in the livestream says, I used mentally and blue for the last 36 weeks in one of my body building contest on Saturday. Dude, congratulations, man. He says, everyone reacts differently. Some people get overwhelming anxiety. Even, even energy and other wanted unwanted side effects. So, you know, that's interesting, man. All right. I want to just look over at Patreon really quick just to see if we had something else here. See if we can refer this one from Casey said, what are some meal tips for an airport key ask? Like, good luck. Dude, I got some fish and chips from the airport yesterday in Seattle. It was so good. It's dependent on where you are. I've had really good barbecue in North Carolina too. I don't think we're talking diet food though, are we? This is like body building anymore. Is it fish and chips? Yeah. Now they do have, which I think is kind of cool. A lot of the major airports now have this, I don't know, just group the name. But they're, they're wood vending machines. Okay. It have everything from organic sandwiches to, I said, Sam, sandwiched sandwiches. Samages. It's not, it's not. Why, why how do you, library? Yeah, sandwiches at that library. I picked the library as well for tree. But yogurt type, you know, kind of healthier type. I want to say it's like farmland or it's something like that. But, and they're, you know, they're refrigerated and everything. But even then, it's something that is a bodybuilder you're going to get, it may get you through. Yeah. But good luck finding them. And the cool thing is, is they're typically at the gates. Oh, so that's kind of nice because a lot of times when she gets to the gates, you've passed all the opportunities to get, you know, really good food. But the only thing you can get is I call it my wife's meal. Yeah. Liquid meal. You can get really good alcohol. It's our butt. I think she likes her butt. Because it's in better excuse to drink and not have me busker balls about it. But food is tough. Yeah. It's for convenience. It's for practicality. It's certainly not for health. Oh. So this trip that we just took skip. I prepared and brought food with me for the first half. I didn't plan on doing it for the whole time, you know? And I knew we were going to be going out to eat some. So, but I did, and I felt good about that, man. I just can't go to like complete chaos. So I mean, my thought is is just bring your food. If you bring your food, then you don't have to worry about it. It's not going to be like the best, most delicious gourmet thing. In fact, it's going to be cold or even room temperature. But I'll eat it. And then I'm not hungry anymore. So I'm done. You know, I'm back to, you know, the rest of my life. I'd say this too is freeze your meals ahead of time. Like two, three days in advance. If you take that chicken in meal and rice and you put that in the freezer the night before your flight, it'll be cold. And it will be frozen the next day. But it's not going to be like rock frozen. It will freeze that for like three days. It's going to be a rock, you know. And that's going to probably take you put that in like a backpack several meals. They're going to take all day for that to thought out, you know. You know, and people will sometimes say, well, you know, I don't want to take my meals and for that's a listen. If it's just being in silence as I can be, if you want to be successful, it's a bodybuilder. And you're not structured and you're not regimented and understand that that's part of the game. And then you're just not going to be very good at this endeavor. You don't have to be if you don't want to travel with food and that's fine. But there's really not much excuse outside of airports to travel and not have access to good food. Because you can go to any middle of the road or higher restaurant. And they will make you plain chicken breasts and vegetables. Yeah. So when you say or client says to me, well, you know, is it this restaurant? And I didn't have any choice. No, you did. You just decided to be normal like everybody else because you didn't want to explain it or you wanted to be part of the group. There's nothing wrong with that. Yeah, but at least own it because there are way too many options for you to still eat well. You just didn't want to. Yeah, I can't argue with any of that, man. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Go to teamskip.com. Reach out to skip over there. Unless it always not here, go to bodybary.com to reach out to Andrew for coaching. You can hit me up. Agnally dies at Gmail.com. And of course, thank you to Trinutrition.com. User code think over there. Saltilament source.ca for Canadians. They have great deals of change week to week. Patreon. Guys, let's put a new thread up over at Patreon and get some more questions going. Guys, if you are this far into the show and you haven't subscribed, then you probably should. Because if you're this far and you enjoyed it, right? Or at least it passed your time. We appreciate having you guys here. And of course, if you haven't hit the like button, man, that helps us out a freaking ton. So please hit the like button. Leave us a comment, comment with questions for the next show. And for another episode of Blood Sweat and Gear Guys, we will see you soon. Thanks, Gap.

Most people always think that the solution for legging body parts is a different training split or some fancy stuff or whatever. Legging body parts are there because the movement quality is not the right one because you are not hitting the muscle right one. So you need to dial it down and get to the right movement pattern before you can put out an intensity or frequency or whatever you prefer by yourself but in the end you must be sure to hit the muscle right. I would describe intensity of having the mental capability to stay in the perfect form and really have a maximum exhaustion of the target muscle. Yes, yes. That's such an energy-consuming process that it will melt you completely down. And nobody can tell me if you put that intensity in that you can do of an exercise more than two or three sets because then the intensity just hasn't been there. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building. I'm Big Ron Parlo and of course I'm here with Dusty Handshot and the producer Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment and ring the bell. Yes, ring the bell. Remember I am mutant.com. Here's your code's Dusty and Big Ron. Get your all in, get your ISO surge and everyone should get on the gear. Okay, we are here, special guest today. We're not going to bore you with just us three charming meatheads talking about how we're used to be good at something. We're going to bring in Steph and Angel. Yes, the boss of Outlaw, boss of Outlaw, boss of Outlaw, and Kenzel. Good to have you on the show, my friend. I'm on it. Yeah, all the way from Vienna. First question, who is the oldest of us? Ah, me? I think you're, you got them. I think you're a little older than I am, Ron. So that's, that's fine. I'm 81. I'm 81. I just a few months. You got me by a few months. I have you. No. You and I are the same. We're both 80. Or do you mean the 1781? Yeah, yeah, I'm a pretty 81. Oh, no, I'm 75. So there you go. Oh fuck, okay. Yeah, oh fuck. You're a little bit too bad. He's like, oh fuck. I'm at the youngest for once in my life at May of 81. That wasn't quite the reaction I was looking for. But I said 75. We're shocked. He's even alive. It's like, oh, we're fucked. Fell out of his chair. But at least we're at the same generation, I would say. Yeah, oh yeah. Which is not that often, they know what's for. No, no, we get irritated by a lot of the same things I'm sure. So it's good to have you on. Obviously, you know, you're one of the guys behind the scenes with his fingers in a lot of projects. You know, helping a lot of these athletes and I know there's a lot of mystique to what, you know, coaches are doing with guys and everyone trying to copy everyone's protocols and, you know, I think you're one of the reasons why cereal made such a comeback recently, are you not? Yeah, could be. I just hear everyone at work through the steps got eat cereal postwork out. So I don't know if that's what you're doing. Yeah, I think, you know, a lot of those things get back to my personal bodybuilding career and my illnesses. So I'm, I have called it the suits of Rosa. And I had a lot of, a lot of bad episodes during my bodybuilding time and that was also the reason why it was nearly impossible for me to build muscles. So I was always on the search to find easy, digesting food. Because that was the only possibility to get the food in and not getting my digestive system to say, hey, hey, hey, that's too much. We're going to rid of it without doing any digestion. Yeah, that's, that's now more, it's 25 years ago when I actually the first Stefan classic was, but that was more in Europe, where I said that the people should eat grits. Okay, because it was so fast digested. And later, just normal caldox conflicts came into the game because actually they have the same purpose. It's not that much processed food, you know, it's easy to digest. Most people feel like it's kind of a threat for you. So you're getting something special and it's like chocolate or something like that. But the best purpose of of of of feeding the new trends with fast digestive carbohydrates, especially if the base is corn. Very good after training easy plane, cheap good stuff. We're trying to eat grits. So if it works, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, that's it. I remember that's a sales video up here in Canada. We don't see grits on the shelf. So we were all watching Ronnie Coleman's videos and we're like, oh, okay, get some grits. Because like, you know, and if our friend was going to the states or something, we'd be like, oh, he brings back a box of grits and this is a quick grits, you know, like, you're stepping a thing. It's really funny. And of course Masterpiece BBQ sauce. Yeah, we had a store, which was called Bobby's food store. He was importing British and American food. Okay. So you were able to buy that, what was it? 250 grams of grits for about $10. Oh, they are. And I went there always bought everything of them and ate a day, $10 of grits. But what I never managed to get was that fat free cheese he had. All right. Yeah, that was the kicker. The fat free cheese in the man. That was really the kicker, the fat free cheese on top. But you got to go to American Walmart for that. You got to come straight to the source, you know, the class in place. But actually, Ron, he was was my first, I would say my first idol in that sport, you know, I started to train when he was on his prime and that great material or car, with movies, we just, I just, I think they, they went randomly, the whole day, every day before training after training, I was just watching me to a local car. Yeah, the original was your documentary of bodybuilding watching J. Bozzo, meal, how I grew up. But the most fascinating thing for me of the Ronny videos was always Ronny going into black eyed piece, ordering his meal and picking out the corn of pizza or whatever it was. Why did he never order it without it? That was part of his process. That's part of the magic part of the magic. You, let's, let's talk about your beginning's bodybuilding. I, I know that from what I've heard, you know, like you mentioned with the colitis, I was trying to find foods that were easy to digest. What, how do you think, you know, what's your bodybuilding background and how do you think it, it affects you and molds you as a coach. You know, obviously the colitis is a big part of that. You got to have the tricks and work around for that. What other things do you think, you know, are kind of your experience based? I think one big thing is that I studied medicine. So when I started bodybuilding, I was that rock and roll guy playing in a black death metal band, and living the life of rock and roll got fed and ugly. And then a doctor said, it's not so wise to keep that lifestyle. Maybe we should, you should do something. And then my brother bought me a yearly membership in a gym. And actually I went in and it was love at the first site. Everything was for me so logical. I'm a spare artist. So I need everything quite quite clear, quite direct, and I need to go through a pattern. And bodybuilding actually is just like that. You know, go there, repeat, make it better, repeat, make it better, repeat. So it was just fitting so well my personality. But my own path was quite difficult because when I started, I had that quality problem. I was heavily as mad, I had a broken spine. I had a torn chest. I had a part artificial knee. I had a seven-time broken arm. So when I started bodybuilding, I would say handicap. So how many times seven times a blind eye? I had a time broken arm. Stop my gutting your mother. I got a interrupt of it. Some point that he gets to the seven-time broken arm. But I got questions. My mother said at the time I was running somewhere, I was running against something. So you broke your arm seven times just being hyper? No, sometimes for example, I broke my arm and because in that season, I broke it four times the fifth time, I didn't tell my parents and I just went to school with a broke arm. That's a boy. Because I knew I would get into serious problems and they wouldn't allow me to drive the bike and all that stuff. So when I started bodybuilding, everything was a little bit more difficult. And I had to go more deep into movement patterns. For sure, the medicine study had me because and to me and all that stuff, you know, where muscle runs, how they are innovative, how the movement is. So I was really fast and good in developing training skills. On the other hand, I need to develop very fast nutrition skills because of my personal problems with the digestion. And the third thing I was quite fast with developing chemical skills because I was just studying medicine. And in that time, I had my pharmacology seminar. So I think it was just a good combination of genetic effectors with pure love and passion for that sport because it was so fascinating with me. And my being quite retarded, and then making the best out of it. So I was competing to four, five and six. And then my wife, which I was together since 2000. Yeah, we are now together since 25 years. She came up with the idea I shouldn't keep doing the sport on a professional or on a competition level. And she was completely right because in that period of time I nearly died three times. So it was better to maybe change the site and get into coaching. And I started coaching in 2007. And it was the best decision of my life. What are some of the things that you said you nearly died three times? So were these dehydration run-ins with two? No, it was just pushing everything to the border. One time I lost so much blood because I got the qualities. I think that it was the day before the show. And I always, when I went to the toilet, I filled the toilet up with blood. So I wasn't dehydrated for the show. I was bloodless for the show. Still went on stage. It was quite serious, but it worked out somehow. Then very, really a bad story. I had a bad injection. And I refused to go to the doctor. And my temperature went up to 41.80 degrees. So I was really close for having a sexist like running our head. It was also quite close. And within that time that actually has nothing to do with bodybuilding, I had a coax in which was quite serious. Ah, okay. What I want to ask you something you casually mentioned that you were in a death metal band. Oh yeah? I just want to know, well, first of all, what did you do? Do you play guitar or your drummer? What were you doing? Base, base. Oh, okay. That's not a base player. The thunder. You know, the cool guys, which get the chicks and it's different. Yeah, yeah. I'll true. I never had a. No, no, no, I got a thunderbird right there. See, I got, has it gotten me any chicks? My wife, my wife fell nice. My wife pays no attention to my base playing whatsoever. So, um, yeah, no one played base for the chicks did they. What I want to know what the, the mentality of a hard core musician like that. What are the parallels to bodybuilding? Because just like, repetitive. Yeah, they're completely different. Yeah, they're completely different. They're completely parallel. Everything I did in my life was pushing it to whatever is possible. You know, I'm always striving for the best performance possible within any individual or even when it comes to my part. And I come out of a musical family. I had a classical scholarship with two cousins, playing at the Philharmonics. But I was the black sheep of the family. I started with clearing it. But then I turned into base and went the dark side. Yeah. And it's, it's, it's, it's, it's completely the same with bodybuilding. Try to learn a correct movement and get better in it. Because even when it comes to playing guitar or bass, if your technique isn't well, and you just go over and over and then your technique doesn't improve. You will never have fine playing skills. And I think that's the biggest parallel to, to when it comes to bodybuilding sport. Because most people always think that the solution for legging body parts is a different training split or some fancy stuff or whatever. Legging body parts are there because the movement quality is not the right one, because you are not hitting the muscle right one. Right. You need to dial it down and get to the right movement pattern before you can put out on intensity or frequency or whatever you prefer by yourself. But in the end, you must be sure to, to hit the muscle right. And that's the same with playing guitar. You, you need to have the fingers need to be in the right angle. You know, you need to have the right pattern on the system and then you can improve and practice. Yep. Just hammering in the right form. Yeah. And execution. And then get incredibly fast. Especially for that stuff. We, you have 47 pro wins, right? Is that what you're at now? 57. 57. Okay. Don't shoot him on a four years in four years. We can't keep the, the Googling can't keep up. Yeah. People aren't updating your Wikipedia fast enough for Google. No, it was, it was quite good for you. Now, yeah. Damn. What's what? What do you, what do you think you do that makes you good at coaching body builders your way? I think the biggest difference in me to, to, to some of the modern coaches, I would say most of the old school coaches are the same than me. I mean, I don't want to tell them the things they want to tell just to stay my customers. If they say it's getting boring and they want a different training split because I think then I will grow. I will say no. We go over your movement. We analyze your intensity. You have to invest more time in that. I just want to win. I don't want to make people happy. I was always happy when I loved that. Yeah. That that that usually comes then. But the way to that is, you know, I really recognize that these times, you know, people or customers or athletes want to get entertained somehow. You know, or want to feel whatever special or want to get always new things and running after new things, searching for the holy grail. And there is no holy grail. It's pure fucking work doing every day, the every same shit and getting better, better in, in what you need to do and getting better in what you do and put passion in it. That will bring success if you have the right genetics for it. But it's just not that entertaining fancy shit which will produce winners. I completely hear what you say. And there's an entire generation of competitors that have been kind of sold the idea that there's a lot of fun. I'm not selling it. Actually, if you have the right person for fun has to be in the training. Hard. Like, yeah, you know, it's, you know, it's, it's the fun is fuck I'm better than yesterday. Yeah. That needs to drive you and motivate you. Yeah. I've done the same exercise now for three weeks. I want a different one. And then exercise you do for three weeks. It's still done shit, you know. Right. Right. What, what do you obviously we've got to talk about? EERS. Huh? Yeah. I mean, that's the big news. What everyone's saying. What's going on? What's your take? What are the conversations you've been involved with? What's your eye on your eyes on your eyes? Yeah, you know, what's, what's, what's, is, is, is, is, is, I would say, kind of a son. Because I will never forget 20, we met first time, 2019 when he got pro. He, he, the, Proposally, he wrote to me to get coach by me. I think was 10 pages long. You're kidding. He was telling from his childhood, all that stuff. And we started working for his, for his first, a pro show after he got pro where he then got second in, D. He won and won his second pro show. He won. It was Tampa. Then he got four. He won every other show except the Olympia. He always got third. But so it was a quite crazy career from the start. We, we, we, we, we, we started with 100 kg in the off season when we met. So first year of competing here at 94 kg on stage when he won Tampa. And got fourth at the Olympia. Then it was about 97, 98 and his cap now is 102. And in this off season after he really struggled last year, mentally with, you know, it's so much pressure in those classic physique because those guys have so incredible much muscle. And I would say nearly all of the top 10 have to sacrifice some muscle to get into the limit, you know. And within the last Olympia in the time after he, he went so fast to 130 without even doing anything stupid or, or intense, it just happened naturally. And when we started the prep for this Olympia, he started to look incredibly with 125. You know, that's 222. When, when, when, when two is his limit, one or two. So, it's two months ago, it was exactly on the Portugal weekend. We had a conversation. And, you know, it was clearly that there is no way that when we bring that body down to 102, that it will look good. Yeah, which had to look to 102, to 102, four pounds and he was at, which had to 65 pounds. Yeah, he's 75. Yeah, he's 75. And now and now he is at 118 kg. And that's what we want to bring, that's what we're going to bring on stage. Oh, all right. I would, I would said if we wouldn't have brought it down last year, it would have been about 110, 110. So still way over. Way over, but last year, you know, okay, that 10 kg, we just beat it down, you know, bam, bam, bam, bam, yeah. But it just, it just makes no sense because he's losing completely his look and, and I was in Stuttgart on Thursday. And until that, I was kind of, yeah, it's really that heavy, really. And I, you know, when you get pictures, you, you, you can't get the size of the athlete. I saw the condition is on everything is good, but you can't get the size. And I was so incredibly happy when I saw him last Thursday life because it really looks fucking good, you know? It's clearly open body building. It's a brilliant condition. It's very, very nice symmetry. Is he on his limit now? No, we have way to improve still, but I think it will have a really big impact. So with that plan for him, then as far as shows based on this decision. So we confirmed Italy and often Bach. Those two. And we want to try to give all everything, you know, and see where he stands and then make future plans. Nice. Wow. I'm still stuck on how hard he had to have died to get down. I mean, did you guys, you guys must have got to the point at the end where like there were days that he was hardly eating anything at all? He has, he has the luck of having a quite okay metabolism. Okay. But still if your metabolism is good when you burn that much calories, you're still hungry as fuck. So it doesn't sound that bad still. But still for that individual, it's fucking bad because he burns just everything, you know? Yeah. What's your strategy with making weight? You know how there's like, if a guy's just a little over, you can do it with kind of food and water like the day before. But then you guys weigh over, you have to burn muscle off. But you would take. I would say, if for example, a guy a three, four, five, six kg of water over weight, you see that one week out, that's easy. That's no problem. Brady for example, Brady King, he's always about 13, 14 pounds over weight the week out, you know? But even without diuretics, I get him in easily with just fasting on the weight in days, having a little sauna, sweating a little more. So that's not the problem. If you are a water guy, but the problem with urses, he is not the water guy. Huh. You know, he's naturally, there is no water to remove. Right. So you really need to bring down the fucking tissue. And that's why it just makes no sense. So it's a little bit the question of a body type. If you are more that water storage type, which stores a lot of water and liquor gain into your muscle, I would say you can manipulate 10 to 12 pounds easy in a week without doing any bad or crazy stuff. But you need to be that storage guy. If you're not that storage guy, you will have a hard time. Yeah. So with the weigh-ins, then say for the, for the Olympia this past year, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, that's what I wanted to say. There's no filling out of the muscle you lost because he's not the storage guy. Yeah. Yeah. You know, that's just, you just gone. It's gone. It's gone. It's gone. It's gone. It's gone. it's gone. And he got different cups, so he told the time, so they were not there. I don't know what I said. Actually, The time Isn't 80 Silver on that bush, this quickly Shenkah he saved a lot of prison money, especially if you're killing the animals. He bought and Sidiously powered he has a lot of money, and I first came out of it, Because if you sit in the audience at the Olympia, you see that difference of the top 10 and the others. You see that they come from another muscular lever. You know? Yeah. It's just the graininess, the quality, the separation quality. It's really sucked down and burned in and cut in muscle. So I don't say that's the biggest difference. You know too. And I've been treated. It's a genetic factor to who can look good, depleted too. Like I got shit. I didn't look like I lifted weights anymore. And you take good, like it guys was really good and you get him depleted. He still looks good. Like you can. There are guys that will still maintain their shape and their look. So I kind of see, I'm getting a perspective on classic that maybe I had in hand before talking to you right now. For example, same ice also a good example. He competed or he got his pro cut in open body building. He got fourth, Josema. Oh, okay. Spanish guy, they incredible shredded mala crazy guy, you know. Yeah. He got pro in open body building and he got at his first pro show was open body building and he got fourth Roman Fritz got fifth. Right. So he beat Roman in that show and for the next year he decided to get down five more KG and do it in classic. Right. And he was already inside out with that extra five on him. Exactly. So that's a whole other level of shredded at that point. Yeah. Exactly. It's really like you think it's a whole other level of shredded. Mm-hmm. Well the other thing that's interesting that I see from watching and knowing these guys is some of them I feel like they must have hollow bones. Like you see, you know, you see Mike the badass and you're like, how are you making weight? You look like an open body builder and he's easily making weight. It's mind-boggling. I think there are two factors. The first one is that they really beat the fat and the condition down like most open guys wouldn't believe. So most open guys would be similar condition to those classic guys would maybe 10 pounds like us. Plus. Yeah. Yeah. The second thing is they all have no weight at their waist. Yeah. Yeah. There's that bone symmetry that's small waist which really spare a lot of weight. You know? That's a good one. That's and then the illusion of having that bubbly muscle with a small waist just shows that they can have less weight but still display that heavy looking and full and muscular looking for six. We're great. I wanted to ask you about training because we, you know, dusty and I and Scott as well, we come from, you know, a lot of like progressive resistance, you know, I come from the Dorian days like that sort of stuff. And your training is along those lines isn't it's focused on intensity, not volume. And it is but it's not that I would say volume doesn't work. Right. You know, I have a clear idea in my head. When you as a coach, because as a coach, your tool is feedback. Yeah. You know, you get feedback and you need to do something with that feedback. If guys tell me with intensity training or low volume training, they don't get a pump and they don't feel anything, I immediately know the movement is not right. Because if you have the right movement in the second rep of the movement, you will get blood filling the muscle and you will feel it. If you're doing volume training, the blood flow is circulating around and you feel like kind of pump, but it's pump everywhere, but just not in the target muscle. So for me, the feedback of I get a pump, I get a good stimulus. I'm able to finish my target muscle with less volume shows me that the quality of movement is better. And that's what we all have to achieve. You know, the problem or the danger with volume training is that you get exhausted from the system, but you didn't treat your target muscle right. And the target muscle is an exhausted, but you are overly dead exhausted that you feel the training was good. But actually you are shit and you still your chest, for example, doesn't grow. You've done 20 sets of bench press, but you've done it all for the front tell 10 to triceps. Right. So that's why I think especially that sounds kind of strange for beginners or people who are not that advanced. A low volume approach can be easier to really learn the quality of movement, which in the end will lead to more muscular stimulus and growth. I like that. What do you think are more fun? And it's more fun. Yeah. That's something that I tell everyone this should be fun. You know, you should like what you're doing. I get the vibe that some people think the whole process is misery. But if I could just get the outcome, then I'll enjoy it. Yeah, that's completely wrong mindset. Imagine if you are a cyclist and you need to drive 500 kilometers or miles. But we can't you don't like it. You will be a miserably bad cyclotriva. Yeah. What are some of your, I mean, your reputation. Obviously, guys go to you because they see that your clients are shredded and they see someone win shows and they, I'm going to get the boss about a lot of help me. What do you think drives your reputation for the conditioning like how? What do you focus on to get someone conditioned on stage? What's, what do you do and what are the things that you kind of think or your protocol? I think that changed a little bit over the year with a lot of discussion with Steve, Tyler or other churches is to understand how bodybuilding is touched. When, when they would have been the Stefan 10 years ago, he would have said, shredded to the bone is always the right thing. Okay. As shredded as possible. But I would say there's the right shredded for every person. And you need to find that balance. If you have shredded loads, but you completely lose your legs. Yeah. Whatever, you are, it depends a little bit on the class you are in. But you might be fucked up, so there is a sweet spot for everyone. And also shredded is, or what most people out there understand the shredded. Let's take the, for example, shredded clout. You know, if you have shredded loads is not only based in if you are dry and have no fat. It's how the muscle is structured. Right. How good the contraction quality of that muscle is. Who else has shredded loads with 40 pounds over straight weight? Yeah. But he has no shredded back because the contraction quality he has in that muscle and the muscle density and the muscle richness is not that high as in areas he has a good contraction quality. The same is for quads. You know, people who are able to contract their quads incredibly good like branch or chy green. They have that super striated quads, but that doesn't mean that they are quads are more straight than most shredded than filiefs quads. Who hasn't that much strations. So it's a little bit finding that balance for that specific person and how he has to present and show it. Right. Do you feel like that's something obviously conditioning is something we all hammer. I mean you get on stage fat or you know in good shape and you're next to some of the shredded. You start to look fat. But I do feel like there's a line there where a lot of people lose where I really think that coaches or the athletes and to be looking at their photos and saying, Okay, but when my glutes crossed this mark where they were all the way in, where did my quads go? Where it was my chest is full, you know. And so really analyzing the whole picture because you have to ask yourself, would the you with shredded glutes win or lose to the you that had slightly feathered glutes, but you were blown out. Yeah, that's the point and you need to find the balance and you need to find that balance in combination with the feedback you get. William for example is is is the point you know we we displayed a lot of different looks with William last year in Portugal when he won in do. Congrats by the way. I can I'll thank you and 20 23 I know 20 20. We have 20 25 now in 20 24 and I got the same feedback for from every look. No, bring him as full and round as possible. Right. So the difference between for example was 96 kg in Dubai. 20 24 to for example 105 in Detroit or in the world where we got the where we got the feedback. Okay. We really were impressed by that mass and the volume and the picture he displayed because he's always kind of conditioned. Yeah. You know William, but it could be sat down a little bit more or it could be more popping and round muscle and the legs back up filled the shoulders back up filled. But keeping the eye on having the midsection is good as possible is how they want to see William. Oh, that balance is the trait was incredible too. I've been a bonnet fan for long time. I was lucky enough to be backstage with him. One of the years that he won, I think it was 2019. I can't remember for sure at the Arnold classic and then I was that look was burned into my brain. And so as a fan of his, you know, he took some time off and then seeing him come back. I see what you're saying now. I didn't realize that the size was that the size like we're talking a lot of way in our hands. Yeah. Seeing him come back and then when he got to Detroit, I was like, oh, this is the bonnet of old. This is the same bonnet if not better. And I think we even looked at some comparison pictures. We talked about him several times on the show about how bonnet just like we were joking that he was a guy that wouldn't go away. Like, you know what I mean? He just he's back again and right in the mix all the time. May have been better, I think, than we were outside Arnold. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The legs were even tighter, I think. Yeah, I think the next gain some gain some quality. I'm sure I'm sure about that. He has some injuries to deal with it, but still he makes an incredible drop. The goal for this Olympia is to get a little bit tighter. So a little bit trying to keep that volume and having that good symmetry, but getting tighter as I would say the first half of the year. Okay. That's what we want to try. Nice. That's okay. Yeah. Go ahead. I'm sorry. But before we got too far away, I had one other questions. So with Uruz, you had mentioned that the contractility of his glutes. You're going to see a lot more striations there than in the back. So I want to step back to the process of turning Uruz into an open monster. I assume that part of that is probably going to be more focus in back training. Can you give us any type of insight into what you're doing with him training wise? Now that we've heard a little bit about your training philosophies and we talked about Uruz and his whole movement to open. I'd love to hear. Like, what does that look like? It's completely simple. It's getting your movement, right? Yeah. Yeah. Especially when it comes to back, you know, you could, you could. People always, for example, when you say, okay, you need to do that lot movement. You know, a lot pulled down or a single arm row. That won't keep your luts grow. If you do it with your traps or if you do it with your biceps and a lot of you down. So that's the issue the most people have it. There is no exercise which which which solves your problem. It's how you do the exercise. And that's something which needs to be trained. I think that's why it's called training. It's it's not going from a day to another. And the the chump of the quality of the back, the feathering he kind of never had from last season to this year is really, really impressive. And tissue will follow you know, it's just the, it's just the matter of time. But seeing that the muscle quality is getting better now and starting to match his legs quality wise is so good to see because the chose me that is really able to contract the right fibers and it's really able to contract in the right area. So if calories are up, if he's having progressive training and getting better in what's it does intensity is never a question with him. He has he's just so much 100% when he trains. So there's no doubt the muscle will follow where the movement goes. So it sounds like you're saying it was like a technique development is. And training and getting better whenever every time we meet we do back. So it's just it always was the main focus from from his first show because that was always his weak part and his weak part. It was easy to detect because the movement was just not right. It wasn't good, you know, when you see his from the first day when you see his chest training. There is no mistake. That's why I can't say perfect chest, same for shoulders or same for quotes when you do when you see him doing a hex quote. It's just pure perfection the movement. You're perfection and that's why they have that crazy quality. But in the back there was the movement was just not that good in compared to the rest of his body. So you just need to train and get better in what you do to display in the end what the people want to see. Is that remember? I'm sorry. I'm trying to just dig deeper because I want to understand. Is it like a range of motion thing or I mean how do you do that? I guess that's what I'm saying. No, it's it's it's how you can control it. If if we take the back we have the let's we have the TFS. We have the rhomboids. We have the tracks and if you do a movement from the front to the back you can move you can use all of those. Okay. Yeah, or you can you can kind of isolate it. The problem is when it comes to an imbalance back and mostly I would say people are lacking. Let's. No, they mostly they have good upper back but let's are lacking. But they are doing every movement they do with the with the rhomboids with a terrace with with their traps, but they are not getting into the lads because the angle is not right. Yeah, they train in the problem is also the body is asshole. You know, if if you if you get a imbalance and you ramp up intensity your body would always take the strong muscles and keep the the weak muscles by sight. So we need to do a completely reset of the movement to get into that right area and that's sometimes just steps back to get improved again. I think for me, the eye open a my career was fill heath. Okay. If you take a look at Phil Heath, how he developed his back from his first approach to his first Olympia that was just mind blowing. Yeah, actually he started his career with just big arms and I would say a quite not this bad back but the back was nowhere. Okay, he was okay, but he built up his lads insanely and I think he was he was a guy and finally I saw a video two days before where he said he quite soon understand how he was able to stimulate the muscle. The muscle with the weight not just lifting using the muscle and get the. Yeah, in in that right in the right area, you know to get big sometimes is easier. Then to get beautiful and balanced because to get balanced you need to to really have those skills to to get the contraction quality into the area you need to. That's why why a lot of great bodybuilders never want the Olympia title take then is wolf imagine if then is wolf would have brought up his lads like his upper back. Yeah, okay. We would have destroyed the whole season. But that way is upper but his his upper back was I think so mother fucking dominant in every movement that it was impossible to get even in that area. That's that's the part of the feedback that I feel like people miss it. It's like their thought is if I'm doing these three movements and only my upper back is growing throw them all away. And do these other movements as opposed to learn to move your body to where you're hitting the the parts that are lacking like you said because that's. Still you always see could be very very dangerous because in those three other movements they probably also use the upper back. Right exactly. Yeah, you can't get away from finding you. You have to find a way to make it right. Keep those three exercises they actually do for their lads and learn them how to do them for. Yes, it's funny because I had I would have people watch some of the things I do and they'd say what part of the back is that hitting and I'm like all of it. And and they would know but like specifically I'm like all of it. I will wake up tomorrow sore from my head to my ass crack. You know, I wasn't for years in years. I trained with a good grow in my Terry's got really strong. My your adults got really strong. My rhomboids got really strong. Guess what didn't get strong by lads and stuff on your your solidifying a lot of thoughts I've had about back training. And I loved hearing it because that's for me. I had to back way off and really find a lot of humility to learn how to activate the actual that and then from there six months later the lap blew up. And if that's what yours has done then look the hell out because his back is going to get insane moving forward. You know what I'm saying? For me also intensity I would describe that way. I wouldn't describe intensity which. Moving the highest possible way from A to B. I would describe intensity of having the mental capability to stay in the perfect form and really have a maximum exhaustion of the target muscle. Yeah, yes. That's such an energy consuming process that it will melt you completely down. And nobody can tell me if he puts that intensity in that he can do of an exercise more than two or three sets because then the intensity just hasn't been there. Yeah, I agree a million percent because I feel like when you mentioned earlier when guys can't get a pump. And I think it's funny because I have broken shoulders so I'll warm up on like an incline with 135 for two sets. And on my second warm up my chest looks like I've trained. It's just blown out and I've done 20 reps with 135 and I'm thinking what do you mean you did a full workout and didn't get a pump that doesn't make sense. It really doesn't when you don't have a pump you don't have to you have not trained the muscle you want to train. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's almost impossible. You're like if you have salt water and a little food you should be good to go. Yeah, you don't need tops for getting a pump. Some soda even some water you're good to go. Yeah, I love these little gems. I think more people will walk away from this episode and start thinking, okay, if I'm doing these movements and they're not working. Make some alterations. You should use the that's something I stress to clients because I do a lot of progressive overload. But I tell them how you do your warm ups. That's your feeler sets is what's going to transfer into that working set. If you're just moving the way around and then you're going to jump in your working set. It's going to look like dog shit too because you didn't get the mind connecting with the body feeling the muscle fire. And now you can turn your brain off because it's just in that piston movement. It'll just go. You're training for that. Yeah, now you can just grip and rep it'll take care of itself. 100% I'm completely with you. That's why warming up is and I would say the false thing even in German. It's just bad to say warm up because everybody then thinks it needs to do super fast reps and doing one hand with reps. And but it should be a preparing set or something which really you get into the movement. You're perfect the movement. You have the right seat position. You have the right angle. The machine is done correctly that you can hammer the set where you go all out. Yeah, I think that that's key to especially because we'll do a lot of like timed a centrics. So like a four count and I tell them during your warm ups, you're because you're not pushing hard. You're literally saying in your mind for three, two, one. And if you've done that for your four or five feeder sets by the time you get to your working set, that's just the speed. You're just going to naturally move at. You don't have to count anymore. Your body just knows to move at that pace. You know what I mean? I love it. I love that we were able to dive a little bit deeper into this. I had one more thing to say about. Errs from earlier was I'm not surprised he's going open because I saw him in Toronto one time in the off season and his calves were so humongous. I remember standing I said hi to him and then we were kind of just talking with some people and I remember staring at his calves. It'd be like that's no way anyone in the classic division on the planet has calves at big. In the way they betrayed them in the off. I couldn't believe how big they were in the off season. Like he was blown up. He looked heavy like 275. I just I was like how in the world is he how is he classic with calves at humongous like 20 pounds in each calf like making weight was just shrinking his calves. It was it was crazy. I'm not surprised his calves are so you really never trained it. I think they are so big because his first professional sport was actually break dancing. I think that those jumps you know and there were no that stuff just put around. Good neural muscular connections. Yeah. Because I had moderate on we did a video of him the other day when I had met him he credited his calves to boxing. Yeah. Yeah. He's like I was on my toes for the first 15 years of my life. Yeah. I was like I was a trained him out but they were huge when I started. I remember I asked Dallas Mcarver about his humongous calves and Dallas told me that his mom used to yell at him all the time because he walked on his toes. Oh really? She said he walked he said he what he is whole childhood he walked on his toes. He went up and down on every step and his mom would be like, What walking on your toes? And he was like, Oh, like it was just a habit he had. And then you feel fast forward and he had these enormous calves and you just wonder like, you know, you're watching the don't have kids yet. He's been the walk on their toes. I was like, I was like, I'm going to make me walk on my toes. Yeah. I just think you wonder. Run I got to see if that was the same thing. I guess. No. I just got where they are. That's how you got those. Oh man. I'm never trained of him. I lost. I missed out. Oh, I've run my also had that calves. You know, if playing the double base just. Oh yeah. Yeah. Just blew up. That's funny. I, uh, we got obviously you've worked with like an incredible list of people. You've worked with like, you know, so many great pros. We're just, I don't know, like, you know, it's hard to know. We're up to speed if these are all still your guys. But I just wanted to throw some names at you. And just see what your reaction is. I could stay up to story or any comments about working with them or what they were like. But, uh, what about me? We already talked about Bonak and Irz. What about like Brett Wilkin? I see huge potential in Brett Wilkin and I, and always it's so funny. Because I think he is younger, but he's not as old as we. But he, but he's actually quite old. And what I like in his body is that that body is still so fresh. You know, that body is still so popping. I'm, you know, he and Brett, they are just the best friends. And for me as a coach, it's, it's great to work with both because if they're a coach, if there is a problem, I can talk with them with the other one. And, you know, they are so objective to each other that it's just a team of three, which, which really works great together. And it's, it's a huge fan in the second good and positive thing is I just always know that they are training is bang on. Oh, yeah. Because when those two are training, there is no, no prison amate. Because they are just completely nuts in how, how doing it. And I'm, I'm really looking forward to to see him. The first time this year on the Olympia stage, because last time he missed it due to his stomach problems, we, it seemed that we have to sof everything everything is really running smooth now. And, and I'm looking forward. And then obviously Martin, what's the take there with Martin just, I mean obviously there are three team. I still believe Martin is, is, is, is, is, is, is one of those special guys who could get or will get in my opinion to the complete, the top of that sport because, he brings a lot of intelligent into that sport, the way he, he, he gets and does things they, they are clearly incredible. And he's super super young. We still need some density and quality and specific muscle groups, but it's all going into into the right direction. I think it was a big surprise last year, so Olympia, nobody has thought about that, that could happen. We thought that that could happen. But this year is different, you know, that the, the pressure situation is definitely something which is new. But also now seven weeks out today's check in, have been very, very, very optimistic. In New York, we, we went for getting, our Pittsburgh, getting him as full as possible on stage after discussion with Steve. He, he said, he's anyway round and we should go back to what we did at Olympia, not catch up some stage. Catch up some size because he need to be the, the, the super shredded guy still with round muscle and he always has round muscle. So that's the strategy for that Olympia. Nice. What about the reader? I love Sean. Work equal Sean, you know, that's an dictionary. That's, that's just in the dictionary. He's just, he's something else, isn't he? Just incredible, you know, it's, his work ethic, his, his drive to win, his will to win his. It's just, just great, you know, we, he really brought up the legs. He's doing a great job in that. He's doing a lot of work in getting his best midsection. We could get possible with, with that incredible size he has. Yeah. He just has the bad luck of being that short. Otherwise he, he, I strongly believe he could be that guy who could dominate even open. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It would be a little bit taller because it's just, his muscle mass is just fucking ridiculous. Yeah. You make him five ten is a multiple time, Mr. Olympia champion. One hundred percent. It's, it is amazing to, you know, you look at pictures of him like last year, the look he had, like the craziest look by himself on stage. You, it's one of the, he's one of the greatest bodybuilders of all time. Well, hands, that's far as if he goes the same hands down. Easy. I see it the same. Easy. It, it, it, I have to say two men just can grats on the work you guys did to get that last year because it, it, the words not resurrected because it's not like he was gone. You know what I'm saying? But yeah, it's just, it's all, yeah, but it evolved him into this like he was always crazy. But it was like to take somebody who was already a, a two, 12 Olympia champ into the world. Yeah. Right. And now, take him that step further. It was just, as a fan of the sport, it was so satisfying to see that look. So thank you. And also as a fan of bodybuilding, you know, he's, he's just a great guy because when he goes on stage, it's just party time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He, he seemed, though, like, I think what, what I was thinking when you were talking Scott was, I felt, I felt that Sean had maxed out his physique. That's what it was. Because I mean, there was no, there was nowhere, you couldn't look at him and say, what he needed, which is usually pretty easy in bodybuilding. You go, well, if this guy gets his arms bigger, he'll be better. Was Sean, you couldn't see that. Then you come back a year and you're like, how does a guy who I just thought had maxed out his physique? That's what it was. When up 20% and then things that you didn't even think were weaknesses in comparison were, my curiosity is, what did you guys change to bring so much out of him? Because he's from speaking to him, he felt like his prep was more enjoyable. Was, I don't want to use this word incorrectly, but easier. Yeah. You know, for him to get through. So what, what do you guys do to make that happen? Same with the same as with William. It's keep cardio. What? What would you train like that you don't have to? It was really, and Sean, who is such a workhouse, he begged for cardio. Yeah, he was. I was feeling bad. Can I do it in time? Can I do it in time? Can I then I saw Instagram videos of he doing cardio? I've wrote, go the fucking of that treadmill. No, it's really respecting more the recovery time, which really gets more important when you get to older. Especially when it comes to leg, I think the main reason why older bodybuilders get skinny leg is that they don't respect that their recovery time gets worse. Right. And they're pounding the stepper and they're pounding the treadmill. Yeah. You probably can do that with 20, 25, you know? You can do anything when you're 25. Exactly. Trust me. But when you get older, cardio can destroy your physique. Sometimes cardio is just necessary when you have a bad metabolism and you need that extra stimulus or calorie output. But both William and Sean, they have quite good metabolism. So it's just a bad choice of overdoing that and then stealing the complete recovery of their weakest body part. That's a huge visionary thing for you to catch because so much of what we do is bodybuilders is just we all do the same thing. You do your cardio, you do your best, you do that. And I don't think many people, myself included, could look at him and go, I think we need to throw the cardio out the window. Yeah. That was that's really a special eye that you had to see that. Did you lower it and then start to see he improved or did you say throw it away? Throw it away. I love it. Just go bold. You're like, I'm tired of this. I want you to sell your treadmill. Just throw it away. Do mobility or posing or whatever, but keep your feet quiet. You see if a muscle looks tired. If a muscle looks tired, he's overdone. So you have two options. Trained less or do less cardio and as we are not marathon runners, we are bodybuilders. The decision is quite easy. I love it. I love it. I love it all the time because I'm not a lover of cardio. It's like, I'm just, I'm not the big cardio guy. I use it. It can be a two-lit. And young people really sometimes need it or some athletes with great legs. Some people sit around all day and with out and if it's really that's. That's some of those personal. Personal questions, you know. Yeah, right. That's one of the things that gets lost in in the less experienced coaches is you'll see the athlete spending more time doing cardio than they spend training and you're like, Well, are you a cardio basketball or are you a muscle athlete? The last thing is it doesn't make sense that you're spending more time and focus on the thing we're not really trying to do. You see these guys doing two hours of cardio and training for 45 minutes. And you're like, yeah. Yeah. Make sure you question it a little bit. Yeah. We're over the hour here. So I just got a couple more for you. Staff and we have a little bit of fun here. What's some of the craziest thing you ever did to fill somebody out after they made weight that worked. It comes down to fluid and sodium. Yeah. Yeah. You just gotta run run up and not through them and not through them and not through them and not through them. And you know, it's really, really important to respect what a body is able to digest. Yeah. Yeah. Nice. And there are certain limits for persons and carbs is just one point but sodium and water is definitely something which can get you to fast results. I'm not that that the junk food guy because it's just, you know, for me or my kind of working or some people just don't understand that is doing something which I can exactly say what I've done. And afterwards having the feedback and if it hasn't been 100% change it to the next time. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Because otherwise everything you do is just motherfucking luck. Yeah. I know that I throw in something now here and I throw something now here and maybe it goes up. But afterwards we don't know what happened. It's just not the way I want to work. Sometimes people, then, you're not giving me that much attention because you plan it and do it in advance. Yeah. I need to do that because I need to see what happens. Or sometimes people think if you have now meal five if you change meal six you will see that one hour later You won't see it you know there's a process of digestion and blah blah blah blah blah blah So you need to have a specific track and Then go back after if it worked or not So getting filled out fast. I would say water and salt Just run it through them. You got to run it through them right yeah, I think a lot of people they think oh I want to fill out two pounds So I'll drink one liter of water because that's two pounds But you have to drink like six liters to get in you You're sweating you're bringing any of the stick in like you out and you have to process like three grams of sodium to get anything to really go into the cells and Yeah, people people think the body is just like a math like they think it's like a math Equal one it's just like there's all this same thing The thermogenesis and all this crazy stuff and actually the biggest fucker It's called to soar Yeah, because you can get up super full and nice and when your nerve goes round you get flat You get Walter and you can't change that you could as much as you want You could drink as much as you want you a fuck so the successful athletes are the stable athletes Yeah, I'll five of them We've all seen that we've all seen people that look like a million bucks and then You know you hear from their friend like oh he's losing his mind in his room man like he's gonna like pull out of the show We're like oh god We're gonna do to just keep this guy calm. He's like hours away from stage You know, do you see people think that these Olympia level guys they all have it completely together But how much extra management? I knew that face was coming Yeah, you have sure you've had to talk some people off ledges when they look great Is it still happening at that level just you know for sure you know Something like you are backstage and pumping up and taking a look at the glutes of the other guy can completely melt you Emotionally yeah, I always found it strong like bolt We in in Austria. We have that you know when you're going to the shower The penis of the other person always looks bigger because it's a perspective That side then on your sense I was turned my water up real hot Yeah, you know what what drew that to me when I was the year that saidric won the Arnold classic I went to his room with the cedo And he posed in my brain didn't couldn't comprehend what I was seeing and I looked at said I said I've never seen anything like this in person and I realized that those guys His brains can't even see what they look like because he goes really so I look okay and I'm like Yeah, like I mean and I'm looking at a cedo and a cedo just rolls his eyes He's like we both know he's lights out and we left the room at Chris goes he's never thought he's looked good And I'm like if I look like that I'd be in the lobby just standing there in my trunk just so we could have Look at me I've had that same experience where I was in a room with a guy who was like Top tier Eshalon body builder and he goes what do you think they're gonna be shaped? And I'm like what do you ask him before? Fuck like you Too visible. You look yes, that's you're gonna win the show like yeah, what what who's the hardest worker you've ever coached Rapid fire Was Martin Sean? Yep, yeah, or is Martin and Sean? What athlete is most likely to ignore your diet rules in the off season? Who is Ken eat out pretty bet? I love it. I like how he's on the hardest worker list and the most likely to cheat on his off season diet Say how off season he's a little yeah, yeah, it's pretty okay, you know, yeah If you could coach anybody builder from history for one more show in their prime But you guess a coach I just want answer for me always the greatest Ronnie Cohen Yep, oh wow Just do one show with Ronnie see what you could do I don't know if I could do it better. I would like you want to see if thank more I just I just want to talk with him You just want to see two ninety two in front of you in a hotel room You want to look at the menu of what he's eating and then how he looks and go this is wait this is what you The thought of that is just I'd love to I'd love to die them for a day Just so I could track how much barbecue sauce he actually ate on diet figure out how many Imagine that fucking garbage Center six How much sugar he drank with that protein Yeah, he's doing three scoops. I used to love that in the old video when he's taking the free work out Of cops plus cool, we're something like that. Yeah, the synthesis and it had fat in it too It was like primarily a meal replacement with a little protein. He's like barbecue sauce soup so that we're good to go I was watching a Ronnie video did the other day and he's doing preacher curls and when the dumbbell got to the top It went like past vertical so his bicep like totally relaxed on every rep so it's like But every rep it's holy relax at the top and you know like We're all trying to get the most out of every rep. We're trying to keep that tension on and all that and he's just a fully relaxing at the top and just Not noticing Doesn't matter just doesn't matter. I did my set like it. I just thought that's a beauty a Ronnie I have seen an interview with him that was crazy where he said Yeah, he recognized quite early, you know even though of the elected He could go to train back one hour later. Yeah That was a while was part of our him is he was doing two a days and hitting everybody part twice a week Training with that kind of intensity you're like how's that possible? He didn't matter. It rose Yeah, doing like imagine doing five plate barbell rose twice a week. Yeah, it's insane. Yeah on top of your seven eight hundred pound deadlifts Yeah, and if they were to go Then those two hours or one hour of of of of of walking yeah and then yeah Hardio It's running, you know, but it doesn't matter there's no rule part of that that must have been insane It's just Did you did you ever see him on stage in person? I've seen him first time I've seen at the guest guest appearance 2005 Good local showing all still with 150 KG Yeah, wow big as he that's a biggest he got yep. Yeah, three 40 And I have seen him one week after he lost the Olympia at the program pre in grads also in Austria Okay 2006 Right yeah, unbelievable. Yeah The perfect description of Ronnie unbelievable. It's all you gotta say. Yeah, yeah, that was good Well, man, thanks for your time. I mean, yeah, we really appreciate having you on I I only got to meet meet you briefly one time when you came by the booth You were talking with Scott I believe for a quick second and but we've been wanting to have you on you know You're you're right in the shit there with all these He's well-known and well-loved guys and you're doing a great job, and it's good to see them Thank you. Thank you. Good to see you guys being their best You know, we see a lot of a lot of coaches coming go and it's good to see repeated You know repeated best ever Yeah, I trust you my best I'm I'm like always I'm just driven by Going Right Yeah, you have a passion to that even from the first time I heard you talk I was like oh This guy really loves bodybuilding and it's a real passion I and it's infectious too. So yeah, I'm so glad that we could get you on the show today and share that with the audience because our listeners They're the kind of people that will really appreciate that. This is this is really cool Absolutely One one more quick one Who who knows the most about bodybuilding of all your clients who who's on your level? Who's the biggest fan of bodybuilding My coach Nida he's called Michael the box My boss he's a two-twelfth pro and I know Mike I coach him since 2010 So 15 years and He's just he's just he just knows Especially when it comes to competition recites which year which he's just a freak right right That's good to know it's good to know I appreciate that So shout out to Mike the box for being a walk in encyclopedia Okay, thanks, Stefan. We appreciate you. Of course Instagram your your boss of a lot yeah, boss of Boss of outlaw on Instagram, Stefan Kinzel You bet thanks for coming on the show Appreciate you See you at you there remember everybody like share subscribe comment and Bring the bell and remember dusty and big ronor your codes. I am mutant dot com get your ISO surge get your all in and everyone should get on the gear Can remember everybody it's just bodybuilding

I didn't get into bodybuilding at pickup checks. I was very clear and you know, not in a single, not a single woman that I've been with. Everybody welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. Big round part of here with Dusty Han Shah and the producer Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. The bell through the bell out. Excellent job. Just House. Remember, I am mutant.com mutant proud hardcore sponsor of the show, born hardcore. I am mutant.com 20% off with Dusty 20 or Big Ron 20. Use either one. The Patreon. Keep a producer home. Think big Patreon. Thank you. And you can use either code for mutant. And you get your ISO surge and then you get your all in and then everyone should get on a gear. Okay guys, how to not be a psycho? Wall and prep. Wall and lead was not to be a psycho. How did that be a psycho? Period. Maybe it was out of you thing that to you and that went. Yeah. How to not be a psycho. dot dot dot. Wall and prep. Okay. So what where are we starting with this one? What are we talking about Dusty? What are we actually talking about? The main topic kind of arises just going back and forth and conversation with you yesterday with how sometimes clients who are very good will make their perhaps more difficult by overanalyzing thinking, worrying, on and on and on. And it's one of the areas that I hate as a coach because I try to respond back to them explain that if you're a psycho, if you're stressing, if you're creating cortisol, you're creating something I can't beat with the diet. You know what I mean? Versus your clients who are just comfortable executing and they just kind of cruise along and you'll watch their changes as we discussed is like they're just rapid because there's no chaos within them. So you know that's an interesting topic because I don't think people realize how much damage they're doing to themselves because they're doing all the work. They're doing all the stuff they're supposed to do but that mental battle is a mess and I know we've all dealt with it. So you know kind of hearing your guys just takes on that and in any advice you have for people that might start to realize their struggling with it. Well, I think people have to start with the understanding that first of all this isn't supposed to be an absolutely miserable experience. Right? And that's a big part of why some people have miserable preps is because the chaos in their mind. And you have to also make sure the understand that we don't want to you know, a bunch of science to back it up but your your mental environment affects your body in a lot of ways. You know you're sleep free, everything from your sleep quality to your digestion to you know which of course then you're just cascading effects from there. So you have to take responsibility for the environment that you give your coach to work with is how I like to to put it. You know like I think a small part of this and I'm not I don't want to harp on this stuff. I think it's magnified by Instagram so it's artificially we can turn officially a problem. But I know that there are some people that still kind of expect their coach to fix every single problem. You know they're like oh I hired that coach and I don't know. He didn't get me in shape. And then you know they work with another coach and then you know whatever happens and you talk to that person they're like yeah that guy is mine. It's just he's just all over the map he's just chaos he's like you know got all this crap going on with his relationships and he's you know he's got this terrible body dysmorphia that he always sexy looks you know fatter than earth or rip more rip than he is and there's all this stuff going on and you're like oh okay you know so like you have to reign all that in and make sure that you've got a calm environment that you're gonna put your prep on you know like it's the foundation of the prep is you know where where's your starting point here you know right do you think that sometimes although I always prep to win always every show I ever did even in the beginning because I thought it was the only way to bring the best out of you but I also think that you can get two focused on that result versus just the execution day and an out you know like I always found I had my best results when I was in the moment and really just soaking up what needed to be done you know I found it was easier when I was really busy when business when I had the businesses and everything I didn't really have time to think about what I was doing I just read the plan from Chris got the food together ate the food did the train don't they sent me did the cardio went to bed you know and there really wasn't even it wasn't even time to look at my pictures I remember I would look at them to make sure I was where I was supposed to be and then I would send them to Chris walking to the car send the email drive home and get my day started and then like an hour later you know before I walked out the door check it just to make sure there's no changes but I never analyzed the photo because I was like well that's what I'm paying him for yeah I brought him in so I wouldn't think because if I'm gonna do this myself I mean I'm capable but then I want to think and that's that's that hired him so I wouldn't you know what I'm saying and I feel like that's an area people can look at plus when we talk about the chaos in your head I think you also have to factor and that if you're if you have chaos in your head that your coach is helping you with and you know that's our job so if you bring it to us we got to figure it out but it's not your significant others job so you're bringing that chaos most likely into your life and then you're wondering why I'm I've heard this many many times oh my wife doesn't support this or my husband doesn't support this and it might be true but it also could be because you suck to live with during a prep yeah that's very possible yeah you know because I've I've been literally lived with four people while prepping and no one had an issue with me prepping I never got a single complaint that's about prepping yeah which tells me that my prep was my prep it wasn't theirs but I was didn't care I mean you know yesterday I post up the picture we left the gym we went to the store and while we were getting food I was like you know I want to pizza after I trained Nicky ordered it we went home I ate it whilst you were sitting right next to me this is her prep I want pizza right right yeah yeah like it shouldn't care it shouldn't care you know but you do hear that like oh my husband he had the nerve to bring home whatever and eat it and I'm like he's not dieting yeah yeah yeah yeah I know just be normal I got a few thoughts I got a few thoughts on this one because I kind of was I put in a list together in my head here so I think that there's a few different types of psychos and I feel like I've fallen into every single category accidentally at one time or another there's first there's just like the all around person who's just got like there it's just the way they live their life there's there's some sort of drama we could call it like the Kai Green Psycho okay that like Kai had to always overcome something like it couldn't be easy you know what I mean right I remember Dave Pulumbo having an interesting observation about him and I've seen it and other people he couldn't just like go into the show and just do his best he had to like overcome great adversity to to be able to to to feel like he deserved to compete you know and I mean and so they're had to be some sort of drama in there for him to overcome it couldn't just be smooth and then there's the the relationship psycho where like hey I'm actually a pretty level headed guy but I'm in a relationship with a crazy girl and she drives me nuts but right the more I think about it and that that leads to all sorts of problems like oh man we had a big fight last night dusty and I went off playing after word and it was a wreck man I or I slept at my body's house I'm sorry man I didn't get my check into you today but then if I think about it further I feel like that still ties into the first one because you brought that into your life you know what I mean so there's that and then then the other version this guy throws me for a loop sometimes he's the guy who isn't a psycho all through the prep and then we get about three weeks out and he starts to get nervous and then he says to me hey by the way I can't figure out you know first of all why his pictures are looking like garbage you know all of a sudden they look like trash and I say god I don't you know you look different you lost four pounds in your super flat oh yeah I don't know man I didn't get enough sleep last night I don't know what it was I'm like okay well bunchy check into Maro and we do this for like we do this dance for like six days and then he tells me I did cut out all my sodium because I read it was a good idea that when you're coming into the you know they think and then you're like wait wait you did what yeah what six days ago I said it fell apart yeah yeah I cut all my sodium out because I read it was a good idea and I talked to this guy at the gym who said you really want to be eaten low sodium going into the show so I made I did that I don't know if that has anything to do with it no so you you do get people like that too and I think that yeah you just you got to step back and recognize that it's all kind of be alright you just need to listen to your coach and if you're working with one of us like how many I can't even count how many shows I've worked with people four you know what I mean it's like we've seen this before never kept track I I see you know you see people that have kept track so they're like 600 wins you know 200 first like and all and you know you know 23 pro cards and I was like I remember I mean clients I've had I don't know all you know is wrongs and when you get to be a lipy a coach you don't have to keep track anymore oh yeah million I think I just I think I should have had more training pictures you know yeah yeah yeah I think that the the the big take on that that I think people should consider is are you enjoying your prep yeah because if you're if there's chaos if you really think about you will say you're not and I think you got to make a decision either stop prepping because this isn't for you even if you're a great athlete this might not be for you or ask yourself okay what is it that's taking away the enjoyment because it's not the cardio it's not the lifting it's not the diet these are all the things that we want so what is it and and a lot of times you're probably gonna find out that it's either something you're creating or something you're creating in your mind and you should let go of you know I think that that is the biggest thing when I look back I loved every prep I ever did like I enjoyed the process of the preps and the only prep that didn't go well was when I created chaos in my life and I did everything that I always did I mean execution was perfect I probably talked about this on the show before but I remember it was like the night before national's 2012 and I'm taking pictures in a hotel room and I'm like the lighting's not good here the lighting's not good here I couldn't find good lighting and it was because I didn't look good there was no lighting that was going to make me look good because I look like blank you know and looking back it was so funny because I was like well I created hell in my own life and then thought it wasn't gonna have an effect so if it is you know and that was I always like to point out for my case it was my fault the chaos I created it but whether you did or did not it might be a good time to either remove the chaos if you can and if you can't pick it up from show it's not going to go well yeah you know you just won't so yeah I just think it's important it's funny but living here in a town where there's less body building I'm getting a lot more feedback on prep like people are watching niki's prep versus prep they've experienced or prep type scene in the gym and they have a lot to say because they've never seen a prep that A the athlete appears to be having fun B the changes are ridiculous day to day and so they're almost confused they're like oh I thought prep sucked you know and it's a realization that you know they just don't see that what you have is someone who's very grateful to be in the position and just enjoying it yeah and you guys said it well too right she started early you know she's taking her time which is also part of getting because she wants to yeah like like there's no there's literally and I could say this is then say the house is she has no connection to the outcome at all she doesn't even like she's doing a pro qualifier as a second show because chance rather won't be a ton of competition at the first show and she wants to compete with good girls yeah but there's literally no connection to the outcome and you know if she won the whole thing that'd be great if she took second and was one point away from a pro card it wouldn't necessarily ignite a need to do another show like she just wants to do these shows right and I wanted to hear the other person we don't know that you won't compete again but you do know that you don't care like it's it's it's not a hunt for a pro card it's uh I want to do this one more time um I think that's allowed it to be really enjoyable um and that's an area that I just think more people should focus on like when I look back and I know Ron you feel the same way it took four years uh from my first national level show to turn pro and I loved all of them like I was trying to win and there was definitely disappointment when I didn't win but looking back I'm so glad I didn't win my second one for for many many reasons but you know I really want people to connect to that it's so easy looking back like I'm sure you were on a minute with all of yours like what a career to look back on I mean I wouldn't you know I talked about how I wouldn't change anything yeah I mean I enjoyed every prep too I mean some more than others obviously but that that that usually had more to do with like you know how bad the carbs and cardio got it it it it wasn't really like I don't think other than one or two like I did 24 shows and I think I maybe had life drama happening twice so that's a pretty good person that's like a really good percentage of being relatively stable you know stable as a look at me you know like my finances were all stay I you know if I was broke I was broke but I managed like I remember being super broke going to college but I knew how much and I was budgeted and I was making it every week you know like tight and had no money but it wasn't a stress because I was good I was managing I was in the groove I was rolling you know and so I think only two of my perhaps I had anything going on and they were really difficult they were really difficult those are like the two hardest perhaps I can take off you know so you know I do in yourself any favors you know and one of those gears was my worst you know not hurt and you know getting hurt in the jam twice during prep you can't tell me that's not related to being distracted you know they're not focused on what you're doing making bad decisions while you're training you know chaos in your brain you know and it's I just everything comes back to where everything comes back to your perception of where you're at in life and what's going on like how you view the world how you see the world how you see every problem like you know I was talking to someone the other day and you know ever the just the five minutes of just nonstop complaining and I just couldn't wait for it to end I can't believe this person is still complaining and like I tried to change a subject a couple times and they just went back to complaining and I was like oh my god I just I just I just got to get out of here you know right yeah and I love that your grade was like what is happening yeah and and you know that that you know where you're at like how you feel about what's going on in the world man that's your that's that's your worldview and your picture perhaps massively so try to get yourself into a good spot you know you remind me of something because Chris had shared with me a a a check-in with someone at one point you blocked off the name but he was showing me a comparison my check-in to theirs and it was a full breakdown of of why his pictures were late and he got a flat tire and on it was like a really long thing and and I read the whole thing and I was like that's crazy because yeah Chris because you I didn't read that I just you know and it was funny because during that prep and and I told him this after the back and forth I got an abscess tooth during the prep I mean my mouth I was like what's going on so I made an appointment for a dentist that go in he goes you got an abscess tooth he's like all right here's our options and they they involved like time that didn't have yeah and I was like well can you just pull it out and he was like ha ha ha can you and he was like yeah but you'll need a tooth I go but will it be okay for like two months out and he's like we're gonna pull it out and he ain't the tooth out fix it up I had to alter like something I couldn't train for a couple hours just whatever it was it's true on that side you know so he he pulled it out and it was funny because I went throughout the day and I did my day to day and I got home later and after the gym and whatnot and my wife the time goes hey whatever happened to the dentist I go yeah I get to pull out my tooth and she was what and I was like yeah I had to pull it we're gonna have to put it in later a couple months or something and it just hit me in that moment that I didn't tell Chris I didn't tell her it was like cool so I can eat again in an hour yeah yeah that side and I'm like okay cool let's go let's move on and I know a lot of people that would have caused chaos and to me it would have left I was like oh sweet so this isn't a problem then it's gonna stop hurting yeah yeah the pain will go away and I can eat awesome thank you for the great news doc 600 bucks done yank it let's move on you know yeah I think that that again like you said Ron's how you choose to look at it I could have been a whole mountain oh god all these you know issues and it's like no I had an issue and then I got a solution and now it is over and after the show I will get a bone graph whatever thing put a poster and give me a fake tooth thanks right so it's pretty easy can can you think of that's a great incident that you know your mental attitude you know what I mean and I sort of reminded me of when I tore my quad I I remember like I kind of remember when I that's like first tore it like I was laying on the ground and I remember my quad was torn I was right there guys were around I kind of remember knowing that I had to make a decision like this can either be like a tragedy or I can just go Kate what do we do let's go at that moment like that moment yeah like you know what I mean like like you know because I and I'm also I think that comes because I'm a big believer in like compounding the use of like the later you make a decision the less benefit you get from it yeah yeah you know like if like the quicker you can make a decision and get your mind right the the better everything's gonna be right and I remember being like like this is my reality so I can either be like super positive and like hey Doc what's up let's get this leg you know what I mean yeah or I can be like oh my god oh my god you know like that's sort of thing and I remember like being at the hospital cracking jokes with the nurses like Emily showed up because like you know you guys called her so she like you know the hospital and she's like oh my god and I'm sitting there and I'm like hey babe turn my quad you know what I mean what I just started before that Ron because I don't know if I didn't know this in Canada but you get in faster according to what Ron told me in that moment if an ambulance takes you so Ron was like oh call the ambulance I was like what and he goes well just it'll get me scene quicker like so he already had a plan like laying there it's like he could have we could have got him to a car but his brain immediately was like what makes this work fastest yeah and it was getting an ambulance that gets me in quicker it wasn't about the ambulance it's just literally we'll get me seen faster yeah and that was the beginning of the process it was like I have a strategy to get this done as soon as possible and I remember going good thinking you know love me because maybe that maybe that took an hour or two off of being seen yeah you know and yeah and it maybe I would have got a different doctor and the doctor I got was awesome and you know and I mean like so I don't know I'm just a little bit of a moment of like oh my god this is so terrible it was like okay here's what we have to do and and that's I do think that that's how most successful people operate because it doesn't matter like your feelings about what just happened don't matter and I I say all the time on my friend's season because I always say your feelings don't matter but they don't like the universe does not care if you think this is unfair or sad or inconvenient or whatever it is and and I feel like that's a lost thing it's something I work up from a coma I was like well I guess I gotta learn how to walk again let's get this going yeah I I remember the day I went for surgery it was three days later they called me and so 72 hours I went in for my surgery and I remember they were wheeling me to the you know the surgery room and it was the surgeon and his assistant this like resident surgeon right and I remember the resident surgeon said he goes I have never seen like he said to me right when we are done talking he goes I've never seen anybody this excited about surgery he's like because I was like pumped was like I was going to a fucking metallic concert I was like I was like okay let's go let's go here we go like I know it's like right and joke super alert and and he was like you are like hyped for this and I was like yes this is like start the clock he was like okay you know like he was just like completely blown away but I was like really excited about it like like doctor comes and you know normal people probably don't want to hear anything and and I go okay so what do we do like are you like is there gonna be any metal in there like how much ropes going in there like I was asking those questions and he was just like he walked out and goes like oh yeah that's amazing that's good stuff okay well what's what's wrong with that a long everyone but I I thought it was a needed thing and then run like so I guess what's the bottom plan how to be and how to not be a psycho just try to calm yourself down and don't overthink and just I think the biggest thing is is execute every day if your plan is right and you focus on the execution the result will take care of itself yeah or is the Canadians would say calm your tits calm your tits that's a Canadian when right run yeah I don't I don't say but yeah that might be a Canadian one I think it is I think it is good about that yeah let's take credit if not we're corrected in the comments so I don't think it's still it's still nothing beats the the British with piece of piss yeah oh nothing beats that that's still the best okay listener questions and stuff yeah yeah yeah we had that list I know dusty had that list too yeah I've got one here here's a patreon one okay and he says yes he says so he's a lifestyle client and he says you know he knows that a lot of us work that that we work with a lot of lifestyle clients and on competitors he said that's what he is he says um what are the biggest mistakes that you typically see lifestyle clients make and especially the mistakes that they don't even realize they're making oh I got some great ones yes here here one years I got to start with one of the worst ones but what it is is is the the lack of knowledge and that's it's a coaches job to kind of keep an eye on things again but of understanding what are in different foods so for example a soft one that happened the other week I'm gonna lead with she's a great client but she was thinking ahead how to trip and decided to get kale salads to replace her greens which was fine um the downside was my first thought was what's in that besides kale yeah so I do a quick search and it really wasn't that bad and in this case it worked out because she was very active but I just pointed out to us and hey I really wanted to be mindful of those things because a quick Google search on Chick-fil-A's website told me how many calories each one of those what is versus you just eating your normal greens and as a lifestyle person the reason I bring this up is because that's not a bad decision as long as you know you're making it so I got told I go I'm not really against us you're gonna be moving so much it doesn't matter but I just want you thinking in the future if you are not gonna be moving a ton that's not a great trade for green beans so when she came back she lost weight because she was burning calories like crazy running all over the place yeah but now she's like cool the kale we found good information the kale worked better and now we're using our own controlled kale as as a as a green but a but a funny example which actually was my mother so I can I can give her this one um I had her on a diet and I had her eating a certain amount of potatoes and I'm over to house one day and her boyfriend is making her food and I'm sitting there and he puts it in front of her and I look down and I go what the is this and I'm looking at her potatoes and he goes those are potatoes I go those are tater tots like like fried like fried weight out frozen fried tater tots oh man put him in front of her and I was like yeah I think I was like in the in the reason it was so like it broke my brain was I realized that had he fried them he would have not done it had I suggested french fries he would have said that's ridiculous but because they were at Costco and their potatoes and they're frozen it was easier yeah and it just it really helped me as a coach realized like oh I gotta be real cautious because like he didn't in no idea how ridiculously stupid that was yeah yeah so yeah that was my favorite ever I mean I was trying so hard to not react terribly because I'm like I think I know why we've stalled on our chain I've got a similar one I've got a similar one to that dusty and this was like 2000 and fifth 13 probably somewhere in there and I still remember this guy to this day I'm going to call you out Zach if you're watching us first he's a good friend of mine too and we actually started working together again just recently I just like stuff yeah he was competing at the time and he he I was suddenly like we weren't seeing the progress we wanted and I can't remember the scenario but we were getting closer to a show and I said you know well I gave him the option too I said you could use a cup of rice or eight ounces of sweet potatoes okay and and this is for a few different meals and we're I'm breaking it down with them like so what are you doing with your rice okay how you cooking it how you measuring it and he said something about the sweet potatoes and eventually somehow I figured out every time he ate sweet potatoes he was using bruises candied yams which was a canned sweet potato and it had like 70 grams of sugar per serving you know yeah and he was like yeah so every time I choose fish I need fish I use the sweet potatoes with that so I'm eating sweet potatoes like two times a day and we dug in deep it was as it was his girlfriend at the time she was like should that be eating candy yams because she saw him doing it and so yeah we we pulled the candy yams out we went back to regular sweet potatoes and oh my god did that make all the difference in the world to get that 140 grams of sugar per day yeah yes help that cut his carbs and that so we literally just started working together again like three weeks ago and when I wrote his diet out there was a spot where I said sweet potatoes and I didn't say anything to him yeah I put it in parentheses I said not Bruce's candy yams it just sent that to him that's amazing oh wow that's great yeah oh man those are good but but I do think it's important on the question so as a lifestyle to better ask you know because and that's the credit I give is like you know I love one a good client like when I listed sends me something because I'm like this is you know I literally said like number one it's perfect for what you're doing so we're all good but I love that it it creates a learning experience that as a coach I think sometimes we have to be mindful of the fact that common knowledge as a 20 year coach is not common knowledge yeah I really important that we do that that we think and and our smarter because it's not a dumb mistake it's literally they're they're making good decisions just not knowing oh I've had it go the other way too where you feel bad because someone did an entire prep thinking something that you're like oh I didn't realize I haven't seasoned and chicken breast for a month yeah yeah like like you know just so like I mean one is the diet soda thing like I've had people like oh like I remember one guy I said hey after pre judging why don't you have a have like a a die coca or something pretty nice cold die coca after pre judging you know and just you know chill out for a bit and just you know okay and he's drinking it and he goes this is so good I'm like yeah they taste pretty good you know day to show in here thirsty and he's like yeah I just have been wanting one for months and I was like you didn't you didn't drink it he's doing your prep and he's like I'm not allowed to drink these am I you're just you're gonna pull up without a diet drink at all and he's like I didn't drink nothing but water man for like 60s of a sheen yeah this is the machine he's like I didn't want to put that stuff in my body I didn't think I'd be allowed to have it yeah I just didn't think he'd let me have die coca and and crystal lighten and he realized that he just he's watching my videos of gallons going down is like what an idiot I just I just was like I don't know how it escaped them it just kind of escaped them you know it's just like certain things it's you just oh I didn't know that you know it's not that was sliced to that guy was because I know he in every way if you didn't even pretty good as she and he was nasty he actually had his legs were really ripped he had great legs yeah who the funny but I was like yeah you could have a few diet coax I think maybe I told you could have snuck a few in you know next time if you don't look like break it to him you don't want to actually really want to you you know maybe they will see how you look tonight and we'll use that information for next year's prep maybe we can have yeah a little more oh man that's amazing oh wow that's good stuff good stuff oh yes there's the main ones I get think of and then one more thing's got on that yeah that just I just actually literally I was late calling you guys because I message the girl from our gym for this and she's actually a trainer but she's getting ready for a show and and this is for competitors or non but I don't think people realize that cranking up the incline and then holding on and leaning back to take it's a way the incline yep so I just like to say on when you're doing your cardio on a treadmill don't touch it there's a reason that you want to touch it because it makes it easier yeah so and and you really are hurting yourself it's so I hate sending those messages because I literally I I actually text John that's the GM of the GM I said hey this lady I don't know her is she cool because I want to tell this but I don't want to think I'm like an ass but I also am an ass if I don't tell her while she's in prep so I like sent that awkward DM or I'm like hey you might not care and you might want to tell me to leave you alone but I have to tell you that you know because she was just one set one to like I walked by a few times the last few weeks where she's either holding the front of it yep or locked elbows on the sides and I'm like oh you're doing all that work and you're going to have to do more than you have to do time wise if you just let go same with like a long laying over the stepper you know they carry a bone in length balance only balance only your hands can be on their lightly for balance that's it yeah always if I can see your triceps because you're locked down on it right yeah no bueno no bueno I don't lie a little bit of that tension a little bit of that tension on each step I'm a little bit of a rhythm to it though you know yeah yeah my rhythm is just a walk past that and get on a treadmill um yeah yeah and I do like ten more sets of squats and then not do the stepper please oh I will squat faster is that a thing yeah we got a squat real fast let's see how about this one he says uh uh coach of mine told me and this is also from patreon he says coach of mine told me about Soviet era training um he says in which apparently athletes would never know how much weight or reps they were going to do the coach would load the weight and then instruct them to push until they can't and then do three more do you guys think there's a difference um uh between using training intensity to drive weights and reps as opposed to traditional methods of using weight and reps to drive intensity you think the the with there be any advantage to this or disadvantage yes the advantage the the advantage is simple to me and it's impossible to do for yourself but if you watch sometimes you'll watch videos you'll tell a client like in an intense client some of you who works hard you'll say are were shooting for 12 to 15 and right around 11 it gets really really hard but at 10 it was effortless or you know point being is there is a point where they know where their line is and sometimes they'll feed it you know uh or they'll stop at 15 because they got 15 and the the set was 12 to 15 uh there's something to be said for one more I used to love that when I trained with Chris Cormere he would do that I wouldn't know how many we were doing and I'd start going and he'd be like three more and I do two more and he'd go three more and I do two and he'd be like four more and I started to realize two things number one he can't count number two it doesn't matter so I literally just would go and the workouts were nasty because the number did not matter and I understood what he was doing he thought when he said three more the first time that was all I had and then I'd get two more and he was very clear that there was more in the tank and and I did have phenomenal workouts because of that and I think I learned to ignore my own line there and I think people need to really consider that so the advantage I wouldn't want to not know the weight because the weight is important like you know I have an idea of I want to know what I'm about to lift off all right that part is important to me like I can't imagine lifting off and it being 455 or it being 225 yeah and not only that I've had a initial shock yeah you know because yeah it's important I mean you anybody who's ever stepped off the rack with like 600 pounds on a squat like you want to know it's 600 pounds before you lift up and take that first step it kind of allows you to get amped for that step back like oh right that's that's an important part of the exercise is stepping it off the rack you know I I guess I understand like they're hoping that the mental they're hoping that it's a positive a net positive on like the mentality I guess is that what they're doing but I'm just wondering if it would be a net positive you know I'm I mean I I remember hearing that there were there there was a Russian weight lifter who was going for his gold medal and the it was like do we go for the gold medal or do we go for the gold medal and the world record right and he was like well let's go for the gold medal but the coach was like it's go for the world record put another like two pounds on or whatever and then they like got it and then he told him after he's like we went up and he's like oh I remember hearing that story but you know that's that's yeah brief benefit and I think we talked about that I did that to my training partner month or so ago I just added a plate that he didn't know I put on because yeah yeah stuff like that yeah but he was prepared for it to be really heavy and it was really heavy it was just a little really heavier than he knew yeah he was actually different than like to be completely not knowing yeah like could you imagine if I was just like you know me as your backspotter and two guys lifted the bar off on like an incline bench and then let go all you were just handed it to you and you're like oh and you got done I was like yeah that was 520 you're something I would have like known before I felt it bust my elbows out yeah that's that's an interesting thing that's guy like that all right how about this one Chris Bumstedt says uh let's see what mr. Olympia from what years passed would C-Bum beat and how far back in time would Chris's physique be the winner of the Olympia and we're talking open body building here first adjustment Chris Bumstedt did not say that okay moving yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah Chris Bumstedt said no Mike Chris Bumstedt had some guy knew no I said it had a question Chris Bumstedt 6479 yeah yeah yeah that says very well I think it would go back to um early Lehanie era before Lehanie that era there he might fit in there I mean before Lehanie we're looking at like you know Dickerson and guys like that which you'll Chris would smoke those guys is a list you know Chris Chris would you know obviously beat dust fringles in there you know he does fringles in Chris Dickerson Franco you know I mean Sergio and Larry would he dust Arnold while I mean by our standards yes you know he would dust Arnold in you relatively every pose development wise conditioning you know does he beat Samir Benu that one year yeah probably it's a Samir was pretty awesome that year though yeah it's um I think what's tricky like you said Ron is like we're mentally bringing our standards to them yeah and you guys are all witnessed this even even at like a local show someone will show up say not body to him like figure where she's nuts and you're like okay she's either winning the entire show or she's getting fourth right right like you know what I mean and and us as people who are thinking like pros or like top level national thinks she should win but there are those cases where it's like she's the odd man out she's too hard maybe not now but maybe like five or six years ago it was like oh they had a this gray area where they were supposed to be um because yeah if you ask me the him versus Arnold I'm like oh Chris wins every single time because he's because my brain is on today standards and he has the same classic shape but it's better you know I mean you know I'm going to get this guy to let you out so here we go you know yeah yeah yeah yeah I think Chris Bum said has enough fans that I can actually say something against Arnold and not be a tech yeah yeah like conditioning wasn't as important then legs weren't as important then you know yeah but still you know his physique beats them yeah yeah good question all right what else do we hit you guys see did you guys see that Bum said was on Jordan Peterson's podcast I didn't see it but I heard he was yeah do you check the live I've listened to most of it I'm almost the whole way through I've got like five minutes left how wasn't even I know the answer but I was it interesting well it's good it's not and it's not as much of an interview it's it's almost like like Jordan probably talks for half of it like there's a bunch of periods where Jordan talks like 10 minutes straight but it's almost like you're not watching an interview with Chris you're watching Jordan give Chris a two hour session really so like you know they're talking about like some pretty deep stuff and Chris is like you know he'll ask Chris a question and Chris will go on for like five minutes and then Jordan will take that and run with it for like five ten minutes but you'll see that Chris is like really like he's listening and like taking it in and you know it's pretty interesting you know some people don't like J.P.s cadence and you know his wordsmithing and how you know academic he speaks but I think the general it was good to see Jordan kind of develop a respect for Bum's stead over the course of the interview like it's like he really was you could see everyone's so well Jordan would like look down and write something like take notes on something Bum's didn't said and there was a few periods of time where Chris was talking about like you know his mindset going into the Olympia and being present and you know how he looks at you know opportunity and stuff and you could see Jordan would go hmm and like look down and make notes and you're like oh he found that interesting yeah so Chris really came across as like you know Chris I'm going to see J.P. in May. No kidding I'm so dumb run I mean on so many levels but on this specific one I didn't know that you could like go watch him I'm like a fan that watch all this stuff and a friend of mine was like oh I'm going to see him on Monday and I was like what and she was I've seen him twice and I was like yeah he's like a comedian she goes yeah same thing I am a comedian she's done tool right now I'm telling Nicky the story and of course what happens when you tell Nicky anything she just does it oh sure okay let's go I should have kept up a dire yeah still I'm like oh sweet married it's a liar I did I saw it it was a it was a few years ago before covid it was Jordan Peter said the debating stand on Harris what's that you can say that word it's like fuck but worse oh yeah okay it's got it was J.P. in need debated Sam Harris and they had Brett Weinstein as the moderator and at the time I was into some some topics that all three were heavily discussing so I got tickets for the friend we went down and we watched it theater was packed like huge line up outside theater was packed crowd was crazy when J.P. came on stage they erupted like he was a rock star when Sam Harris came on stage they erupted like he was a rock star for at Weinstein come on stage they erupted like the crowd was just awesome like and then they had this debate which was really interesting you know I I I I cited with Sam through most of the debate but I really wanted to hear Jordan's take and I respect his take they kind of were talking about religion and that's kind of one of the things I depart from J.P. on because he's you know a bit but he's a pretty religious guy at the root right so I don't really share that with him but so in this particular debate I was citing with Sam mostly but man was it interesting and just how nice the crowd was and how friendly everyone was like when you're all like going into the theater everyone's like hi how's it going could you I'm excited like was really crazy vibe not like a material concert yeah yeah yeah and and then I remember there were like protesters out front was like really god yeah we were leaving the show and they were like protesters like down with J.P. you know they were just upset about something I don't know so I was funny Ron is I'm hit this one I'm going to is based in religion and that's why I mentioned to go because I don't do religion right I like that like it's funny but I I'm a contrary to most of the world now like I want to hear what you think when I think right you know because like you know where it comes from and and allow it to alter or let my brain go where it goes with information but it's it's funny because I remember when Nikki read the title of it I don't remember she read it she was going to go actually did the pause for me and I was like right yeah I want to see you know I mean I I like listening to a lot of it stuff you know not everything sometimes a little too you know I don't watch like an hour long seminar on you know marriage strategy I'm not gonna you know I'm gonna let you know I'm gonna let you know I'm gonna let you know I'm gonna ask all the others yeah yeah but that's it's cool to go watch interesting speakers have you guys ever seen Henry Rollins never in person I've heard about it yeah a bunch of times yeah he was cool I went saw him do a spoken word tours a few times yeah he's just basically I just tell crazy stories right because he's got so many crazy stories so he's just storyteller but yeah yeah he was awesome so that sort of thing could be a lot of fun sometimes I want Ron to start doing these because he's a storyteller and I would actually attend and pet go I think we'd find a few people here that listen to go that we don't go absolutely I just load him up with topics maybe piss him off and then let him roll yeah it sounds familiar I feel like that you may have done that before I don't need to leave a house to do that ballad point I'm just just just thoughts instead of spending money you could make money ah there you go guys I gotta know I got a few here we need to rapid fire through the people have their questions we got to answer so question for the next podcast you guys consider taking TRT prescribed by your doctor the same as someone on gear he said I have to use the word because he said it or taking is it like gear or taking roads I hate that word that's the worst word ever can we not use that word just the word roids it's just a terrible word yeah roids is so like uh it's like kind of negative negative early 90s it is it's a good early 90s slur it is it's not it's a really guys you know roid heads yeah ties in what was the question again so are you are you on gear are you are you are you are you are you are you are you are you are you on roids or on if you're okay so so technically for it to be exactly the same you'd have to get your test levels checked you know and find out exactly where they are and then you'd have to like let's say they come back mid range and then you you you you go on TRT but you just taken after TRT that your test levels just stay in mid range so you essentially shut your system down, but then just replace it with exactly where you were. That's natural. Anything above that is slightly augmented for sure. Not natural anymore. Like TRT is not natural, because natural is getting old and dying. Right? Yeah. Natural. Natural is like that's natural. Everything getting worse and worse every day until the very end. That's natural. Right? So as soon as you start suspending that process or delaying it at all, you can't say you're natural anymore. I do believe there is like it's not black or white. It's not like your juice or your nitty. No, there is a there is a different zone and it's augmented. It's optimized. We use these optimists. Yeah. I don't know. That's a good one. Read 100%. I don't want to extend our rapid fire. All right. So I'm just going to say, greet on a person. All right. How about this one, then guys? Okay. Have any of you experimented with intermittent fasting for a diet to shed body fat? Or is it just a dangerous tool that's a last resort? Dangerous meaning fear of losing muscle mass? So I have I toyed with I didn't do intermittent fasting ever, but I have toyed with like not eating for longer periods of time after I get up. And um, um, you know, because I figure, okay, why do people do fast cardio? This was my experiment. I was like people do fast cardio because, you know, they're burning calories while they're in an unfed state and all the kind of theory behind that. So I remember like one one prep. I was like, you know, I'm just going to like, I was time for an adjustment. I remember I was like, hmm, do I like want my cardio a bit or, you know, what am I going to do? And I was like, I'm just going to move my breakfast back 90 minutes. And I'm going to do all my house chores in the morning. I do all my laundry, you know, cook all my meals, all like do all this stuff. And then I'll eat breakfast at like, like an hour and a half later than normal. And I'm going to start doing that. And I was like, oh, that like, I got leaner because it was just, it was just activity, you know, it was just activity. So, but, but that's the only thing I ever really did with like, you know, extending, you know, that, whether they not eat till 6 p.m. most of them. It all varies. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This is going to be a long period. Right vegan. Um, yeah. Uh, only thing I did Dante and I, um, to help with digestion and kind of just pulling in my midsection at one point. We would do a one day a week, a long gap. But it was, it wasn't really that difficult because I would eat my last meal a camera the time was like 8 a.m. or 8 p.m. and then go through the whole night. And then I want to say it was like, you know, 10 or noon that I would eat again. And it wasn't very difficult to do once a week. It wasn't really a big deal. I was also on a very high fat low carb diet at the time. Um, so I did notice between those two things, you know, things came down. I, I do find for me if I avoid carbs, my stomach is weight tighter, or was when I was eating a ton now, it doesn't matter. I'm tight all the time. But when I was pushing food, I did notice the difference in that. Um, but I stopped because it didn't, it became one of those things that, you know, raw and mental is all the time where I might say, we're focused on this tiny little thing. And I think there's bigger things that would give me a higher impact like, I don't know, doing transvership, domino training instead. Right. You know, and I think that's we get caught on those things pretty often. It's like, oh, this tiny little thing. It's like, oh, can I suggest you just like lift heavier? Good call. Yeah. Lift heavier. Yeah, that was, that's actually funny. Someone asked, they were showing me. They said, how do I get rid of this belly fat? And I just said, the more you move and the more you lift, the faster that will disappear. Yeah. I said, and they were like, oh, all right. I think it's a push away from the table. Um, yeah. I think this one's from George White here. He says, um, it's from YouTube. So it's not his real name. It's like, geo, geo. Um, right. Question. I, I, I, he says, I haven't, I usually don't have questions. You guys, consolidate 99% of what I already believe, but here's my pathetic attempted a question. What should someone who has trained for 40 years competed for 39 years do now. He says he's still growing and Benchying three plates, but he's about to turn 60 and seven months and it sounds like he's he's going to stop competing. Oh, um, wow. I mean, I don't really tell people what to do. The guy sounds like he's he's, uh, he's got iron in his blood for sure. And, uh, I mean, it's just a healthy man. If you've been competing for 39 years and you're still able to train like that great shape. That a really good job of keeping your body together. You know what I mean? And, um, just focus on that. Like, you know, focus on keeping your body together and just look at, start looking at longevity as your goal because you're so many miles ahead of the average person with like your general fitness and your strength and all this, the, those markers that are supposed to carry you on, you know. So just look at what an advantage you had been to just position you have to focus on maximum number of years now. Because you've got this quality foundation of like this, you know, hopefully really, really good situation that he's in now. Because anyone who's you know, rowing and Benching three plates is like, like, doesn't sound like his shoulders are blowing out or he's got a bad back or anything, you know what I mean? Yeah. So like that's that's incredible. My, my first thought was actually because he didn't mention like changing his training, just sounds like a competition is done. Uh, if you're pushing 60 years old and you've been competing this time, the one thing, uh, my knee jerk, because I know that's what I ran into is you need somewhere to put that competitive nature. I don't know where and it doesn't need to be actual competition. But there needs to be a competition within you somehow because I just can't imagine. And I mean, you got nearly 20 years on me, like I can't imagine that that goes to sleep. If you've been driven to compete at 59 years old, then I think there has to be something that you're doing, um, because you're a strong person and I'm not talking about physically like you enjoy the chase, the hunt, the, you know, the overcoming all, you know, the competition itself. So I think you got to find something in that because I'm a firm believer if those things disappear, you, you die. Like, yeah, you know, I say that all the time, my mother used to talk about retiring and I'm like, that sounds like death. No, yeah. I get on retire. I don't want to slow down and I want to stop thinking reading, training, whatever it is, like you've got to keep moving. So I think if not, you'll find, I would start tinkering around with other things, you know, like Rhonda's like, it was something I really appreciated watching. I was like, okay, he's taken the time that's the bodybuilding has freed up or the focus and saying guitars, bike, all these things that he had, you know, wanted to do maybe, but couldn't. And that altered state allows you to let it go because I think if not, that's where you see people disappear from bodybuilding come back. Yeah, yeah. And also just the risk to reward of the type of training that is required, you know, be big. Like, like, you certainly don't want to be 62 and then start tearing packs and shit, like, like, like, just of, if you haven't done that already, just consider yourself a winner. You survived the mad man. Like, don't challenge yourself. Yeah, don't start tearing shit now. Like, like, reassess where you're at, take really good carry your body. You probably have, if you're hardcore bodybuilder and that's all you've been doing, you probably have some some issues with things not being quite, you know, balanced and operating properly. Like, and you're probably not fully like, bodybuilding all that and you got some problems. Yeah. Yeah. You want to, you want to, you want to, yeah. You're my mentally physical, never mind. Right. Plus, he's only 15 away. He's only 15 years away from having to worry about falling and breaking hips. So he's got to keep a good motor. He should do some athletic stuff. Maybe a little footwork. No, he's getting a growth. He's fine. Yeah. I'm just busing balls. I'm not going to be able to get to all of them. Like, we did get a lot of questions, which you guys are freaking awesome in please for we're getting to where the end. So for our last five, 10 minute crew, I don't know how far we are from the end. I want to say leave us questions for the next show because we're going to need them. Kyle asked us once again. This is from Patreon, though. He says, um, okay. So looking at some IG videos, he says, does he doing JM presses? He sets up backwards on the bench. I'm curious what his reason is for this. We do in JM presses. Are you doing your skull crushers? Yeah. I mean, essentially it's potato batiles. Like, when people say the, uh, you know, RDL versus stiff legs. Okay. I thought a JM press was something different. I thought it was more like, uh, like, it is. It is. It kind of, that's the thing. I mean, it's basically, like, a lot of people say a skull crushers over your head, okay. Standing, you know. So, but you know, he's talking about. So basically JM, JM presses more like hanging more off the bench. No, no, no, it's actually it's actually more like bench press pushing forward. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Okay. But, um, the reason I set up that way is because it's easier for me to get underneath the bar, unracket and not worry about hitting the rack. And I don't need a spot because unraking from overhead and then lifting it out and then doing his means I can't, and then straightening out and then having to like, heave it back if I'm alone. I'm just not comfortable with and I did find that if I, when I got used to just turning around, throwing my ass through the ground, you know, just hanging down there that I never felt like I wanted, like, flip over anything. I felt really stable. It could bounce my feet in. It was just easy to do because I only really have a spot on those. If I want to plan on pushing a couple extra reps, you know, plus I usually just use naked to get more hits on my videos. If I'm being honest. So I'm a marker. Thank you. I was in marketing. I'm like, let me see that video. Yeah. Yeah. I'll slide over the left here. I'm in it too much. You're in it not enough. Um, I've been there. Um, no, but that's, uh, that's why it's just it's super easy to unrake that by myself and go. And I hate unraking even a barbell bench on my own. I'm like, you've been 400 pounds on an incline and you're sitting where I need to sit. That the hardest part is unraking it. Yeah. You know, that's why I'm like, here, do you lift this out over my face and then I'm good to go? It's a bad idea. You don't need to be left in 400 pounds over your face anymore, dusty. Look at this. It was already bad. I don't need to make it worse. All right. What else we got? We all, we got one or two more Scott, we can bank through. Uh, we did have a couple. I wanted to ask you guys from kind of get he he asked, uh, are you guys excited or anyone stoked for Deadpool versus Wolverine? I don't know if you guys follow that stuff. Don't care. No, all right. No, all right. No. I got another one. Funny. We'll go straight into another one and shout out to you, kind of kid, for listening to the show. Uh, this is, I think this one takes us back a little bit. Okay. So, uh, question for the next episode. So Dante mentioned that he worked with Sedrick back in 2009 and that he helped him with his to get his arms to blow up. Um, would you all, I like to say y'all, have any idea on the split that Sedrick was using for his arms. He thought Dusty might have some info. I don't know what he was doing. And this is awful, but Dante did something with my arm training as well that I also don't know what I mean. I mean, I don't think a lot of people that follow realize how long, you know, I mean, I worked with the answer for 12 years. Yeah. Like so the amount of things that that he has adjusted and we've done even stuff on the fly that he created just for me. That's why it wouldn't even even if I knew what I what I did, I would tell you what I did. It's not necessarily what Sedrick did. That's what makes Dante so interesting to me as someone who's just like a student of the game is he's got a way of stepping back from a situation. Um, and like he says getting weird with it. Yeah. But it's not Instagram weird. It's not Charles Glass weird and I'm going to take heat for that. But I think Charles sometimes just does stuff to make it weird so people will hire him. I see things and I'm like, that's absolutely not better. I don't care how you cut it. It's not. There's other things he does that I think are absolutely genius. But Dante will be like, hey, I want to try and he'll write out a long explanation and I'll send a video back and I'm like, is this who we're talking about? And he's like, I know, alter this this and I find him like, oh, yeah, that's that's different. That's a different pain. I think we can run with this or I can progress with it. You know, and same thing with DC training. I think people need to realize that when he came out with that, it was a high volume world. And he just threw up a post. He's like, oh, this is what I do. It's a little different and it exploded. It wasn't unlike now where any time you see somebody come out with their secret plan. It's got a name to it. They're just won't clap. It's I'm in a bout results. And that's why he did so well. So what he would do for me and my world class physique versus sedrics, metaphysique, probably not the same. Probably not the same. Did I get the world's class backwards? I think I did. Yeah. That's his rapid fire answer. All right. Got one more might be controversy. This is from Georgina, by the way, over at Patreon. She says, there's might be controversial, but interested your opinions on verilized female competitors. Obviously, they're degrees to this. And a whole fetish scene. But what about regular bodybuilding guys? Is it a turn on or a turn off? I think some guys probably don't want to admit stuff. So there's that. I don't know. I don't know. I said, I met that age now where like I see like beauty and like all different types of women. So it's like, I don't know. I'm good. I'm gonna, what do you stay here? So here's the deal. And to me, I want to step into a little bit further back. And this is as a bodybuilder as a male bodybuilder. I don't care. And what I mean is you shouldn't, you shouldn't care. And I appreciate the question. I mean, to be disrespectful. But like, if you are a female bodybuilder, I didn't get into bodybuilding that pickup checks. I was very clear. And you know, yeah, not a single, not a single woman that I've been with was like because I was big. In fact, I always ask because I like to just, I'm curious. Like, what is your thing? Nicky would prefer me, better than I am now. Like, that's just her thing. She thinks it's a better look than abs. You know, right? All my exes before, smaller that I can wear better looking clothes. Like, so my, my point is, and then this is something I say in reverse for guys because contrary to our egos, women don't make every move they make for us. And the quicker that men and women can just do what you want to do, the better because, you know, when you find the guy that's interested in you, whether it's because you have those attributes or he doesn't care because he likes you for what you are, you found the winner. And anyone who doesn't, you know, if I was single and like, oh, it's gross or you're by-bearing like, why we got that out of the way? Yeah, move on. You know what I mean? So, um, there's obviously fetishes for things like that, but, you know, my answer is simple. Um, one, Nicky, for example, when we got together, she was training kind of mom for sure and living life and that's how we connected and now she's getting ready for a body of one, and show she was never going to do. And I don't care what happens when it's over. Like, when you win you with someone who's what you, you know, your person, you don't care what they do. You know, I mean, I know that Emily was waiting for Ron to get back into flatland, but she had to put in the time. Put in the time. Yeah, she's never cared. Um, it's funny. I have a friend who's who married a like, like, serious hardcore female bodybuilder, right? She's done now. But he, he married her and he was never in to big chicks or bodybuilder chicks ever. Like, he, he remembers like, thinking, oh, I'm not into that at all. I'm not into that at all. And then, you know, he's spent 10 years, 15 years in the gym and winds up meeting this, this chick who happens to be a hardcore bodybuilder and they just like, they're perfect match. And now he's married to her and then like, she still kept competing for a few years after that and he said, oh, man, she looks so awesome. Like, he's got ready to do it. Yeah. So it's just like, it's, it's just, you know, I don't know, it's, it comes down to the person and, you know, like, if you're right for somebody, you'll be right for somebody and it's just, yeah, I mean, who cares, you know, it, we need a lot of different people out there to make the world interesting. So you don't don't alter anything you want to do. Yeah. As a goal for, for getting someone because you're already off, you know, like, you go altering your your goals as a bodybuilder because you want the sky, then you get them, then you break up and you can't go back. The body doing's over. You know, so yeah, you know, other anything for anybody that really made me think that the other way around, like you said, dusty like girls aren't in girls aren't out there. A lot of girls at least aren't out there looking for guys because they're as massive as possible. Two things. Number one, so putting out reels on YouTube, we get a different demographic of people that are just watching reels, you know, and we had somebody comment on one of our reels who's not a follower of ours or anything. And it was something about like getting huge or taking gear or something. I can't remember what the real was about, but I had something to do with hardcore bodybuilding and the guys comment with something like, I don't want to say the be word because I don't know how YouTube feels about that. But you could imagine him using a he's like, you know, girls don't, girls don't even care, yeah, girls don't even want guys that are that big. So why do you even care about doing this stuff? I like I don't even comment back to him. So that was one thing. And I remember getting into like deciding, making the decision in my late 20s, like, okay, this is what I'm going to do and going from like very small. Like I was 115 to 125 pounds. Not a big guy at all. And I remember people telling me, like, you know, girls don't really find that attractive and girls I know girls I remember. Like, you know, I really don't, I like, girl I'm not dating told me like, you know, I'm not, I don't find that attractive. I don't know why you don't want to do that. It's like, they don't say that anymore. You know, you reach a point where you get so far into the community of bodybuilding that it's like, you just always feel small no matter what. No matter what. It's normal, you know, I don't know about you guys, but I have a hard time anymore. And this is kind of segue. I have a hard time seriously telling if people lift weights in public or not. Like if somebody is walking around in the store, I can't tell if they are like big. Unless they are like freaking feel heath big. Right. But like they have to be really big for me to be like, oh, that guy's a bodybuilder. And it's not that I'm like, jaded or I just don't, I literally, I don't see it. Yeah. That's funny. Yeah. It all twists. But I love the extent that Scott, because it's very true. Like you were told that like, yeah, I didn't get into the inside of bodybuilding to pick up chicks. But in reverse, a lot of men make those comments to women. Why would you do that? Oh, even more. Even because I like bodybuilding more on like you were never an option. Don't worry. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's a good question. It's a good question. Yeah. We could go for hours. That was not a great addition to the rapid fire. No, but we did power through. We did power through all the questions. Dusty, you had some more that we'll have to save. I'm going to make a list. So we'll hold on to because you put up your question thread. People should go over to your Instagram too. Well, it's given this is going to be over by the time. It's gone. It's never mind. But we do them all the time. Yeah. We'll be at home. Show no. I shouldn't mention this at the beginning. Guys, I figured out how to do video on Spotify. So now if you're watching the show or listening to the show on Spotify, it also in addition is video as well, just like Joe Rogan and everything else like that. Don't want to say hi. It's a paid honor. There she is. We just got so many more hits because she came. She just came down the stairs for quick hello. All right, Don's you gotta go. Okay. Okay. Well, good to see you guys. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and bring them up. There we go, guys. Remember, I'm mutant.com, 20% off. Dusty, 20, big, Ron, 20. Get your all and get your ISO surge and everyone should get on the gear. That's it, Adjell. I'm in. Hey. There you go. Okay. Excited for the Arnold. How long to we actually go again? Real soon. It's week. Real soon. That's a good next show. It'll be like a week in a hour. So damn it's coming. I look forward to seeing you guys. We got to have a little meet up about what we're going to do. Yes. Yes. You know, it doesn't. It's got sense of amount of training video. So I'm down. Yeah. I want to do some sort of I'm going to shoot as much videos I can and I want to try to get like dusty. I know you. We should go to the screen. Yeah, especially like you know, I don't know if you guys do like morning training before the expo if that's your normal thing, but we'll figure out what we have to. Not not that late. We'll figure something like that. I was going to be telling a video. You guys are all going to see it on YouTube too. Okay. We'll see you guys. Remember, it's just body building. You

Ask yourself if you're feeling the muscle that's intended. I feel like that's a big thing people miss when they're starting to get into progressive overload. They're just moving weight, you know, or even on a negatives, you know, I was just explaining the Nikki yesterday. We're doing like real slow negatives on a leg press. And I said, no, make sure when you're going slow, you're not just going slow. Do you feel your quad being what's resisting the negative? That matters. I love feeding trolls sometimes wrong. You know, I enjoy. Sometimes I'm like, I just lean back and I'm like, this is going to hurt you more than me. I had a guy like go back and forth with me for a while. I was just like a annihilating him. And I felt sort of feel bad. And then someone else commented literally, like, you know, you're going back and forth and people are just watching. And then finally, guy commented, he's like, bro, you have got into a battle of widths and you are completely unarmed. This little, this was what's this guy. That's funny. I was like, this is getting ugly and people are starting to feel bad. I guess I'll stop. Donna, your anger. It's why are you so angry? Dogs read the personality of their owners. You know, and they just get really like that he's picking on Cuba. You're like it. Like in all neck. It's cute. Donna. I, uh, I just can't. I can't. I don't take them more at all. You're probably better off. You know, you're probably. Really good at resisting. I resist. Um, sometimes I want to add a comment to something. You know, like I want something and I'm like, yeah, fuck, I really want to, and I want to add a comment, but I'm like, I don't know what you're going to be more. Yeah. Yeah. Unless it's like 100%. Like I added a comment the other day on this one guy's guitar channel just because I thought he did like a great job at demoing a product. Yeah. Because like, you know, you see people do product demos and you're like, damn, he didn't, he didn't do the one thing I wanted to do. Yeah. The one thing I wanted to do. I wanted to do the one thing. Get one piece. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? And this guy just like he did a great job. And I thought, oh, Dan, I'm going to watch all of this guys videos. Like this is the guy that I'm going to go to for a product reviews now because I like how, you know, he has one camera on the pedal at all times. So you can see where the knobs are. Yes. And then he'll like move the knobs and you'll see his hand coming to the frame, move the knob and you'll hear the sound change while he moves the knob. Whereas other guys will stop playing move the knob and then go back to playing. And you're like, no, no, I didn't hear it change. Yeah. Like I want to hear dusty. You got it. You got it. You got it. I mean dusty. Like, oh, don't hear it. Totally. Yeah. And this guy does that like he'll let a chord ring and with his other hand while the chord is playing. Like, wow, you'll turn the knob and you're like, oh, okay. And then he'll do it again and then turn the knob. And he's repetitive because he plays the same thing over and over as he's demoing the product. Yeah. So you can do it. We're going to do it. Yeah. Other guys will like, they'll play a certain style of music to show, you know, like, one of the tones, then they'll change the tone and they'll play a different style of music. I'm like, no, no, no, no, I want to hear the same fucking thing. Great. Thank you. Play the same song for every single one. Yeah. And you develop, you develop your preferred people. You know what I mean? No, this is my guy. So I left him a comment. I'm like, you're my guy for products now. Did he get back to you comments straight from the channel? He commented back. Yeah. Good. He commented back. You know what I mean? And I was like, oh, and he responds. Okay. So that's kind of weird. Is I haven't been a, well, I should twice now. This is actually exciting. I just realized this in the last year, I've become a novice at two things. And I love it. Because I've ridden motorcycles, for example, my whole life. Like, I mean, I got my first start by going as four. Yeah. And I got my first Harley when I was 15. Like I've always ridden them. But I never like delved into them. And now that I want to like, I have mine and I want to build it up and make changes. I also want to build one. So I'm like getting into them. And I don't know shit. I don't know anything about them. I don't even know where to look to find out about him. So I have a friend. I had to reach out to him. And I said, I said, hey, you might have asked if you questions. And he's like, absolutely. And he works for Harley. And he knows those should I go. I'm going to make this simple. Where should I go watch everything I need to learn? Because if not, I'm going to need to speak to you for the next month and a half over just starting right now and nonstop. So he sent me a few just that YouTube videos. So I could really get into because there's a lot of things that you don't realize, like, especially for dumbasses like me, where you put yourself in a position in life where you don't know enough. And you can waste a lot of money. Yeah. Yes. Like you're like, oh, yeah. This is the, you know, oh, there's this engine that's a 131. It's the biggest one. That's what I want to get. I actually said that to myself. I said, I think I want to go to the, you know, but get my own change after the 131 goes. That's expensive. And you can make a 111, 131 for less money. I'm like, that's why fucking message. That's my, because it kind of like me walk straight to the shop and goes, yeah, I want to do that though. I go, okay, John asks, give me 10 grand. I have a gun guy. I have a gun guy that I do the same thing. And I was going to get my first pistol on that first, but for my carry pistol, I was going to get a revolver. And I talked to him about it. And he said, yeah, you don't want that. But I thought all the, all the good reasons why I wanted that revolver. And, and then since then, he's, he's become my guy for questions. But I, I try not to bother him too much. Shut up to Peter. That's, that's great. There was nothing to do. I don't know. I know like when he got someone to give you a link. Yeah. I really enjoy not knowing stuff though. Like I sit around and I did cardio this morning and all I did was watch YouTube videos about motorcycles. The whole time. Right. I could have done an hour. No problem today because everything I'm hearing, I've never heard before in my entire life. Yeah, it's brand new. Isn't that a great feeling? Yeah. Oh, yeah. You know, I don't talk about because it's all you do. That's why I think that's why I'm doing it all. I think that's why I think that's why I enjoy my, my two hobbies so much because I can constantly still learn like I still, like I'm still picking up like Lingo and like there's little like the things you hear guys talk about and you start to like read through the code. Like I can, I can look at a flat land like BMX flat land post now with like two guys from the 90s and they'll be telling a story. Like I'll remember that time, blah, blah, blah and the list guys by their first names. I remember it was Danny and Dave and John and I'm like, oh, they're talking about this guy, this guy and this guy and they must have been and you start to like understand all the stuff that's going on and it makes it fun. And there's like so much more to learn and the history and all that stuff and products like dusty like dusty over late to this. I'm like, I'm like a super like I'm a tech guy like I love the gadgets. Really, no like I love I love the bike parts. Like when I see another flat land rider, when I see another flat land rider, I'm like, oh, what frame you riding? What are your hubs? What are your rims? And I got to like break his bike down and I go he selected these parts. I know what website he shopped off of. Yeah. He's off that one website that carries those three brands. He built his bike off that website and I want to put it together. Yeah. I want to figure it out. You know, and then when I see like you know like when I walk into the guitar store, I go look over it, I go look at all the pedals. I'm like, I'm going to try a pedal. I've never listened to before and you know, I plug it in one here. It sounds like and like they all sound almost the same, right? Like the distortion pedals are all distortion pedals. Right. You know, you get the wind drinkers out there that like, oh, I can hear the, you know, guys that's a little bit of a buzz and the treble and there's a little bit less bottom end. And they look a little bit different. You know, and they take people outside of this. Yeah, they're all big. Yeah. They're all giant. Right. All right. Right. And then there's that whole spectrum from there from the, oh, they all look like all look the same to the intricate physique breakdowns. Yeah. And there's that whole spectrum in the middle. Yeah. I'm like just an early stage now where I'm like, I can hear the differences of some things, but other things on my idea also on the same. It's a good place to be. Keep your tongue. You know, keeps you learning. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's fun. So I feel like that's the, you know, that's the thing that you had said, Ron, I think my newman last year. But to challenge yourself to try new things. Yes. And it's, it's really fun to be at that point. And the only thing that I get a kick out of is the amount of people who want to present themselves as experts when they're novice. It's very funny to me. You know, like, I'm so open. Like, I'm like, I don't know shit about anything. You know, I think what's the thing? I don't know fuck about shit. So yeah, I literally will come in. Yeah, I'm like, I don't know anything here. And then I find that people quickly then give you information. Yeah. If you just drop it, you know, I have no idea. Because there's, I think, and they're like, oh, I remember when I was where you are, let me help you out, you know? Yeah. So they're excited and definitely fun. But I see what you meant, Ron. I found a guy today. Actually, so I'm getting into like the history of motorcycle clubs. Like, the gangs of motorcycles. Yeah. I found a dude who collects all their stuff. I mean, we're talking, he has old pictures of like 70s, Hell's Angels guys that died. And I can't even imagine what his collection costs. But I think it was the single way that stuff. Oh, it's nuts. And they're own like handwritten journals about when the clubs started to loop. I mean, it still finds like S.O.A. for real. Like when they're like, oh, this is when we start to lose our shit, a little sort of killing people. And you know, it's just wild to make is you're looking back and you're like, this is really how it was. Like it started out as something. And it's like people who collect, I know that like Sereo colors are really popular. Yeah. Collectors. Yes. Like things they do. Yeah. So this is the same only, at least I feel a little bit like a lot. I'm killing random people. There's killing each other. But it's like, it's easy to see. Yeah. It's far, I know. I mean, one of them might be who knows. But you do it just becomes like a rabbit hole thing. Like last night, I spent like an hour and a half just looking at this guy's stuff and watching his videos. I'm like, I mean, how does someone know to reach out? Like this guy's wife was reached out. And she's like, I found a trunk of all my husband's stuff. He was the president of this charter. Right. You know, right. I want to sell it to you. And he's like, yeah. He's balling out his mind. I was like, I don't know why they were that shit costs. But it's pretty cool. Yeah. I've read a few of the books. So it was like books about the 70s like the California stuff and and the New York stuff and I've read a few books. And I read Chuck Zito's book. Oh yeah. Yeah. You guys know who Chuck Zito was? Yeah. I read Chuck Zito's book. Street Justice. Yeah, I read he's book. He's a real interesting dude. So yeah. Yeah, that was that was, that was a cool book. I met him, too. Is that the limpio one year? Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, I don't know were you with me dusty because it wasn't that long ago Yeah, I was like leaving him here and I Chuck Zito standing there and like a leather trench coat Really you're like wait a minute. Yeah, and I look at him and you know like you know when you're like You know you look at someone and you give each other the haynod you've never met before Yeah, but they still just for some reason there's like a moment where they say hey bro, and you say hey bro Yeah, so I kind of like looked at him and we both said hi to each other and I'm like oh well like just sort of We just said hi to each other. I might as well stop and talk to him for a minute. So I just like shook his hand I go hey, Chuck, you know if I can You know watch what's on TV and everything like that, you know because he was he was in a couple TV shows So you know, it was he was cool guy, you know, he was a karate champion He was huge There's a lot of those guys. I found one last night and I wish I knew his name because I literally was just skimming But this guy was was a big in And one of the bit I think it was house angels in and up in witness protection lived his whole life Then he died and when they went into his stuff That's when they found out who he was and they found his all the best stuff and this guy actually ended up buying it all But it's like yeah, he lived like 20 years under a different alias And no one had any idea, but then when he died and they you know They clean out his shit because I guess they never family or anything at that point They found it all and they're like holy shit this guy that works at the supermarket was Right, yeah, you know So cool um Speaking of like real life stuff Scott you reminded me to watch woodstock that train wreck. Oh, yeah, yeah You watched that train wreck woodstock. So we watch the first two last night. Okay. Yeah It's like I forgot About I forgot about limp biscuit on Saturday night and how Fred Durst like made it so much worse. Yeah But at the same time it's not like I remember watching it. I was like oh and hindsight like It's it's not Fred's fault. No Fred was doing his job Yeah, that's what he did Fred's job Fred's job is to be the Frontman of limp biscuit and blow the fucking doors off the joint like that's his job And he did his job. I was how to do probably the best he's ever done it that night the best he's ever done He just yeah like he was hanging to the crowd He was handed an Angry frustrated heat stroked Dehydrated pissed off crowd that was in the very end of day two Who have all realized that the wheels have fallen off this festival They've realized the garbage is not being picked up. They've realized the toilets are not gonna be cleaned They've realized they're completely on their own They're fast water and food fruit screwed for water screwed for food and the festivals almost two thirds over Yeah, and it's now time for limp biscuit And limp biscuit comes out and sing and give me something to break and Fredderers just keeps pumping them up that you know like a tars come down for the little break and and and Fred Durst is like let's get all that anger. Yeah, let's build all that anger Let's get it all out when I flint drop this when we drop this can beat you can let it out Yeah, he just like gets the crowd oiling everything that you've been angry about that every thing You're angry about yeah, boss you down deep Bring it out and then then then the beat you know get me soft to break and then it just can drops and then they rip the Can sound booth apart the sound tower out in the middle of the the thing that the people working in the sound tower Send an SOS they're like we need someone to come and get us out of here And we can't get out of here. They're ripping the tower apart like they're worried So you know a bunch of security guys go out there and they like bring them over the wall of the tower and get them out of there And they had to abandon this sound tower and they rip it apart pull the plywood off the walls You know So yeah, was this you know is we've and all the fires like cars on fire and the flip cars over and shit like yeah It was nuts what they did Yeah, and then the funny part was The organizers finally said like I guess Limit biscuit had only been on for 45 minutes. Yeah, yeah, and and the promoters like we got to they're done Like we got to pull the link biscuit. So when the song ended whatever song they were on They like told Fred they're like that's it sets over news like Kate and they went walked off stage and then Bush had to go out and Bush is like a great rock band but they're like, you know, he's he's a heartthrob They're not like not limp biscuit, right? It's like good looking Gavin. He's singing about you know, you know So Gavin has this it's really cool like the interview Gavin. He's like you know There's two ways to do this like like we can either go out there and just Get boot off stage because we don't know how to handle that like you know They're like what is Gavin gonna do with this crowd because it's really hard to do like what do you do with them? Mm-hmm and Gavin Gavin went out and he like restored peace and love Some one yeah No, he like I was very impressed. I was very impressed very impressed in hindsight Yeah, he got the crowd to like calm down and just listen to the music and he kept telling them like you know in between songs like You know You know the peace love and unity of woodstock is all here tonight and he just kept like common them down and then they play another song and yeah It was it was really interesting how they presented it in the documentary so yeah, you know And then you know what in the rave tent that night fat boy slim had to abandon his tower and And least because I didn't look too well and yeah, so I will see how day three goes I don't think it improves any So that's spoiler alert It doesn't alert me It didn't mean to ruin it, but I just really did that Yeah, I really enjoyed the Like the remembering everything because I remember watching that much you know the updates on TV like the much music channel I'm hearing Canada had like someone on site, you know reporting back and all that So Victoria pointed those people out like I didn't know who they were the Canadian. Yeah, into Rick one camp Yeah, yeah, and there was one that was a sock There's a sock yeah, it's a sock. Yeah, it's a sock. Yeah, it's like it's at the sock and I was like who the fuck is that the sock? So she told me he's in the top two all the socks of full right yeah, he'll interview people you know his hat. He's like so you're new album Consacts like you know He'll people people people would put off of them because it was fun. You know like yeah, yeah, yeah I'm learning all sorts all the Canadian stuff though Really good stuff. I didn't know via I got a couple questions for you guys Because I these are words that I wasn't familiar with the Victoria was Beaking you're familiar with the term beaking either of you like running running your mouth running your mouth or chirping Sure, yeah, yeah, okay, so there's already those are whole thing. Yeah, yeah, both hot things I guess and Shmelt's are you familiar with the term shmelt's? I've heard it. I wouldn't use it though. What does it mean? It's like the newbies on the hockey team that get like reamed out all the time and stuff Oh, I can't smell okay. Never heard that you done all my years I thought he might have but I wasn't sure because it's a Canadian so it's like a it's like a jobber and wrestling Yeah, yeah, there you go Yeah, yeah, yeah, I like they had a bunch of stuff on there Look trying to do is an Instagram account. I used to follow it was all hockey fights It's called keep I still follow that keep was it called King chirping keep chirping muddy or something like that It's all hockey fights And then I follow another one spit and checklets Oh, yeah, I follow them spit and checklets is good. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah That's so hockey so Canadian hockey. Okay What's next we got more YouTube questions we've got a ton of YouTube questions and facts All right, so roll with another one This is technically arched it is technically our Q&A episode, right? This is yeah, this will speak Q&A anyways Well, they both kind of like how we've yeah, like how we answered one we took one. Yeah, we don't even know what we're doing anymore Hey, just a common year from come to us who's Canadian She's one of our you know long time listeners. She says it'd be crazy awesome to get Cuba in Jamie and the same podcast in 2023 we could make that happen. We can get that happen. Yeah, yeah, that's easy There was another one here where was this this was such I think a good idea It was directed at Ron how about this one? What do you think of this dusty show idea 20 things that make Ron safe that guy? Yes And I can think of so many because I've actually made Ron say that to me at least 20 times. Yeah Yeah, I got Ron moment today. Yeah, I had a Ron moment today But it was different I was saying that guy and the reason was I pre-ordered my sandwich my glorious sandwich And they left off things on my sandwich. I thought to myself That guy A and B for once I agree with Ron because this sandwich sucks Yeah, it was a tough situation. You know I had I've got guy the other day. Yeah, yeah, I'm kidding nice You know, you know who who gets it from me when I've got when I'm driving and I want to get into the turning lane Which is white on Right, but I can't get into the turning lane Because the guy in front of me is just sitting at the red and he's got like five feet of space before the next car Yeah, oh yeah, and he's oblivious That guy like be aware like how are you not aware that you're right beside a turning lane like when I pull up in that spot Like there's four cars at the light and you're the fifth car and you're kind of gonna be that the guy that blocks the turning lane Yeah, yeah, yeah, like I'll actually I'll actually pull over to the dotted line like I'll take the top corner of that spot To try to get my ass out a bit like I'm aware of other Being people on the road like that's that's a thing and then that this person like I'm sitting right on there So I'm inches from their bumper and I can't get by them because I need like another foot, right? Yeah, and I'm just staring at the side of their head They do not look in their mirror once like they're just sitting there like Like who sits or like this? You don't give like a little tap or did deep meet me. Oh, yeah, well, that's when they get the honk they get the honk and there's no Like not even a flinch Wow like not even a flinch like there's no awareness at that honks for them and then the light turns green and they move a bit I'm just like that guy He's in his own little girl Wasn't he yeah, okay, okay, we got one we got one dusty. I think we're about this there. We're done It ever does Ron is the happiest angry Canadian Anyways But that's that's that's what that guy affords me to do is let it go. I just give him a stroke that guy Yeah, let it go Let it go So he'll get his some talk about him. I'll get him. That's what we had next question for the next show please If you were coaching Nick Walker, how would you fix his lat spread poses? He may have been second place if he could of one two poses for points So I didn't think I mean, was there a lot of talk about his lat spreads? No, I didn't think there was any talk about them I have a great response, but I want to see the pictures first. Yeah, so here's a real life Did you do something I'm not aware of? Yeah, give me a minute. I'll be able to pull a front last spread up too But there's do you guys see anything wrong with that the rear rear lat? Well, I mean I have to see him in person Yeah, I don't know like I mean is that how his back looks fully open or is there more room? I mean I don't see a front here. I mean the traps The traps appear to be pulled pretty tight So that's a good sign the scapula are as far apart as they'll go You know, I don't know I would it you know I'm not gonna criticize I mean fucking crazy muscular you know, straddy glutes shredded hamstrings fucking you know what 285 pounds. I mean yeah Could he be a little could he press it? I guess he could press it open more like if he pushed his spine out more I guess Well, I don't know well, I mean I don't know if he's gonna like like looking at a picture without physically being there I don't know if he's gonna look wider like you know how you might move a guy and then you're like Oh, you don't actually look wider right back and then you move him back right and then you move him another way and you're like oh You look wider there like you're trying to make it dramatic right so I mean First of all I don't see Matt Janssen Standing in front of him in a hotel room and watching him do lat spreads and not saying something if there's a problem You know So there's that I have a I have a few simple thoughts Okay, my first is No one Is beating dareclans for a little at spread Yeah, yes, yeah, you're not gonna lead him up close anyway, so so that's another thing The question is gonna happen next year or this year. Yeah, so That's the one thing and then the the big thing I was gonna say without even seeing the picture is this I used to think about this with Ben Fakalsky right people are you got no back He needs to do more rows and he's do this. I'm like do you think that he hasn't done Everything he could possibly do To make his back better you know now you know So what I see this regardless of any other thought that I can come up with it This is the best his last spread can be in this moment because there's no way like Ron said The between him and his entire team that they just left a pose and that they could have just quickly fixed Yeah, you know what I mean I also think the guy's lose track of the fact of how what this level is like I kind of find it funny to be picking apart the guy who took third at the Olympic and be like wow the last spreads a little week You know for sure You know it's Anything that can be done is being done and I don't think that I don't think that there's anything that I would suggest even if I had great and all it Just there's there's no way and one thing that Ron said that I agree with a hundred percent is Sometimes people want to change things out of habit without watching like I remember I hired Kenny wall to do my posing and I hit my last spread and that my real last spread is just a lights out shot it always was Pretty much or wasn't anybody I was worried about in that pose and I remember Kenny started messing with it He's like well pull your elbows forward more pull him forward more you I always get better results with this and I literally just had Kenny I'm like no one's ever beat me in a back last Mind tire life yeah, why are we talking with right? Like I think you have to have some of that in your mind as well Whereas if it was For me any other shot I was like fix it all they're terrible any advice you have that you think to get a little bit better I'll fucking take because I need every centimeter you know so That is the best way for Nick to hit that shot in my mind because it's the only way someone's obsessive is him would hit it It's the best possible way yeah I had to pull up Derek to just because I wanted to see it now That is a pretty nice time shot It is a crazy shot that's also That pose because I've seen him on stage that's all the way open yet. Yeah, it gets me I think you as one He's not all the way open there. He's just that good Let's see if they got a picture of it. It might be it's like three quarters stood for real It's bonkers when he hits that shot Some of this front and rear double though I'll let me grab the last one. Let's see if this is any different. Let's see if this is any wider here I'll put him up side by side actually so this is right before he stopped this pose and went to the next one more or less the same Yeah, he's not it's actually is better but he's not yeah. I mean come on It's close for a very good There's my point on the shot is it's just nuts. Yeah. He looked really good. Anyway. Yes Okay, I'll wait like a tiger Yeah, what's next? All right Jerry says um now that we see two guys from the two 12 division come in first in second in the open division What are your thoughts on how well flex Lewis would have done if he had competed? That's a great question. Great question. I saw it because I looked through the YouTube comments and I saw that comment and I I was like That's fucking good one I actually thought about that when we were watching the show And it was like Derek and Hottie like and I was thinking they should be top two. I was like man Flex was here that would be fucking great because I would fully expect and It's not even remotely far fetched to believe that What Derek did going from being a two 12 guy to being like two 35 I fully expect Flex Lewis to do he would have done exactly that at least Like he would have been in the two 30s as well. So you could you would have expected to see the same Persic think of the step-up Derek made scale wise on size and everything that would have been the case with Flex as well and he was beating Derek in the two 12 so You know does that put flex battling with Hottie for the win at that point like I would not find that far fetched at all But look at the pictures of like Lewis had his last Olympia just take the back double put it between Derek and Hottie Yes, with a long Completely longs like and and and that's at a low weight like he at two 12 he belongs between those guys in a call out So who knows? What about really really crazy Imagine if the top three were all guys from the two 12 they'd be wild So here's another question that I that makes me think of is Do they regret not letting Clarita do the open now? Hmm Because I still don't understand what the reasoning was behind that and I guess I never will because it's just fucking dumb Um But like what are you suggesting he couldn't have hung because one and two went to two 12 guys that were open I understand the difference but We've also been over a million times Then why didn't Clarita look small next to Regan when he beat him? Right, he dimensions change that like you just said Ron you put Flex up there When he was two 12 and he can stay with those guys when they were 235 So you know That that's the same case so I don't know I really hope that they change that because the fans want to see who is the best You know kind of brings back the idea which I if you don't told me this a year ago I would have laughed at you, but it does bring back the question Go back to the old days and say okay now the best two 12 go stand with the best open who wins the whole thing Yeah Right, that'd be crazy. No, I would see the two 12 conferences in up in at the end You know or at least at least the winner or maybe that's the new thing the winner of the two 12 since it's the night before Can do the open tomorrow If he wants to You know, I mean why not to see that me too I love to see I don't know I think you got to make it I feel like just the only in a bodybuilding doesn't do well in comparison That's especially invite that's the same Yeah, when you got it to wait until we get a sport exciting Right, I mean that makes it exciting and that's think about hockey and all I mean right I don't know how much you keep up it like they altered the game Because The world changed the athletes got bigger the ranks the same size the goalies equipment got bigger like okay What do we got to do to make the game? Better and I'm gonna use that with quotes. I don't think it's not so bad or now, but they've altered it If you could make the Olympic exciting where it's like holy now so and so is in the Olympic at a moral I mean it's like when you turn pro and you get to do the show the next day like sure you had a disadvantage I mean a you're the new kid on the block beat just competed yesterday, but no one says no to it Everyone's like fuck yeah, I'll see tomorrow like let's do it. Yeah, so I love to see it I'd love to see it and I think that flex Absolutely would have been in the top group right there And I have a I'm a big believer in betting on the jockey I Have a hard time to say flex those wouldn't win anything it does I mean if you're getting into real estate I'd like well, I think I want to be my agent because he's gonna be awesome Yeah, like Winners win Yep All right, there's that got one from Joe here. He says Question for the next show. I've always felt my joints fail Before my muscles do when pushing to failure. I've gotten a few Naging old sports injuries and little girl joints. I spent a long time pushing through joint pain Swapping exercises and messing around with volume and frequency in my missing something I'm only 30 years old Definitely not getting it's not definitely getting easier the older I get and he says thank you OG fan of the network and the show. Thank you Joe Huh well a couple things come to mind first of all he's only 30 So That's a little young for like you know nagging joint pain to be hindering you in a whole bunch of ways So he really you know should attack this problem um Like I don't know what he's doing like Does he just stretch a lot more and increases flexibility and you know take pressure off his tendons and legaments and You know open up his range is emotion and all that sort of stuff is it like a is it as easy? Is it something like that that he has to do or Like what sport did he play like does he have no card to lose left and anything like what was he doing? Yeah, I don't know what to say but the Like cabin joint pains have they gonna hold your back because I mean that's when your body stops firing muscles right if there's joint pain And less power gets sent to the muscles around the joint and you just so you'll lose strength and So you can't really train even trying to train through joint pain. That's why it's not smart because You know it's you're you're you're fighting your nervous system It's just I don't know what to say to the guy It's hard without seeing it's hard without seeing him train and because it's a blanket like I mean The way it's written every single joint in his body is an issue Yeah, which you know I'm not saying it's not possible so the the first question is is For me would be do you have that joint pain when the weight's lighter? Like are you ranging a point where You need to say to yourself okay. I can't go above x weight but I can still take that weight to a higher intensity You know or is it something as simple like something drives me crazy? I literally heard this in the gym yesterday kids doing Press towns with a straight bar and he was it hurts my wrist and I'm like Why are you doing that and he yeah? Yes like well because it hits the tricep different I'm like no, it does not That's absolutely wrong Different handle user user broke user whatever put your Rist in a comfortable spot and the elbow will bend and straighten that is a tricep movement is fine So yeah, that would be my argument here too like maybe he needs to get completely away from barbos Maybe the freedom of dumbbells will help because it's gonna allow your body to move in a more natural Place for you, you know Maybe machines are a good way to go maybe you know I love when I was having shoulder problems I really started getting into all the Machines that had cable options like a cable shoulder press a cable bench press Because I still got constant Resistance but my one arm my good move a little differently than the other yeah, so I could stay comfortable Just focus on the muscle and that's the last thing is Ask yourself if you're feeling the muscle that's intended. I feel like that's a big thing people miss When they're starting to get into progressive overload. They're just moving weight You know or even on a negatives, you know, I was just explaining the niki yesterday we're doing like real slow negatives on a On a Leg press and I said no make sure when you're going slow you're not just going slow Do you feel your quad being what's resisting the negative that matters? You know, so a lot a lot of questions to ask yourself when you're doing these movements and feeling that pain because Something has to be off more than just by joint's hurt Right, don't no matter what you did as your career before unless you were you know, I don't know doing Junkyard crashing cars. I don't imagine every joint your body is So Valid I know that like my shoulder will be out will be off and I'll get shoulder pain If my peck minor is too tight. Oh, yeah, yeah, and it's like Wonder if he's got any of that going on he could maybe what if he went to what if he went to like a really good Practitioner like a like a active release technician Fashio stretched therapist FTS that's what I've gone to and then I've learned that's where like I learned that from it's like oh So I've been dealing with all this trick and shoulder pain in that bicep tendon Because my packs are pulling me forward and it's been doing that for years You get that loose and up and then you figure out how to keep it loosened up yourself and guess what I don't get it But if it starts coming back then I know what I need to do to correct it. Yeah, you guys are right like at 30 He's way too young to be getting like immobilized. Yeah, you know Yeah, yep, kind of related I would call this one from Read Parker Related unrelated. I like this question I'm talking about training multiple questions in a row weird. We got a bunch more than aren't related So here we go I've done a good upset by that one I trained to mechanical failure every set form breaks down reps slow down immensely And don't happen at the or don't happen at the end of the set So it is true failure, but I feel like I don't train hard enough I don't have the training partner so I'm not doing forced reps But I do utilize drop sets rest-pause sets in every workout is the feeling of not doing enough Something you've ever experienced even though you're achieving muscular failure Yeah, that's I mean I think part of the battle in the gym I always wrestled with you know like what was the perfect amount of volume You know should I do another set? You know like maybe I should and and and You know there'd be periods of time where I'd be making good progress like seeing the log book go up All that sort of stuff so it's a little easier To end your workout Yeah, because if you did let's say you did six working sets last week And then this week you did six working sets and you got PRs on you like went up a rep on two of two of your sets Or whatever you're like oh, I'm not gonna change anything. I'll do the same amount of volume And then the next week you can come any you go up another rep on a couple things you're like oh, there's no But you know sometimes and you have a workout where none of your reps go up You know that happens and you think gosh, should I do some extra sets like there's always that little voice in the back of your head It's like you know do I do another set you know like it was always kind of a a tight rope I walked You know the train hard enough you know Could I have trained harder you know I guess I don't know that's see I guess there's a little bit of that overachiever on your efforts But it's also it's not a navy seal workout like Like you know people say oh, well You know body like I've heard people say bodybuilders don't train that hard and I'm like good well What they're doing is really hard but they're doing a certain task like they're taking Set's a mechanical failure to cause a muscle to grow But yeah They're sitting on a bench for three minutes between sets of leg press Which to someone who's maybe like a navy seal Where they're like oh swim five miles run 10 miles like that sort of they're like oh well that's harder and like yeah It's harder, but it's it's it's not the same thing like If the goal of a workout was just to kill you Then you would superset everything and Do 20 reps on everything and just drive yourself into the ground Is that was the goal that's not what makes a good bodybuilder so So just because you're not dead doesn't mean you would need to do more like We talk about training hard we talk about putting everything you got into it Not leaving reps on the table and all that but you know We're not literally on the ground unable to move every workout that's not that's not what training hard Is you know training hard you also you leave the gym with your bag in your hand and you walk to your car And you drive home like you're okay You know Like it's because you're not dead every time you it doesn't mean you didn't do enough I don't know I understand them and tally is what I'm saying yeah I think what you nailed was with the log book wrong like it does make it easier to and again I have to I always have to say this Don't just beat the number beat the number the same way so the reps need to be the same We tempo it's preserving all those things but assuming that's right it does make it easier To walk out and I always I always hated the word hard Like did you train hard? Because it's a loose subject. What the fuck does that mean? Whereas I did enjoy the fact that I could say That is the best set of squats I've ever had in my life Black and white yes that is the best I've ever done Walk away or it's the best in this blast or whatever it is and it does make it easier because to answer his question bluntly Basically wrote no you're doing everything you can go home You know Yeah, and then ask your foot Yeah, everything you wrote tells me you're nailing it, you know and and there are those days where you I'm sure we've all had those days where you feel extra smoked and you don't really know why it's the same workout And then there's other days feels like there's gas in the tank but You did everything it's time to go home, you know, so yeah, I do think that's the oak Richies or mentality but that's why the log book always helped me because like Ron said a million times I love a scoreboard in life because it's very blatant yeah Was this better than last time yes good go home? Was it worse yes Go home you still go home But you know, yeah, you locked in and it allows you to make sure you set up for because I think the one intangible is how people approach their workouts like I Used to Even use the word stress Leading into a workout Like holy shit last time I did the worst of the best I've ever done and I got to beat it I would think about it all day sure and then get to the gym and read it and then before the set like if it's a rest pause I'm like okay, I gotta get I got seven last of my first attempt. I need eight this time Then the next one I need this and then you don't I mean it was that much so by the time you were under the bar You were so locked in Whereas I think when you just go to the gym to train hard Maybe sometimes you're not quite as locked in them. You're not obsessing over that set right you know I know Juan has said he's racked the weight before and started thinking about next week. I gotta beat this Like just put it on the bar he's writing it down and thinking son of a seven days from now Yeah, I gotta beat this you know and I think that's what gets can be missing from working out hard Yeah, and also too like you know guys you train really sloppy with You know reform and stuff They can train those some of those guys are trained super gonna hard Because they're literally wrestling with weights that are too heavy for like All the movements are doing you know you see the guys with like the partial presses and you're using dumbbells that are way too heavy And it looks like it's really difficult To do right like they're handling the dumbbells that are too heavy they're kind of rickety They're doing the half reps and then they're on the peck deck do and like half reps The whole stack and their effort is off the chain and they're they're actually like training really hard But it's like so much misguided effort that's inefficient, you know, so you have all this like wasted energy That isn't actually gonna get them results and they might get like like we've seen some guys get results for like A crazy amount of time doing that sort of stuff But most people don't most people just start to get like so our elbows and you know Most mortal people just start to develop problems, you know what I mean, but but they're training really hard So yeah, Dusty's right hard isn't everything. There's more to it, you know But logbook and helps. That's how you find out All right What are some tips or supplements you've used when you're sick to get back in the gym quicker? I got a bunch for this one You got my my so my first is is simple which is Get better. Yeah, I see that that's the weirdest thing to me is this rush to get back to gym if you get to the gym early Your body's not there to train. It's still trying to get better like it is a enormous mistake To make your obsession how fast can I get back to the gym like I literally even in my Best point of body really almost is a word prime, but my level of the really wasn't a prime. Oh calm But when you you're at your very most focused point like I would still say to myself Okay, even if I can't eat my food. I'm gonna get food down Whatever it can be like literally my obsession switched from body to getting better That's my biggest answer like I literally just focused on getting better and even if it meant I Whatever some magical bullshit soup three times a day fine Because as long as the day I was better I woke up and felt good I was ready to get back to work ready to get back to eating and that's the best way to go I I feel like and I know Ron is pressed on this many times even on his Q and A's on his page like There's this fear of like missing the gym for a couple days like it's all gonna melt away Like just get better you'll be fine if you're gone for five fucking days. I mean I just did it You know I took five days off leading the Olympian purpose to just take a break Then it was sick for seven more so I ended up being gone almost two weeks and Nice stepped on the scale that morning to see how light I was and I was 286 I was 285 when I left the Olympia my It's fine right and I went to the gym train. I was just as strong as I was two weeks ago like nice So my answer to all the secret supplement is relax your sick get better Yeah, go up I am not a fan Well, I want to say they do nothing But just got a fan of yeah, I'm not a fan of the guys that like Like I'm just I They don't give their immune systems and I've credit like You're like oh go on the vagus I'm gonna go get my vitamin drip. I'm not like always into that stuff. Yeah. I mean you know what I mean? Like I'm gonna fortify myself before the trip. I'm like You got a good immune system where you don't like a little late to like it's not like doing that once I could see long term right right right right like it's it's the it's the We're cleaning it that's not how it works. Yeah, that's how it works like I I bet if you did one every week Like I don't know what the studies are but if you do in every week Do you have a better immune system? All I'm saying is I'm not sure that one time Like doing it the one time is enough to like fortify, you know I just think it works that way is anybody out there have any science on it If the classes that wrong or not? Yeah, well you do build your immune system with certain vitamins and they've proven yes You know with you know the with the That's been going around the last couple of years. It's called us to all that stuff and Well vitamin D was one of those wasn't that vitamin D is a big one Yeah, yeah, and I take it every day for years and you know what? I think that bodybuilders should get their vitamin D levels checked. I had low vitamin D After I competed for like remember we were talking about what was the longest time you ran trend That was a long season. I dieted for like like from February through November and so I'd been running gear on an Offer really long time and after that I had like a lot of fatigue and I couldn't figure it out eventually I figured out it was my vitamin D that was you know gear will reduce your vitamin D levels and so A lot of us even if we're taking like 5,000 units it might not be enough so for me I need 10,000 to get like a decent level But having just caught it again like that was one of my big fears too. I was like I had such a bad experience two years ago It screwed me up. I still can't breathe right what if I were to catch it again so low and behold I catch it again In this time now we have so much science so much understanding about it I mega-dosed the D now. I'm not gonna suggest that anybody does this But this this is not just me making it up 100,000 units for three days straight like that's a lot of vitamin D You know, yeah plus well-funded NAC and AC is really NAC is so good at helping our immune systems with this In such a great antioxidant that the government wants to turn it into a drug They want to reclassify it and they're fighting to be that right now. It works too good It does and we're too healthy. Yeah, if anyone's confused on how mad they want us weak listening to this conversation Yeah, it's really good and it's and yeah, and they'll they'll guys it all and oh well It's so powerful we need to protect you from reckless use of it. Yeah, exactly Because there's been so many NAC overdoses right so they've heard them all over the news another kid bites the dust I'm gonna fuck so now so now is there anything is there anything like in those drips or anything We're just the one good hit is enough to actually make your immune system better I bet you this and you were to get sick and you were to hammer him I don't know what's in a drip, you know, it would probably have to be a specific cocktail But if you can bulls it does a whole bunch yeah if you can bulls it does the right things I mean that could be beneficial you know, but it's the drink Yeah, I would do it was called a Myers cocktail. Oh, yeah, yeah, and then and then three In terms of magnesium all at once they would bulls through you when you literally feel you're buying a pool Yeah, and like it was It's funny because as usual some explain it to me so I would just do it when I started to feel really smoked during crap. Yeah, like you know And you just feel tired the whole time not sick or you just You'd wake up you just you go do that so like how many in a prep like would you do it 10 times in a prep or five times oh No two Oh, okay, okay. Yeah, like just when you were like gas you hit that thing and man all sudden for weeks you were back on fire again So I don't know if it would have the same effect For like sickness, but it was drastic where you're like holy shit like so you wake up I might have access I might have access to get some drips done Yeah, for like very very low cost is there anything you guys would recommend like I know there's like gluteo thio and all those other drips Is there anything you'd recommend like what's a good one? I think it depends on what your needs are you know I mean like if you were to say you have you know an issue that gluteo thio would be beneficial But you know NADploss is another real good one, but it like if you needed it, you know Right right Okay, this is a look at my morning supplements for the last with this this was flared like the three Three days here I'm bringing it in right now This is my morning reading is yeah, that was that was like for three days. This is what I took every morning Along with you know the over-the-counter stuff to the left amino asylum use our code think I their BPC 157 for inflammation with the bug is super beneficial so I ran that I Found that cardering All right, excuse me, um, Alcarnitine was Super helpful in my recovery from brain fog so I figured while I better keep running it while I catch this thing again And then I felt the same way about cardering cardering really it helped a lot with the brain fog and energy and And just I think there was like some issues with like mitochondrial function and that's what screwed up my lungs And things that improve that Alcarnitine You pick one all at a high dose like 400 milligrams a day in cardering have all helped me to be able to breathe better And then all the over-the-counter stuff too like high dose vitamin C three times a day official oil The vitamin D but anyway it it bounced me back real fast like I was concerned But I think I still have some like natural immunity and I wouldn't say that it'd bread you Everybody should go out and do that but if somebody were suffering along with the other thing I did was Uh, they found a lot of science with nasal lenses Because the yeah, you know the nasal lenses. I mean what's huge. Yeah, yeah Yeah, I'm wondering if like for nasal infections and stuff if people shouldn't be doing that more often just to get the bacteria and all that out, you know There I saw one guy. I think he was on Rogan and he was talking about how if we would have used Like disinfectant nasal sprays. Yeah, yeah, and And and and also throat rinses. Yep, you know like disinfectant nasal sprays and throat rinses That's actually would have been a massive prophylactic barrier for the spread so I was using A gargle with with an antiseptic succines a day and then an antiseptic using like a saline solution nasal runs twice a day and it just You know flush all that crap out of there. So You know anyway that was that was what works for me. Okay this time around But I agree with you. I'll be a legal amount of a matter of weeks now. Yes, nasal lenses I mean now illegal you need a doctorist prescription protecting you from not Spending the money so they can make millions. Okay got it overrated underrated G and R as a band The total history and then he also adds in slash as a guitarist and an influencer on guitarists all over the planet I think you might be a fan I also think that wrong the only one equipped to fully answer this because I just have an opinion that's Not valid Yeah, I I mean I don't I know he sort of included the total history and brackets there Because that would like include you know Getting into this spaghetti incident album and the Chinese democracy album which actually did by himself with all of the other members right you Remember and like all that stuff was that good so Now okay, wasn't I mean it was just wasn't guns and roses you know what I mean it's just axle There was no one else there you know, so and you know they wrote music as a band it wasn't like axle was fucking the genius behind it all You know what I mean so so So yeah, but I mean I just ignore that stuff the only stuff I listen to is like the first You know appetite the user illusions and then the lies album they put out that's that's that's the collection You know that's the definitive guns and roses collection and I would say there there are now a days are underrated I mean there's a lot of people that have never really heard anything other than sweet child a mine and welcome to the jungle in November rain, but there's like an enormous collection of Really fucking great stuff One of my favorite things about guns and roses is there early days there's some live recordings now from the early days like before appetite came out like 86 87 because you know they do the 25th anniversary release the lux edition and they they pin a bunch of like Rare live stuff onto the end so you can go on like Apple music non Spotify and you can listen to that sort of shit and and I just love them back then because they were like a really Important really important band because hair metal was really dominating like poison and you know The death leopard and like sort of let's call it nice hair metal Do you know to mean You know what I mean? Nice Like like you know really really done up nicely sound super clean on the records real You know production value through the roof, you know everyone look good and then guns and roses just like they came out of like Hollywood strip like Thrash Hard rock sort of punk rock scene, you know Duff McCagans a punk rock base player. He just he's a punk punk that joined a rock band So they had like all this punk influence and You know and slash had so many amazing influences from Hendrix to you know the Ramones to all that stuff So they're like a punk rock Thrash Band that was kind of like Swaggering hard rock Hollywood band also like motley crew and and so they they really stood out back then like they were like the ass kick and like Loona ticks right guns and roses were like the people that were gonna you know do all your drugs and For your girlfriend and leave her house destroyed You know and and that was the that was the band and that's what they were back then in the 80s and like I love love that era of GnR This is why we didn't answer yeah, wrong yeah, because we don't have to There's a great dog in your favorite line at the very end where you go, but I don't really know much about them Yeah But I've watched the slash documentary there was one I can't remember if it's on Netflix or Like Amazon but there's one it's just called slash and It's just to own him and it's great. It's really good because like Lot of people don't realize where he came from he grew up in Hollywood his parents were in the music industry so he grew up around musicians his whole life and he was in the music industry So you know slash grew up like around that that's no surprise that it became a rock star So awesome Right the BMX I just like when when somebody asked a question that I want the answer to because then I just get to enjoy the answer There's footage of slash on a BMX bike too. There's footage of a Oh, yeah, there is there's old tour footage where he's on a BMX bike Ripping around the parking lot of the tour bus like having fun on somebody's BMX You know what I thought I remember to that and I was like oh yeah, I remember seeing that and then I was like no I just remember Ron telling me that once before some time ago And it's like this is like in the BMX In the documentary yeah and in the documentary he talks about like just Ryan is bike around Hollywood with his friends like they lived on their bikes It's pretty cool One last one because that's all we have time for it could be a huge one, but I'm sure we can Figure out how to make this work time accordingly Dave says okay guys Here goes for each of you individually What was the best thing funniest and worst thing that happened to each of you in 2022 Great podcast guys thanks and This question is meant for you for next year 2023 So he was sent that a couple days oh got you yeah Okay These are hard Yeah, like see best thing is difficult and I hate this Yeah, my answer is is gonna sound like a cop out, but it's actually real the best thing that happened to me I shouldn't say that happened in 2022, but I really realized was um The realization of Things that are happening in the moment now like I'm very very aware of great moments. They're tiny that people miss every single day Like just silly things that I'm like I will remember this in 10 years this moment right here And I think people miss that stuff because when they're thinking of best things like for example, you know An easy answer for someone in my shoes would be like oh I bought a new house or got my mom's house or those things are like seeing like the ones But it's not it's like you know I have those I've had many many of those moments especially with me this year where like I walk out of a situation and I'm like That was awesome. Yeah, that little dinner right there was awesome or whatever it is you know what I mean So so that's my best thing is just noticing that stuff now because it happens all the time and I Spent 40 years missing all of it. Yeah, so that's the best. What do you guys got for that portion? I I actually really Get that answer dusty because I can't imagine like when you say what's the best moment? Well, you know I had a lot of great moments like Like hanging out with you and Dubai Is like fucking so fun or See in Dino in England this year going to the guitar store with them that one day and like like that was Can awesome like just super amazing stuff that I got to do or going to Toronto with Braden to compete at his first Nationals and like getting that feeling like because I felt like I did a show right like Yeah got the Airbnb put the tan on You know getting up and looking at them all through the night like it was you know back to business It was like you know exactly what I love about bodybuilding, you know going to a show with one guy You know kicking some ass, you know that sort of thing So like that was awesome But then we had the five-year anniversary at the gym and all the appreciation that goes with that and then we had You know going to Dallas with my business partner I did it there. I helped him for Dallas show a Awesome you know what I mean like going down to the Dallas pro and There's just too many things going to Jamie's gym earlier this year hangin out and Vegas with the mutant team Yeah, there's just too many things and and and I'm grateful for all of those things and they all just like stand out to me like Dozens and dozens of things when I think of like the best moment I can't imagine picking one of them like oh yeah, there's so many great little things and and and also too like when I say When I say like Hangin I would Dino in England It's not the being in England apart it was like me and Dino hanging out at a guitar store for three hours and playing the drums For sure bases and bound like that's the best stuff Yeah, like sure Yeah, my answer is exactly like exactly the same as as yours both of yours that like I mean I did have one really big one and that is the Victorian I got married Yeah, you get the little you get to puncture It was you were one though, you know it was more than that though, you know like that was a really cool thing But just all of it, you know just like there are so many cool things and you know what I Had put that episode out about dopamine and And this ties in so much that dopamine is with that one where we're thinking about the future and thinking about Trying to achieve something and I mentioned you in the conversation dusty I said I know this guy who was he's a very successful bodybuilder and he had this terrible accident and he almost died And in now when he talks about training His his perspective is that he just loves being able to do it and being able to get in the gym makes him happy And what it is is that when you can focus on the here and now and you can appreciate the moment You're no longer accessing those dopamine things that make you want to try to get more and get more You're accessing serotonin and a bunch of other brain chemicals that create happiness and Contentment just for being in the moment and that's what I think you're getting now the the brain shift You've had you're getting that out of the gym or you know I got to get that not only at the wedding, but like hanging out at the Olympia and getting to meet all the listeners and seeing you guys Interact with everybody or I mean I got like I got the opportunity to go to England this year and meet a guy I have podcasted with for like five years, but never met in my life, you know and hang out with him I consider one of my best friends and just so many cool things that I've I've gotten to do this year That make me feel like it was a really cool year overall so I can't pick one either But if I did I think what people should do in case you listen You do like me. Yeah, if you guys if you guys do like me and you take a lot of We take pictures of a lot of stuff like you know just at at Dubai and doing stuff So whenever one was doing like their year and review I Went back and I started to do that and I didn't do it because there was too much like I literally couldn't do a post But it also made me realize like holy Like we saw like five shows this year we did Three vacation like the amount of things bought houses bought more like the things that happened I was like How was that all in a year yeah and I think that you know My advice anyone listening now is is if you can instead of having that that big thing for your year this year If you can make sure for example I remember realizing when Ron and I were at the Arnold and Jamie came up I was like This is one of us like this is it's is one of us and he's been here for an hour and that we meet people all the time and cool people But they're not So not gonna be with us you know what I mean? I remembered that moment. I was like This guy is one of us and now you spend time with him and now his wife and I'm like I don't know these people are with us now. You know what I mean? Yeah, I feel like a lot of that stuff gets missed by people when they're thinking about I bought a new house this year. I'm like Glad I bought a house so I'm gonna be wrong, but I'm pretty sure the relationships that I built this year are worth more than the house I bought and that's right something that a lot of people miss when they're living in their apartment Do you know the name? I like yeah that stuff's all there for you too. You know I also like to Like you know there's certain ways that you think of yourself and you have to Be in somewhat in control of how you think of yourself You know like you know some people have a negative about look on themselves or whatever They look at them some reblained themselves for stuff But I mean I've you know I've watched enough and read enough you know between the people I follow and you know the old the old you know Video of Jordan Peters and tell me to clean my room comes through my feed and and and and you just get all these influences It's sort of make you think a certain way and um one of the the things I like to think of is is What version of me is? The version of me that's leaving 2022 How is it better than the version that came into 2022? Like you know don't think necessarily about you know what you have or what you did or you know Is the version of you better you know like do you have new skills do you have new ways of looking at things like do you view things? You know or are you better at handling stress or you better at being appreciative are you like all those things like you know what I mean Yeah, and so you know one of the things about about this past year is I'm like actually like I'm pretty happy I think the version that's Starting this year is better than the other version of me, you know I mean there's some obvious stuff like I'm a better guitar player Like I'm a much better guitar player now than I was four months ago like since I really delve back in like a really Picked up like a bunch of stuff. I don't know if I'm as good as I used to be in some ways I might be better but it's coming you know I'm a better on my bike you know there's a trick the kind like two tricks this year That I didn't have last year, so I learned a couple new tricks. Yeah, you know, so and and then and then you know Also dealing with business stress and taking the emotion out of decisions That's been something that I worked on this year whenever a business decision comes up like what are we gonna do with this piece of equipment Right the old me might have been emotionally attached to that piece But the new me it's like I can get rid of it see what people think bring another piece in see if they like it like just because I like that piece Doesn't mean it stays because no one else might use it like it might be better spot so they that's just an example Yeah, trying to be emotionally more intelligent with like business decisions and all that sort of stuff and just being aware You know also relationships stuff, you know like you know when Being more cognizant of of when maybe when Emily's having a hard day and being more able to pick up on that She's having a hard day, so you could be more of a contributor to like turning it around You know what I mean just all that all those little things and those are these little things that I've like Throughout the year I tried to work on you know I don't know if that's fucking nonsense to some people, but I like to think that way, you know when coming out of your year Because that's like you know if someone strips away all your money or you'll lose this or you lose that You still have your tools like what are you like you know what makes you want How you you know your decision making your skills, you know everything So it's try to improve the version of you this year so that next year you're you know Elevated and you improve again and then you improve again You know like like I was sick like the character in a video game, you know your building I'm your taller instist bulls in your ability Your patience for You know you're you're trying to you know improve your scores on all those things I haven't figured out the rush hour part yet Yeah, yeah I still suck at that very much this My answer is just don't leave the house between three and six o'clock you either get to where you're going or you wait I know I agree with you on that Okay, where are we is that it that's it so that's it doggy basis oh Round just got the rail headphone It happens I got squirmy dog issues There we go All right, I think that's thing on my lap Well the whole time amazing Yeah fucking 150 degrees melty my lap You're about okay, I didn't hear word that you guys said are we done is that an episode? Did we wrap good? Yes, that we're done. Yes, so that was one of those episodes where I don't remember it I don't know what we talked about It's all right. I mean it was good. Yeah Think we're fine. Yeah Good with the times Okay, it's funny because sometimes we do that and then that's the episode people message about oh, I'm man I really appreciate it that thing that you guys talked about oh my god. I don't remember that episode at all Okay, remember like share subscribe comment and ring the bell Come with questions Any questions for the next show YouTube questions get preferential Treatment we didn't even do question blocks on Instagram this week because we knew we had a lot of YouTube So scots on the case but ask one again you'll get asked next week Thanks everybody remember I am mutant dot com user code bigron 20 or dusty 20 and Remember the big buddy building patreon To help keep all the faint big network channels Growing and flowing and all that stuff yeah, thanks everybody. Thank you everybody. Thank you everybody Who's helping to support the show you guys are doing a great job and I really appreciate it and everybody with the comments too And we're almost at 21,000 we will probably be there by the time the show comes out run Yes, and yeah, we definitely appreciate you guys are all your support this this past year has been crazy And keep coming up to us and bugging us and telling us you watch a show You know it's always good. I had another I had a younger kid that I hadn't met yet He stopped me in the gym the other day and I could tell he wanted to talk to me so it's like my head phone out and he's like I watched a podcast I was like oh okay, hey, you know, so I like that make sure you come up and say something Okay, everybody happy new year Let's get better at something whether it's Putting effort into your diet or being a Tolerable person to be around right dusty I'm doing my best Okay Remember everybody it's just bodybuilding

In we had a kind of a question slash topic that came up on the previous episode. So we were talking about, we were talking about my calf growth. And we discussed that a lot of that was just from walking in the way that I walked as a kid. And Trevor had said, this is why I don't believe in junk volume. You are potentially creating more nuclei in the muscle. And a mother example using scots calves. You could say he did junk volume every day just by walking. You see young guys who train chest every day because they don't know better. In 99% of the time they have great chests. I thought, you know it's not a question, but I thought, yeah, you know it's an interesting observation that he's making. I thought I'd bring it to you and just to hear what your thoughts were on this. Because I think that in a way he kind of has some points in there, you know. Yeah, and this relates to the term I used when we think when we're digging into this was loading history, which I'm about weak muscle groups. Yeah, yeah. And that refers to just like whatever the muscle has been encountering in terms of its loading, the pattern of loading, the extent of loading, the amount of tension that's produced relative to a maximal tension, the time under that tension, sort of the loading, the on and off cycles, that the muscle's experiencing. So that's why people say you've got to train your calves differently. Because they have it in the body or in the scientific vernacular, different loading history. So what you experience in your calves the way you walk, we sort of we go into this. Like you tend to like really you're up on your chippy toes. So you're loading history is different than the average person in terms of your calves. And it has been probably since you've been a kid. Yeah. So that may be at least part of why your calves develop that much. And maybe maybe they're going to be big no matter what. But they're definitely and maybe there's you know, a little bit of interplay between both things. Like you had the tendency to have big calves and that led to your gate pattern where you're on your chippy toes. Which is like to more putting the calves, the calves just crunched after. So there's in that case we're talking about probably a developmental process that occurred during the course of hundreds of thousands of steps as you were growing as a kid. And that's totally different than someone who's done 12 sets of intentional weight training every moment. For or even that before we go into like that, the bench press every day. You know, and they do is instead they do 18 sets and that's too much. But that's in an upper in their chest let's say we'll just keep it to chest or the safe comparison. Sure. They didn't get anything outside of those extra success, except for increased muscle protein breakdown. I see. Yeah. Because that would be the junk fun. But the chest isn't being used anywhere. Let's say walk on their hands, you know, or let's say let's say did my rebound training where I was doing, you know, pushups every time I go in and out of the bar, whatever. They're not loading their chest anywhere like you load your calves when you're walking around them all the time. And dude, I remember specifically like I was in basketball in eighth grade and I played soccer all through like my junior high years and before that. And I remember just like because I would when I run when I sprint I go to my toes and, you know, you get so much spring and I was faster than a lot of kids. Like even since like early elementary school, we do like track stuff and I had the 50 yard dash. I beat everybody. And I just remember though, like things like soccer, my calves just like, trick and burning. But you know, I just learned to keep pushing, you know, and keep running. So yeah, there was probably some add-daptation happening back then. And it was just like, and then of course, yeah, the rest of the day I still had to walk, right? So you're still using it. When you see for instance sprint cyclists and even some endurance cyclists that have really big. What do you do? Yeah, crazy. A lot of some of those cyclists. Some of them live too. Like there's like there was one one cyclist who actually in the guy's just his quads. I mean, he can do this because his quads are so big, but he's also trained for his quads are just ridiculous. Yeah. So in the context of trying to use like a very relatively infrequent or call it kind of a basic type of loading regime or creating that sort of loading history by lifting weights where you spend less than five minutes of time under tension. Twice a week, let's say, or something like that. That's completely different than what you're talking about when you're running. And literally you've got active energy demand for hours on end as kid running around and running for the neighborhood and jumping and just being doing kids stuff. So there can be junk vying. You know, in terms of high volume training because people can just get so sore that you literally incur so much muscle protein breakdown. And this goes back to the studies that have been done in this regard where they measure muscle protein breakdown at the beginning. And I just just talked about the German on the clock. As we talked about it in podcast 101, I think maybe 102. The one on training that that three part series you did. Where you measure muscle protein synthesis right at the beginning of a novel training program and then watch to see how much people grow and you would think, well, the more protein synthesis they have, the more they're going to grow. Yeah. But it doesn't happen that way. And the thing that's different that versus session than what's different later on in the training regime is that you can get massively sore. You've got you you you you you you you you you you have a lot of muscle so much you have a lot of muscle breakdown you have a lot of inflammation. So that muscle protein synthesis can be counterbalanced or overwhelmed by the extent of muscle protein breakdown you have. So that how much you get there doesn't really determine what's going to happen in the long run because that's a different scenario when you've got that much muscle protein breakdown and that much muscle soreness, that much inflammation. But in this study where they finally kind of cut on what might have gone on here. They measure three weeks in. So now you've got a protective effect working working for you. You not a sore. Then when they measure muscle protein synthesis three weeks and then they measure it actually at the end like the last training session. The correlations went from zero at the first day to like 0.85 to over 0.9. Yeah. Really really strong correlations. So then the people that have the best acute response to the that particular about that they that they constructed in that study are the ones that grow the best. The more proteins this you have, you accumulate that over time by training, eating correctly of the else, then that leads to the muscle growth that you want. But if you train in a way where you've got junk volume, excess volume that just occurs more muscle damage, then you've got more damage that needs to be repaired. We've got more and more breakdown as well. So now you've got more muscle breakdown which takes away from the balance between synthesis and breakdown. You've got to have more synthesis than breakdown if you want to have growth. You want to accumulate the protein. So you've got more breakdown which works against you. And now the synthesis that you have produced needs to go to repair all the extra breakdown that you've created. So you shot yourself in both feet. Basically, you've made your your protein synthesis less available for the growth processes and you've put yourself into a hole by creating more more breakdown with the coolant of the junk volume. So that's a totally different scenario than someone like you where you've got this compensatory overload type of situation. So it's like with the rats where you take out the solace or the gas drop and almost walk around and eventually, I mean, they're probably sore shit. They don't do a visual analog. How sore are you, Mr. Rat? I know that shit doesn't feel good. You can't. And you see massive muscle growth there. And that accumulates over time from a continuous chronic adaptation. And you know, not everyone has this is the kind of interesting thing that you got massive muscle growth out of that. Some people do you see obese people that have actually more of a kind of a phasic type of activity because they don't like to walk around very much because they've got a lot of body weight to move around. So they're not really very active. Yeah. But you also see very functional powerful cab muscles in a lot of sprinters. They don't have very big calves. True. You don't see many sprinters don't. It's better for sprinting over all to be one of the least best in the world to have really long until he's 10 in because you got to spring there for a stretch shortening cycle. So you've got you run it on springs basically. Check out this check out this variation. So when we were talking about cyclists, I did a Google search. Look at the variation in these three guys. We can assume that they're probably all doing similar stuff. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The guy in the right is when I've seen, but they all have big those are all big quads really. They are. But comparatively that guy in the left doesn't have legs that you'd be like, oh my god, those look like bodybuilder. I mean, maybe people would. I mean, his legs are in great shape. Yeah. But compare that to the guy and especially the far right, you know, yeah. Should have their monsters. Yeah. That was a literally bodybuilder's legs. Yeah. But why why is it that the guy in the left didn't achieve that? You know what I mean? Well, that's what was about to say is that that's what I figured. You know, a lot of weight training. Okay. Yeah. Some of them, they say, okay, I do this and I can as long as you're using that muscle in your given sport. So using it specifically, you're not going to have an issue with being muscle bound to what happened. If you can, and this is where genetics are going to play role. But if you, if you're someone who has the inclination to grow larger muscle cells, yeah, or maybe even have a hyperplastic adaptation, we get more muscle cells. If we talked about last time, yeah, which is a nice clip that you sent me that I just put up on Instagram last time. It was awesome. Those people, that's that they may, they may be very good at their sport. And with those sprinters, is that would you have put cyclists? Cyclists. Just cyclists. So didn't say what their, what their sport was. That was, that was there early. Yeah. So I'm type of cyclist. So it was from an article about cycling and growing your legs. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Because that kind of matters whether they're endurance cyclists. You look at just look at the physics of sprinters, running sprinters, not sprint cyclists, and endurance athletes. And you see up the totally different phenotype. Yeah. That's better adapted. Less, obviously a lot more muscle on the sprinters. Check out this guy. This is a sprinter. It was kind of came in small there. Do you get some legs on him? Yeah. He's got an upper body on him too. He obviously trains. Yeah. Yeah. And he's probably got great genetics for the thing. I mean, I was, this popped in my head the other day. There's a body go to his now passed on. His name was Justin Rice. Okay. From New Zealand. People can look him up. He was like a, um, he was big kiwi on professional muscle. Oh, okay. Yeah. I remember him. So I, I, I, I, I, I knew him before he even like got blown on on that site. We interacted some. Super nice dude. But a friggin maniac. Yeah. And he, yeah, he'll got used to train like he's like 12 meals a day. He was as big as Ronnie. Holy, literally. We picture. He's the same size as Ronnie. Like about the same height and the same size. Yeah, Ronnie shape. Yeah. But he used to do four or five pound behind the neck breasts. Good. Good. That's a 10. Something like that. He's just used a beast. Yeah. I think he had, he had some sort of muscular skeletal disorder. They eventually took him out. I love his Parkinson's or something. I remember. But he was a sprinter for New Zealand. I think just, I like whatever. I'm New Zealand's not obviously the biggest country in the world. But he was like one of their best printers. He was like there, like there is Olympic level sprinter for his country. Probably without doing much because he had great genetics. So you've got a lot of fast, fast fibers. Fast fibers tend to be have a better ability to grow. Studies generally suggest that at least in the short term. So there's something there. Mm-hmm. A lot of the biggest guys are also the strongest guys. Mm-hmm. Which fibers may have a little bit of a slight advantage in terms of the amount of force for cross sectional area they can produce. It's called specific tension. So you know, a fast and slow twitch fiber, the same size. The fast twitch fiber. Even at slow speeds and probably could just maybe a little bit more force. It's not all now the study say this, but generally makes sense in terms of the energy turnover. Anyway, so he heard his knee. This is how he got into weight training. He heard his knee and he's like, oh, so I got to do some rehab now. So he was in there doing like quad sets. I don't know what it was if he had been in this case or an ACL tonight. And so he's in the gym. He's like, I just got to do something with his energy. Got a lot of energy. So he started lifting. Yeah. Without, like, he even haven't any program or doing anything. It's just like, I got a lift and he got to recover. He gained 50 pounds in the first six months. Oh, I was so many of it. I hate guys like that. Absolutely. He was like, yeah, I'm like the world level. Like a lot of these guys are using gear. So I should use some gear. So he threw some gear in the max. He gained another 50 pounds in the next six months. And then he couldn't get on his bike anymore. Well, he was a running spreader. Oh, it's in his life. I got you. I got you. I got you. I just wanted to be a dash. Yeah. I believe. So again, 100 pounds in his first year. 50 natural. That's crazy, man. That's what he genetics. Yeah. That's cool. Yeah, 100 pounds, you know. I managed to maybe do that over from one 60 high school to 260. But my beef, 20 years, you know. So that's cool. You mentioned to the idea of like, if you still continue working in your sport that you're not going to get muscle bound, you know, who I think of is our mutual friend Big Dave Smith. And look at how agile he is for being like, we could call him a legit monster. You know what I mean? Like if you, you know, he's solid dude. He's 260. I'm guessing something like that. Yeah, he can do, you know, back flips if you wanted to. Or, you know, twist up like a pretzel. And I have to think that if he didn't do Brazilian juditsu, like none of that would be a factor in his life right now, you know. Oh, yeah. Lot of flexibility. I mean, there are some things like the Jordan Peters speaking of he's doing, I think you last time I talked to him, he was doing some BJJs and that kind of stuff. Okay. And they're just like, you just got so much size. There's just certain things you can't do, like, you know, if you go like this, your chest just gets in the way you can't reach around. Great. So it's like, let me go back to that question too. He's the term up the guys who bench press every day. Yeah, yeah. And I know someone personally, a guy I went to grad school with, his name, Brian Gibson. He's at, he's in Texas at Rice University actually now. Okay. I think he maybe was the department at one point, but he was a power lifter in Texas, UT Austin, Jan and Terry Todd. I'm sorry. I'm just going to show him. I figured he might when he started saying Texas. Yeah. Yeah. He got like third in the collegiate nationals a couple times in powerlifting. And total meat had love that guy. It was just like so much. I got to be in his lab. It was great. That's cool. And he bench pressed every day. It went down to his basement like when his kid, he started bench pressing like when he's nine or something like that. Okay. And every day, he benched because he didn't know any better. He bench pressed. Yeah. And he gradually got stronger and stronger and stronger. And eventually he told me the day that he benched press three, 15. He just broke down a cry for like an hour. Wow. That's been a goal. You know, like five years is something to get. Yeah. But the thing that the guys that do that who are that focused, this is I'm just I'm making, I'm kind of bumping them all into a box. But I think this mentality of probably explained that phenomenon pretty well is they're bench pressing every day or they're training chess because they want a big freaking chest and they're also trying to get stronger. And you're again, or get more reps. So I'm just going in there and it's almost going to be the same thing. Like, you know, like the person who's reading the newspaper while they're doing the extensions. Like, I've seen that before in a gym. So they're actually, they're actually wanting to become more impressive in those things. So they're in essence auto regulating themselves based on their own recover abilities. So that they can't go and get stronger over time. Yeah. Someone like that, you know, they don't do that so long. If they eventually find like they don't get any better at bench pressing or their exercises, they probably change something. Yeah. So while they're doing that and they're getting really good chest, they're also auto regulating tool to make sure that they've got appropriate adaptation given how well they can adapt. There are people who do like, um, uh, oh, this is named hurtful walker. You heard of that guy? The name brings a bell. He, I think he, I think he went, he went from high school directly into the NFL. Okay. He was a fucking badass. Yeah. I had a lot of bad. I hadn't heard of him. It's like a name I hadn't heard in a long time. But now now I'm starting to come back. Yeah. I'm going to be a virtual with, from one I understand, hertals only wait training every day to get up and do 100 pushups and do 100 sit ups. Okay. Let me see. 100,000. Oh, okay. Wow. I don't know if that went being in the day and he was built like a brick shit house. Yeah. And I mean, 1000 every day, he adapted to it, you know, eventually the most candidate after some degree. And some people will grow and some people won't. And the those who don't don't keep doing it. So it's not like you've got, like if you're looking at an average, just sample everyone's that okay, every we're going to train bench press every single day. Yeah. We know that muscle son is all over the place in terms of variability. Yeah. That would be something. If you do that, they could do like six hard sets every day, what have you and keep up with that and make progress. And other people would just grind to a halt and then they'll be trained and maybe they hurt themselves. That's a great point. So those people would never, you never see them out there. So for them, it wasn't junk volume. Yeah. The proofs and the fact that they're doing it. If it was junk volume, they would eventually grind themselves into a hole. And they would stop doing that and you wouldn't see them doing anymore. So that's why, you know, science. Not because people on the internet told him it was junk volume and he should stop. But because he would figure it out because it would just not work. Yeah. Right. And the other man, Kudos to those guys because if they found like you can't, you can't bench press every day like you never recover. Yeah. Well, I'm doing and I'm getting stronger and I'm benching play 65. What are you doing? Yeah. Okay. So for some people it will work. That's the thing. People can do like a lot of pros do the pro split. They train really high volume, you know? And they like Ronnie Coleman is stringent example like training like a monster, everything twice a week. You know what? You know what? And this to me, I see recently a lot of the older guys in body building kind of have had this, this attitude to award the younger guys saying like like they're not training hard enough that they're too scared of over training. I think that's the reason what you're saying here is like you know see what your body's capable of. If you can handle it then it's going to be to your benefit almost. We are going to cut ourselves short. If we are too afraid to push those limits, that's for sure. And if it doesn't work out, you'll also you'll figure that out too, right? You know, I just don't much to encourage me. I can imagine just like with the sort of environment we have online now. But if if if if if he hadn't existed as this example and you can like someone says like they send like a YouTube personality, you can just imagine just think of genera, I'm thinking of what's right. Whoever's got a million followers. Yeah. Yeah. And evaluate my program and they send they send Dory and Yates program. Yeah. With relatively low volume. Yeah. And they're like like so that's all you're doing for back, you know, is this pull downs and you know, that those kind of the Ben overroads, should have dead lists is like you're not doing nearly enough sets to you're never going to get big that way. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Next week they see who it is without knowing that that's a viable possibility. Yeah. Or the opposite. How about we look at like an Arnold program where each trained twice a day and was in the gym for hours and hours. And if you're just a just generically send that program in to be evaluated, you'd probably be like, oh man. This is this guy's doing way too much. So yeah. And then the thing with Arnold that I always kind of suspect because those guys came totally off. I think most of them. Okay. There's a Arnold like there's like a video of him who's doing advertisement for like some like South American vacation package. I remember that. And he just like it was really some. Yeah. Like in the 170s or you know, under 200. Yeah. Yeah. And so I want to think those guys did and this is this is why and like in like linear periodization like the Mott V. of Russian model, you have a hypertrophy phase. Yeah. Strengthen a power phase is he's lost a lot of muscle mass. And then those guys would they weren't and they weren't doing anything. They're just living like whatever. Eating whatever they wanted to just having fun. Right. And then when it's time to get serious, everything happened at once. And they've maybe even like borderline hypogonaddle if they had full recovery. They certainly weren't super physiological in terms of anortions. And then they get on the goodies. Yep. And they start training. And then it's just nothing but train and rest. Train and rest. Train sort of and everything gets totally different. Yeah. And they're growing while they're starting their prep. So to speak. Sure. That period. So they're actually they've got enough recovery built in. And now they've got this really novel like almost first cycle thing going on. Yeah. The whole they resensitized and they're adding in extra food to their because they're growing and probably getting leaner at the same time, which obviously can happen when not even got a novel training stimulus, a novel nutritional stimulus, and a novel pharmacological stimulus all going on simultaneously. It's a beautiful recipe. Yeah. That's a recipe for bodybuilding success. Yeah. For sure. Unless you're a natural then you're going to get you know booted because you'll pass the light and check your test. But you'll be jacks of cares. Go to another Federation. It's just, yeah. They put your name out on the internet actually and a lot of those. Oh, I've heard that. Yeah. I've seen that actually, man. That would be a disgrace. But then you just have to go to the NPC, kick some ass turn pro and say I didn't care about you guys anyway. Yeah. And make lots of friends that way. But yeah, they'll put your, I saw an interview with a guy for the German National Bodybuilding Natural Bodybuilding Federation. It's gay and BF. Yeah. G-it. Yeah. And yeah, when someone flunks, when someone doesn't pass one of their tests, they just put their name in their last initial. Okay. You can look them up and find them, I think. But yeah, like it's like, man. And you know what's coming. It's like, you signed up, like, they signed the waiver. It's like, you know, this is what's going to happen. Like, we're going to publish these. And I'm sure that discourage a lot of people from trying to cheat. Because that would, you know, how'd you do? It's like, saw your name on the website, but you weren't with it. It was in the wrong section. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So anyway, that was it. I thought that you might have some stuff to say in response. That was a fun conversation. That's good. Yeah. I mean, you know, there's like, like, what did, um, there's, there's, there's a possibility like you look at all the examples of like mechanics who are wrenching all day long and they have huge forearms, yes players for really big forearm or really big arm. Um, you know, actually, I had a, so on the last episode, I had pulled a picture of Roger Federer that I dropped in post-production. And you can see he's right handed here. Look at the difference of his forearm. Yeah. I remember seeing him play it. It was either the US open or wimpled in back when he was really hot and noticing that. And it's like, that's all I could see was the difference between his two arms. Like that would, can you pull up one of Martina and the Rocholoba? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. She was pretty muscular for a woman, just in general and her, and her dominant arm, her, her, uh, racket arm. Yeah. It was jack. Let's see if I can find a good one. You also, I think, have to get at the right angle to get it. Yeah. They're not getting like a forearm pose or whatever. Exactly. Here's one. Yeah. That doesn't show it. That's the, yeah. I had to kind of hunt around because a lot of times it's not proportionate here. Let's see if we can see this. Here you go. Dang. Look at the difference here. Yeah. We're right. Little vein, man. Yeah. It's like a monster. So she was a lefty then, huh? Yeah. Yeah. She liked it. It's pretty, pretty apparent. Those glasses have come full circle. Those are back in style again. Yeah. She was really good man. She was my favorite, you know, tennis player. I played tennis for a couple years when I was a kid. I'm a closet secret fan of tennis. Believe it or not. I get such a brutal game, man. I really followed it closely in the early 2000s and it was, uh, like, when Federer was, uh, on the top of his game. Man, that, yeah. That's a brutal, brutal sport. You don't think of it as a brutal sport, though, you know? So long, the match is going on and on and on. You have to have, like, some really some mental fortitude. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You remember, like, back when Andre Agacy was coming to the end chapters of his, of his tennis career. No, it was life. And he, uh, it was at the shaved head period. And in order to get through Wimbledon, they were doing, like, quarterzone shots in his back literally every morning to get thrown his back out and just to keep hanging out. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Wow. And he took out, I think. I was there, like, when John McEnroe, like, when he was, you know, acting out and doing all the things. Oh, I remember as a kid, my dad used to watch tennis and I remember seeing, and seeing him, and he'd go nuts. Him and, uh, it was a, uh, de-borg. They would, they'd have some de-borg. Yeah, I'm bored. Yeah. Yeah. They had some, some good rivalries. Yeah. That ball was on the line. Yeah. People don't know what we're talking about. That's okay. No, I mean, he, like, just totally, like, you know, it's sort of like golf in a certain sense. There's an, there's an etiquette, this is based in the origins of tennis, like it's a country club sport, so to speak. It's a sport of the age, you know? Right. And then you got a giant Macaron. Yeah. So you, like, you, you, you, you are very, very polite with the judges, you know, like Sir, madam, that sort of thing. And he's just saying, like, it's a side from using F bombs. Yeah. You're some F bombs. I don't know. But he just called people like that ball was on the line. He's like, are you blind? Yeah. Yeah, he, he, he basically, like, brought a little WWE into the game. He really did. He really did. Yeah. Who was good, though? He's good to see what's like, hey, you know? He's being, um, he's being honest. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm going to go for my grind out of Mr. Macco. Yeah. Yeah. For tossing calls the first good. Go violation against Macco, Robon. Sports for like conduct. You can't see. You got your soul full of shit. It's gone. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

you got the physical stuff taking care of the body, the TRT for this many months, you're going to be fresh, you're going to be like a baby hunter. You're going to have that your baby receptors back. It's a little bit exciting. Yeah, yeah, yeah, you're going to be like you're you're around like 300 bigs of tests and statistics float. I think I think and this is just me talking, you know, Samson keeps his camp pretty close, he's a great guy, but he keeps his people, which he should at his level. But I think he's very much so realized, he's going to live and die by his conditioning this year and he's not trying to leave that to chance. People talk about like 90s bodybuilding being like the Golden Stand and how today's like open guys like aren't as aesthetic and it's like well, you know, maybe all of those freaky aesthetic guys have been holding themselves back in plastic for the last couple years. Oh, they have been. Yeah, I hope it's like off the top of my head, you know, Irres Prism the pudding. He just wanted to open show. I will die on this hill. If you're, if you have a healthy body like no injuries, keeping you from doing it, I firmly believe you should be spending the first five to seven years here for your training on a trip or rest of the good stuff. There it is. Hey, everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. I love of course Big Brown Partlo here with Dusty Handshot and the producer Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yeah. For ad, of course, I am mutant.com headdiamet.com Dusty and Big Brown are your codes get 20% off. Have it delivered. Avoid people. Don't leave your house. All the stuff I love to do. It's crucial stuff. Hunter LeBrautta is on the show. It's good to have you back Hunter and you were just saying that last time you were on was before we had Scott kind of joining us. So it was like the first version of the show several years ago. Absolutely. And to be honest with you, this is kind of like my first for a back into the bodybuilding podcast social media around and like actually almost a year. I haven't done anything since like before the Olympia last year. It's a nice little birthday nice. I could see how that would be pleasant. Yeah, I can back in the murky waters. I don't know where. Yeah. Well, you know, sort of the, you know, you sort of take in a break from some other things too. Like what's your year been like? Catch us up on Hunter. This year has been hard but good. It's probably the best way to say, you know, started the year off feeling the mental idea of pretty fucking lost. Like didn't know what I wanted to do. Was facing a lot of uncertainty in my personal life, was facing a lot of uncertainty and in my professional life from, you know, my shoulder and his mother stuff that I had going on. So you know, beginning of the year, I was in a really, really weird spot. And, you know, after the Olympia last year, I knew I was going to take this whole year off, you know, between the physical and the personal things I had going on. So like wasn't like one of those like, oh my god, I can't bodybuild either. Like when I've rather just happened, because I knew I wanted to take a step back, but it was just kind of weird, you know, because, you know, for the last six years, I guess, you know, after the Olympia, it's okay, you know, it takes like a month or two to chill and then get on the road, start doing gas poses, pushing off season, you know, very much so I had my head buried in the sand bodybuilding for a while. And, you know, it was forced to take a step back this year, but, you know, it was one of those, uh, take one step back for two steps forward, kind of things I really feel that way. So, you know, beginning part of the year was really rough, you know, come, come like May, I had like my birthday and I had a trip to Sweden with gas, but I actually, you know, like, I'm that trip, I got to like, it was my first time I'd been in a bodybuilding trip since the Olympia, actually, so like May from like October to May, zero bodybuilding, anything. So, you know, I really know about how I was going to feel about it, but, you know, going there and getting the reception that I did and getting to talk with all these likes, minds of people and, you know, see the cool gyms, and I got to go with branch and Brett Wilkins, you know what's like, when I got back from that trip, it was one of those, no, you do like bodybuilding. You just need to learn how to upgrade, and it was differently, you know, so that was a good like first little step, and then this summer, actually, you know, for the last, you know, I don't know, eight summers, I've been pretty, you know, head down with bodybuilding, not like to the, it, me ignoring my daughter, but I definitely wasn't as present as I could be, so, you know, knowing that I wasn't competing this year, this summer actually had my daughter every single day, her mom works, I obviously live a bodybuilding lifestyle, I'm very blessed to do that, so I have a lot of flexibility, so instead of like daycare and summer camps, we had camps abroad of the summer, and I had Brooklyn every day from, you know, eight till six, and then on my weekends and stuff, so, you know, I spent the summer being dad, can't look right at me, you know, spending the summer being dad, and, you know, I'm still training and stuff, but it was very, very good for my head from the standpoint that I realized that the amount of, you know, how neurotic I had been about bodybuilding, you know, like trying to keep every single little variable controlled might have been a hurt more than a help, because, you know, like over the summer, I was, you know, eating four times a day, you know, still training because I like to train, but like, wasn't eating nearly as much food, you know, really, and this is another big one for me, this is big benefit out of this year is up until two weeks ago, I'm back now, but up until two weeks ago, I'd been on TRT since the Olympia, which had been, you know, the longest break by probably six times I've had since I went pro, so, you know, getting that chemical freshness to myself too, I feel like, you know, this whole year has just been like setting myself up to have a break out year next year, which, you know, five years into my pro career is kind of a cool thing to be able to say, and actually believe it, you know, there's a lot of guys say this year is it, but, you know, I have a really, really good feeling about this coming year. How is the shoulder now, like, what did you get done? So I had the shoulder operated today's Monday, actually, had the procedure on Monday, so 12 weeks ago today, and that is, you know, the end of the typical recovery period, so what I had to do, Doc said, eight to 12 weeks, I always, you know, had a couple weeks to that, because what I'm going to do whenever you say, I'm clear it is not what a normal person is going to do when they say they're clear to it, so five to six weeks. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. But what I had done to it was, just about everything that you can have done besides anchoring or repairing the late room and rotator cuff. So I had three pretty big floating bone masses we removed. I had a bone spur that we shaved down. We resurfaced my few-mural head, because I have severe arthritis in it. We de-bridled my AC joint. He de-bridled the rotator cuff and labroom like pathology that we had going on. We did a catch-ular release and then a manipulation under anesthesia, which for those of you that don't know the manipulation under anesthesia is basically exactly like a sound. They just force your shoulder way past this where it's comfortable while you're under anesthesia to try and break up scar tissue and adhesion. So I imagine the little 155 found Doctor who was like 65 years old that performed the procedure like just like talking like, RKL, my shoulder is something you're about creating room all the way. Yeah. So it was basically everything that we could do without anchoring or repairing the late room and rotator cuff. Because as I'm sure y'all know, that turns my 8 to 12 week recovery into a 6 to 8 month recovery. So I want to wait that. Especially knowing how trash the shoulder was, because, you know, my initial concept with the guys, the guy who does all the Texans and Astro shoulders here in Houston, you know, I go, I said, this MRI to 100 orthopedic surgeons and didn't tell them your age. All 100 was said you need a shoulder replacement right now. But your 33 years old, so we're going to find the way to put that off. Rick. I was going to interrupt earlier and say for anybody who doesn't know Hunter, he is not 80 based on the breakdown what you were getting done. Yeah. And then is nice and as advanced as our medicine system has become these days, it's still having an invent and a shoulder replacing the mechanical bodybuilding training. So whenever I have to have that done, competitive bodybuilding done, so we're putting that off for a little while. I love that you deal with a doc who works with athletes because like you said, it's such a different thing. I think you have to deal with them because you know, a lot of doctors, you know, they're like a general GP, like more surgeon might be like, oh yeah, you think you know, stop doing the things that bother you're doing. You need to stop doing things overhead or you know, maybe back off your training a little and it's like, yeah, yeah, this isn't my pickle ball after work. This is my life, even. You know, so working with doctors that you know, dealt with athletes and then, you know, just importantly is that I found is working with rehab and tissue guys that are working with bodybuilders as a big thing because even grade sports physias, you know, that are good with like football players or, you know, basketball guys or even strength sports. It's very different having the amount of size and tissue that we have, you know, the lack of joint space that we have, especially in the shoulders. Yeah, it's pretty wild. They first surgery ever got when I was a kid. I went just a regular doc, he did a scope on my knee and I saw him two days later and I said, what's the recovery? He said, just go how you feel. I was like, all right, cool. And I had to call him the next day. I said, hey, my knee is swallowed up like three times a side and it's bleeding down my leg. He's like, what did you do? I said, I went for a hike with two hot girls and he was like, why would you do that? I said to two hot girls. You said do what I felt and I felt like going on a hike with two hot girls and said, let's go for a hike. So, yeah, after that you start dealing with doctors or like, you're an idiot. I slow you down. Yeah, this surgeon that did this one was the same one that did my original procedure five years ago. So he's a little well-versed with me now. He's like he's like, normally I tell people six to eight weeks for this, but we're going to tell you eight to 12. And lean towards 12. That's awesome. You, you, you, you, you, you sort of talked about like a little bit of, you know, you're a little fried on bodybuilding too mentally from just like, you know, pounding and pounding and pounding. So what's the mental break been like? Like, you know, you got the physical stuff taking care of the body, the TRT for this many months. You're going to be fresh. You're going to be like a baby hunter. Yeah. You're going to have that your baby receptors back. It's a little bit exciting. Yeah. Yeah. You're going to be like, you're around like 300 bags of tests and it just explode. But I'm, I'm wondering what the mental side was. How do you feel you sort of, you know, the break and mental recovery too? Because bodybuilding, we know this, this bodybuilding bubble we live in, it's a lot. It's a lot of constant pressure on especially you as a top pro, though. Look your best and be your best and train in your hardest and max out everything and take advantage. You said every single variable all the time. What have been the highlights to you and what do you think you've, how do you think you've grown and what have you learned from this break? Well, I think the highlight to me is being able to say that the mental growth and recovery has outpaste the physical growth and recovery, which says something because I wasn't so much pain before I had the shoulder fix. I didn't know if I was going to want a bodybuilding more. So it's be able to say that's very cool to me. You know, it's, you know, finally spent the time instead of, you know, having had buried in the sand and going, all of the all this then or I'll deal with this later, you know, no, I, I dealt with everything and, you know, created bodybuilding, you know, started to recreate at least I'm still in the process of it. But started to recreate bodybuilding into something that I feel is sustainable for me. You know, dusty. I know you can, I know you can relate to this, but, you know, I got in the bodybuilding training on a hardcore progressive overload style. If I didn't walk in the gym and lift the same weight for another rep or put five more pounds on the bar and lift it for the same reps this last week. I was a fucking failure. Yeah. And, you know, that worked really great for three or four years, you know, through my amateur career and into my pro career. But, you know, when I got to the point where it's like I'm anxious for like two and three days leading into a like session because I need to hack 12 plates for a set of 12 over, you know, do this or that and then, you know, getting out of bed in the morning is like a 10 minute, you know, activity to, you know, finally get all the aches and pains to stop and get through all the musical bone pops that come for the first couple steps of the day. You know, it's like, I very much, so I think I got to the point where I was in so much, you know, pain with the daily routine that it was like, I could get myself through it, but it was one of those things, you know, like you open up your eyes and the first thing I'm, I open up my eyes now and the first thing on my mind, you know, is like, thank you or okay, here we go to good day to have a good day and I'm not trying to sound like Mr. Fucking Rodgers, but that's just how it is for beer right now. Right. You know, like last year, it was one of those things like I'd open up my eyes and go, here we flushing go again. You know, because it's like obviously like I have all the normal aches and pains from training the way that I do, you know, my shoulder at that point is like literally falling apart and the most painful thing for my shoulder, both before I had it fixed, the end now is I rehab it, is overhead pressing and posing. So what are you doing in prep? You are posing two or three times a day, multiple rounds. So it's kind of one of those things that you had opened up my eyes every single day for six months straight last year going, okay, let's get out of bed, let's go be in pain for 10 minutes, and then let's go ahead do 45 minutes of cardio, and then let's come meet half the amount of food you want to eat, and then, you know, let's go get your shoulder busted up by the PT, so you're able to get it over your head today while you train. And the whole session's going to suck. You know, it's just the whole day, it's just like one of like one thing after another, it's like, okay, here we go. Like I was very much so, and this is the best way that I've come down to being able to describe it is I was getting everything done on discipline. Right. I was getting nothing done because I wanted to do it, I was getting nothing done because I was having fun doing it, I was getting everything done on the discipline that I built over the last 10 years of doing what we did. Yeah. And that's not the reason that you started, you know what I mean? It's like you didn't get that wasn't the way bodybuilding, and I can I think we can probably all relate to that to, you know, in our own ways. Let me ask you because I remember seeing you turn pro, if Hunter of today could go back to that guy and just pull him aside backstage after he won his pro card, what would be the advice that you would give to him? Bye Bitcoin. So, lots of things. I spend a lot of time thinking about this year, you know, like what would I tell a young Hunter what would I want to tell a young bodybuilder? And it's going to sound a little like cliche and cheesy when I first say it, but when I extrapolate on it, hopefully it makes a lot more sense. And that is to fall in love with the journey, not the result. And I'll, you know, get specific about it now. When I was coming up as an amateur, I'll put it this way. So I never lost as an amateur. I won every single show, both my class and the overalls of an amateur. All the way through national I won national. I won my pro debut at Tampa. My first Olympia, my goal was to make top 10. I placed eight. My next Olympia, the goal was to place top eight. I placed fourth. Yep. You know, so, and then that following year, you know, that the following year is Olympia when I slipped from fourth to seventh was the first time in my, you know, seven for your seven year career that I hadn't either one or right, so it's technically your very first like, listen, that's that's third Olympia of mine was like the first loss I had taken in my life. Wow. You know, so I was human to take in many you're not think that was a good thing for me, because up until that point, I had fallen in love with winning. Of course. And you know, following him up with winning side, winning is fucking awesome. But you know, it's like, when I got that seventh place, when I fell to that seventh place, you know, I mentally crumbled for a little while because of it. You know, it was like, I was okay. I'm like, cut out to do this. You know, it's like, all of that self doubt and, you know, all those things that you normally experience way earlier in your career and learn to work through, you know, not in the spotlight. You know, I was learning to work through all these mental challenges, you know, being one of the top eight guys in the world and getting like, you know, just like my buttful stretch by the internet after that Olympia. You know, so it was a steep learning experience, but you know, it's like, it's like a time's gone on and, you know, I've taken my nonsense and, you know, I got to close second to anger, it takes us pro a couple of years to go. That was a good job. That was very done to me. I had myself in fifth to be Olympia this year. I got six, you know, it's, I've taken some else since then, and each one's been a lot easier to take and to rebound back from because I fall in love more at the journey of the prep than, you know, the end result because, you know, at the end of the day, you never know who's been a show up to show, you know, at my level, you know, who's been a show up, but, you know, especially at the amateur level and, you know, the pro qualifying level, it's like, you have no fucking clue if an extra on your home when it's going to show up to your profileifier. You know, it's going to be so attached to your contest playsings, you know, it makes, it makes the sport really miserable. If you attach your happiness to your contest playsings, I will say you're going to set yourself up for misery. It's one of the biggest lessons I've learned in my career this far. It's funny because that's that's something I think all of us would tell younger versions and no one listens. It's like, you know, I mean, how do you tell that a 23 year old kid that wants to be a pro to not get attached to his playsings? Like, it's just, you know, it's not, you're not going to happen. It's something you have to learn. How do you tell me, as, you know, like a young pro, like, you know, like, hey, man, you might want to, like, back off how you're training a little bit this sport to about like, yeah, but you do. And I was like, no, my feedback because you'll in P. last year was put more tissue on. So I'm going to do anything I fucking need to do that. I don't care if you have to say. Right. You don't know anything. What do you, what do you know? You've just been doing this 10 years longer than me. Right. You know, I have a question before we get to far away from it. With the changes in the personal life that you've had since you've been down, how are you going to, or how do you think you're going to balance the two things in harmony so that you can be more, I'll say, present in other areas. And do you also think, and I have a tweak on this from Jose Raymond, but you also think that by being more present in those areas that bodybuilding will be more fun? Yes, I do. And I've already started to experience that, you know, so, you know, I can't put a time frame on it, but it's been somewhat recently, you know, like going to the gym doesn't feel like working more, you know, because A, I'm recovering from my shoulder surgery because, you know, like, for the longest time, I associated a gym with pain. Right. You know, I really think that became like a subconscious thing for me. You know, it's like, I wasn't like dwelling on the fact that, okay, this is going to hurt again. I should training hurts, but I think subconsciously with the amount of pain that I was in consistently, for like the length of time, I think I began like mentally associating it with a negative thing. Right. So, you know, that have that kind of in the rear view and to have like the excitement of, you know, not making a comeback, but, you know, coming back from a surgery and, you know, getting to see my body come back to life and everything, you know, that's made the gym really exciting again. What about the people in your in your life, like, who has been, you know, like, really telling you, you know, I know how it is as a bodybuilder, not at your level, but sometimes you do stuff like, you'll tell, you know, I'll tell my wife like, you know, I'm not going to train shoulders for a couple of weeks. She's like, thank you. I've been waiting for you to do this for like two months, right? So, like, because you know, you'd be complaining for two months, like, oh my shoulder hurts, you know, and, and then that you finally take the break. So, was there anyone like when you took this break and you, you've, you've, you've, who is a most like, oh, this is exactly what you need and just there to support you the most? My mom, my dad and my training partner. You know, because, you know, obviously my dad, the gym that I train at, the LeBrona gym is actually in, you know, at our corporate headquarters. So, we have, you know, all of the, like, we have another warehouse. What we have, the main warehouse, all of the officers and the gym at one spot. You know, it's like, I'll see my dad just about every single day when I'm training, half the time, he'll change out and come be out at the gym at the same time that we're training. So, you know, like, for two or three years, you know, he saw it pretty much every single day, just like, how, you know, I'm just going to call the how fucked off I was from bodybuilding, you know, and it definitely was wearing on him, you know, be like one of those things, you know, at the same way you're right for on, you know, my dad, you know, obviously he knows what he's talking about, but you're never a prophet in your own land, right? Right. You're never a prophet in your own land. So, you know, I just, I just, I just, for the long time thought I was doing what it took, you know, and at this point, you know, especially after taking these last 10 months off and retaining the size that I have without even really trying, you know, I'm telling everyone out there listening to this. There is more than one way to skim the cat. Yes. You know, there might be like me best way to skim the cat, but if that best way is causing this like tie rate of like negative effects outside of bodybuilding, is it really the best way? Yeah. Yeah. So, to tell us then, like, what are you figuring out, and I know it's early, but it's interesting because I think all, a lot of us, we're really, there's been this big push with progressive overload, with everything that you were talking about, but I feel like I'm seeing this evolution within the community now of, you know, ways to get around it. Like I'm watching Nick Walker talk about, well, I don't always go to super hard failure, and I'm hearing, you know, a lot of different variety that maybe is kind of getting beyond just the another rap or another five pounds. I'm so glad you, I'm so glad you brought that up. So, yeah, what do you figure out, man? I want to say it like this, and that is, I think bodybuilding, if you're going to take it, you know, the distance, I, you know, start as an amateur and make it all the way to like the high-level pro, whether it be, you know, like truly, you know, Olympia competitive or, you know, able to win a pro show. There are different phases of your career, different phases of the training that you'll go through. You know, the way that Nick trained, like we talked about, is the same way that I trained for the long this time. Like we were progressive overload throwing around, obnoxious amounts of weight, like, whole nine yards, and you know what? It built our base. You know, it built me up to a certain size. It built, you know, the proficiency with the movements, it built everything up to a certain point. But, you know, if not speaking for him, although I've talked enough to, I know this is kind of for him too, but you know, it's like, I got to the point where I got so strong that I was, you know, regularly pinging things, trying to continually progress it. You know, it's like, if I'm, you know, not like tearing anything, but, you know, if I'm straining my quad, you know, bad enough towards, like, I got a skip, my next leg session. And then the following one needs to be like a 50% and then the one after that needs to be, you know, is almost back to normal. You know, it's like, I spent a month training suboptimally when you know, it's like, could I have accomplished the same thing that I strained my quad with the six plates with it? If I would have put, you know, four and a half or five on and just slowed it down and done another couple of reps with it? Yeah, probably. You know, so I'm not going to say I hadn't eaten go in it, but I definitely had it stuck in my head that, you know, progressive overload was the only way to grow. And I think, you know, I started to get away from that idea last year, just because like my body simply couldn't do it, especially with the shoulder. But, you know, coming into this year, you know, I am healing up to the point where I could do that again if I wanted to, but after training, you know, with that intensity backed off just a little bit, you know, I feel like it's made a world of difference. Now, I go back to saying there's different phases and, you know, I think Nick said something along lines of this too, you know, it's like, for 10 years, I trained every single work in set to failure or past failure with four strips. I became very, very, very, very, very familiar with what true failure felt like. And I don't think a lot of people know what that true failure feels like. I agree. You know, especially, you know, just going anecdotally off of me training with guys over show weekends or, you know, I got guests come through the gym, you know, especially on legs, you know, it's like, that's not over when it starts hurting, so that's over when the muscle's done. Yeah. You know, a lot of people don't have that concept really ingrained in their head yet. So I do feel like that a lot of benefit comes out of training that way, but I do feel like, you know, it's just, it's a journey that you have to learn to adapt to, you know, what worked when you started and what worked to put on your size is, you know, probably not going to be sustainable or probably not even what's best, even if you could as you get later in your career. You know, it's like, I don't need to be bigger all over. I need to be bigger in certain spots and I need to get myself peeled and to get myself peeled. I need to have my systemic inflammation at a manageable rate. And, you know, if I'm starting a prep after spending the last six months banging as much food and gear into my body as possible, training every session, you know, to the point where I feel like I'm going to start prepping a bed. Yeah. It took me a while to realize that, but I realize it didn't know. Do you think, um, because I really like you keep throwing in the periods of training, I feel like that's an area that gets missed in both directions. You got the guys who like you were stuck and continuing to train in a way you no longer needed to. And on the other of this spectrum, you got young guys watching guys that are late in their career who used to do all that stuff. And they're saying, oh, well, you know, so-and-so just kind of pumps his chest. Yeah. So that's what I'm going to do as a beginner. And I feel like that point that you made is so important because I agree with you. I think that the progressive overload laid your foundation and created what you have. I will die on this Hill. If you're, if you have a healthy body, like no injuries keeping you from doing it, I firmly believe you should be spending the first five to seven years year for your training on a trip aggressive overload style. There it is. Yeah. I love that. I get the soundmill. Some bite for the show right there. Yeah, that's the, that's all we need. It was good talking to you on your see later. No, I love that though because I feel like that's an area that gets thrown off, you know, because people will see like I haven't trained to ridiculous failure. And I can't remember how long. And like you said, you know, you'll go to something that casually rolling five, please. Right. To this day. But the, uh, I think it's funny though because what you said it really hit was how easily you're holding that mass. Like you're starting to realize like for you to shrink when you decide you're done is going to be a bigger chore than it was putting the size on. You know what I mean? It's, it's mind by that. I've first after the last like 10 to 11 months, I 100% firmly believe that. Yeah. You like the January whenever I was like, okay, like, I don't know what I'm doing with myself. I don't know what I want to do. You know, I was eating four times a day, you know, like whatever. I was all right, you know, you'll probably get down to like, you know, 255, 262 by like March or April. I'm trying to figure it out from there. Yeah. Yeah. You, you, you touched 289 one day and back up to 292. Yeah, that's freaking wild. I love this because I actually didn't hear your full story. I kind of watched your video review kind of explaining and I'm just amped because I feel like so I used to when I was with I force Jose and I did a lot of traveling together and obviously was nowhere near his level. Never could be never would be, but he taught me on the road how to relax because we'd be going out to eat and I'm like, I got my food in the hotel and he's like, no, there's food here and I'd like so I'd be fine. I put it in an order and he's like throwing an order of French fries for him. Now I'm looking at him like, what? He's like, we are on our feet all day. Trust me. So I started letting him order for me when we'd go out and I'd come home and I'd be like down a pound after two week trip. He's like, you'd have been down seven pounds if you'd have done what you were doing. And I just learned that relaxing and enjoying a little bit made me a better bodybuilder. I actually got better as soon as I stopped being, you know, I was the guy that brought the scale with me to the hotel room and waited out in grams. You know, again, I feel like that goes back to what we were talking about. You know, it's like when you first get started, I wouldn't even call it like you're being neurotic about it. You're just really learning how to be on top of all these things. You know, like when you first start, like it's hard to remember to wake up, do your gut drink, tell your health supplements, you know, do your vacuums, you know, do your cardio if you have your cardio, like have your meals ready to go, you know, there's a lot of shit to check off the list whenever you're first getting started. If you're wanting to do this, you know, at a certain level. But you know, after you do it for five, six, seven years, like it's not that hard. Yeah. It's not that hard. It's not something that you need to be that neurotic about. Like, yes, you have to prepare. But you've been doing it for like five, six, seven, eight years now. Like it should be relatively easy to prepare. So I couldn't agree more with saying, you know, like the longer I've done it and the more that I've realized, you know, it's like, okay, you know, it's like, yeah, it fits down until two o'clock in the morning to eat this meal, or I could get an extra three hours of sleep and just get up on time tomorrow and get all the food into Mario. You know, it's like, yeah. A couple of a couple years ago, I would've been sitting in an alarm at two o'clock in the morning and been in my kitchen, you know, troping food down and you know, messing my digestion up and waking up with an upset stomach, the next morning and that, like messing up my whole day. Now I get next to three hours of sleep and feel better the next day for it. Yeah. Yeah. I've always felt it. I don't know who said it to me, but I've always felt that sleep trumped food because I always thought, you know, I have killer workouts prepping for shows on barely any food as long as I have sleep. Right? Like, if you're getting good sleep, you can die at hard and self-great workouts. So I always was not convinced by the idea of like one meal being more important than like a good night's sleep for tomorrow's workout. You know, like, if I get a good night's sleep, tomorrow's workout is definitely going to be awesome. But if I get that extra meal in and then a shitty sleep, I'm not so convinced. So I don't know. That's just how I always felt. I always felt sleep was more important than asking. Well, me. Oh, degree with that. Want to talk about we got some training stuff, didn't we? We had some training stuff and also too. Oh, yeah. We wanted to get your perspective on the 2025 season and, you know, everything that's going on we're closing in. When I just started the earth or just got his placing it, you know, he's got his take. Yeah, but you think there's so much to talk about. We want your perspectives on all that. Because you, you know all these guys. That's one of the things we're excited about. Because you know, you don't just know them like hires, but you're like, you know all these guys, right? So, yeah, that's where you're going to start. Yeah, when you look, when they get you're going to start. Yeah, I think it went right to his quads. I think it went right to his quads. So what's your take on on that? Are you surprised? So I won't be the first one to say that I did not have some winning because I didn't think he was going to, because I feel like the body parts that were severely limited and said, you know, like, with how hard he was keeping himself under that cap, his weak body parts were like really weak in my opinion and his weak body parts being his arms. And, you know, in open body building, you know, you don't have free CRM's here and do well. So in my mind, I was like, okay, he'll probably place, you know, like, top five and then, you know, spend the next year bringing his weak body parts up and then he'll be a force to be reckoned with next year. Nope. How old that damn food went through his arms and legs? I was never going to see how it went. Look like he was just shrinking his limbs to make classic. Yeah. Honestly, man, the one of the most interesting things that came out of earth winning this weekend was, you know, like the sentiments and I've seen a couple different people posted it. I know, uh, you know, Terrence Ruffham posted it. I know I think I saw a couple other people say, but you know, it's like, how many people talk about like 90s body building being like the golden standard and how today's like open guys like aren't as aesthetic and it's like, well, you know, maybe all of those freaks, yes, that it guys have been holding themselves back in class for the last couple years. Oh, they have been. Yeah. I hope because like off the top of my head, you know, earth's proof from the pudding. He just wanted to open show. Yeah. You know, Ramon Ramon Dino looks like an open body builder for like six or seven months out of the year and then somehow miraculously makes way it every year. Yeah. So there's a couple guys like Mike Mike's incredible like all of yeah. So I don't know. And I don't know, Mike or Ramon, enough to know how bad they're holding themselves back. But you know, like, hers. I know well enough to know like he was 35 pounds over his cap with gluten and pretty much right. You know, I said it a bunch of times I saw earths in the offseason in Toronto one year and he had shorts on. So I couldn't see him, but I could see his caps and I was like fuck how the fuck heavy is he like he looked and I guess he was like 280. Okay, I said hi to him. I mean, I can't imagine Jim back in February. He was every bed of like 275 to it. Yeah. And I was just I was like talking to him. I'm like, Tron. I was like, man, this guy's going to start dieting now. Like yeah. I'm a lot of old loose months of brutal dieting to be 220 or whatever he has to wait. I just so yeah. It's one of the outside of earths this season. I feel like it's been pretty damn exciting man. I feel like it's been a great year. I feel like we're starting to get a glimpse of some of the like the up and cumbers that are going to be here for a while. You know Jordan Patrinson, you know really delivered a Texas and a Tampa. That was really fun to watch. He's a good friend of mine. Yeah, I was going to ask you see him often because you guys are both down there in Texas. Yeah. So Jordan and Justin and Alia and all those guys all the gas boys, they all live up in Dallas. They all live pretty close to destination Dallas now and then I'll pop up there at least once or twice a month and you know fulfill my obligations that I have with gas and then catch a lift, eat some food with them and they're dieting and everything. We got a good thing going in Texas right now, man. Yeah, you do. It's definitely a really California now. Yeah, right. Right. Martin, Martin, both live 30 minutes from me. You know every single day out my gym, it's me and Terence and Logan and you know we got we got a good crew in Texas. Absolutely. I wanted to ask you, I saw some news this morning that I actually didn't even discuss it with these guys. I assumed everyone's heard, but I saw that Keyons doing the Prague open. Oh, you're kidding me. Is it me, too? Yeah, last year it was Chris this year. It's Keyons. Oh, that's crap. It was for everyone that's doing that show. Yeah. It was for everyone. It part of me, part of me, what right when I heard it, I was like, damn, I wonder if no one's going to go just to it on a risk being knocked off by Keyon. Yeah, part of anything. It'll be stacked and then part of me thinks I could be key on them to solve a European guys that we're planning and doing it regardless. But right everyone's saving your orchard. You said they don't want to get caught slipped until you see. I can't, I mean, he is one of the few though, where at the 212 cutoff, I wish that they'd let him just hop into the Olympia. Because I really think at his with his structure, I mean seeing him in person and posing, you're like, it's impossible that you're not too bored. I personally think Keyons is a best bodybuilder on the planet. I really do. Really. He's incredible. And you're a guy who, do you see him? Like, I know he was in Texas, freezes. Don't Texas. Yeah, he's a good in Texas for a while. So I'd see him. Yeah, he really, he's not with gas. But anymore, so I don't see him as much, but you know, like, I'll see him when I go to Vegas, which is often enough. Yeah, because he moved. Right. Where is he now? I can't remember. We have him on this. He's a big ass. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, they got a great thing going on. They're he's completely locked in your, um, so it's been really fun to see the progress he's made. Because I feel like that was the missing piece for me. You know, just finding that right environment and finding that right through a people and, you know, proofs and the pudding, what he's done the last three years. Well, he learned how to do leg curls. He, he was on our show and he said, oh, yeah, I turned pro. I'd never done a lying leg curl before. Like, I was in doing it. I said, I need to bring my hands up. But we're like, well, what would you do? He's like, well, I started training them directly, you know? Yeah, he said that. He's like, yeah, I started like, doing hands, you know, like, we're in training. Usually, he has the crazy spostier, you're chained in the ice. He can just say that. Yeah. Yeah. That completely nuts. I didn't hear that. I was that wrong. That's, uh, glad I'm not a guy that was going to win that show. Okay. Second place is still good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, what, what, what are, what are, uh, some other matchups you're, you're looking for at the Olympia? Like, you know, we've got some interesting guys. Obviously Jordan's going to be there and all that stuff. So, you know, that show, talked about him going to be fun to watch. You think it's going to be shaken up? You know, sometimes the old doesn't get that. You should just see what happens like one through five because I feel like that's a complete toss up this year. Yep. And also really it's just to see what happens like five through 10 or 11. You know, to that feel like there's 10 guys that could be in those five or six spots. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. It's going to be been a long time since we've had an Olympia that's really going to come down to like who peeps the best and, you know, who did the who get their homework. You know, there's no clear cut like, you know, first group sector. There's a clear cut first group second group of guys, but within those groups, there's no like clear test favorites. Yeah. And then you still run that, you still run that possibility of one of the clear cut second group guys just forcing his way into the first group. You know, like, well, like how we, you know, no one really saw Martin doing what he did last year. Everyone thought he was going to be awesome. He's going to be awesome. He's going to be in the top 10 and then he's not the top five. Right. And also, if someone does that, who do you think it's going to be? If someone does that, I would say it's probably going to be their Brett or Jordan. If I had to pick some rights. Right. You know, I feel like, you know, those are true guys. They could, you know, really, really push into like that top eight or even you know, like seven spot. And I feel like they did a fall to, you know, like, maybe even 11312. If they don't Kim and on, you know, that being said, both of those guys have a history of coming in very on for their shows. So I'm really excited to see what they do. And they're both good friends. So I, I know, I said, like everyone's a good friend, but, you know, it's like, open to good group of guys. So it's like, it's going to be very bitter, sweet, but also very exciting to be watching from from the seats this year. Oh, yeah. I think they're a little scary. And just standing next to each other, like, I would love to see those guys compare just because, you know, how it is. I mean, they're great individually, but I just love to see them next to each other because if somebody said, who's better to me right now? I'm like, I don't know. Yeah. Yeah. Like, can you put them next to each other and give me, you know, 10 rounds to make a decision? Yeah, I would, I would give Brett the award of, like, more likely to be the dark horse personally because I feel like people are people are watching Jordan now. We're going to like, we're going to see how he does. In Jordan's Jordan's coming off, you know, fresh off a two wins with him the last eight weeks or nine weeks. But it's time for us to come around and get a Brett qualified last year and, you know, bodybuilding fans and their, uh, their memories. Exactly. Like, he makes flash while ago, right? Yeah, it's been a little while. So you can surprise him. You'll last year, I'm retired. Right, right. Yeah. So it's, it's a, it's a wild thing, but that's very true because you do. It's fresh because in my head, I think you just nailed it even for me as I'm like, my brain kicks back and says that I would assume Jordan is better, but I'm thinking of Brett from a year ago, right? It's been Brett for you. And I'm sure he's done a thing or two in the last year. I mean, the last year, you got to think last year and move to Texas and him and Mark, and then just fucking heating weights together every day for a year straight. Yeah. Yeah. But you're going to be a lot better. Do you feel like that's something? And it's funny. We've talked about this on the show, but I think a missing link for a lot of people is, like you said, the environment or the training partners, like I always had training partners that were just as insane as I was who also operated on my schedule, like they would literally be like, what time are we training? And it would be whenever I wanted. And that's just game changing. I'll say this after having some really great training partners over the years too. I think the single greatest tool that you're going to have on your training is a training partner. Because a good training partner will get the best out of you a good training partner makes, you know, equipment with an okay resistance profile great because they can spot it in the areas and they'd just spot it in, you know, especially once you develop a rapport in a history with one, there are people that can call you on your bullshit, you know, you did that fucking ten times last week, right? Yeah. And you know, so it's like that. And then I'm sure you've had this desk. Yeah, I've had a couple training partners that were close enough in strains that were basically just trying to fucking kill each other in the gym every day. Oh, yeah. I did my best. I've been some of my best progress that made in my career, you know. So I feel like a good training partner is an absolutely invaluable tool. Yeah, I feel like one of the coolest things when you get a great training partner is at the end of a set when you're thinking like three more and they say five. And you know that they know you. So that's not like a bold, ridiculous statement. You're just like, okay, it's five. You know, whereas on the contrary, like I had a guy that I trained with one time that I literally trained with him twice, then I told me couldn't come back anymore. Because I'd be like squeaking out a wrap and he'd go six more. And I'm like, my brain will like shut off. I'm like, are you high? Are you fucking stupid? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It doesn't help me that you want me to get 30 more reps when I'm like dying, you know. So literally like I just like, this won't work. You know, because it's fine if they, you know, if they're close, if they're pushed you for one more, but when I get to ridiculous, you're like, it's almost like you shut off, you know, you dumb. So you get to know it or it gets you hurt one of the people. Yeah, exactly. So no, I agree. I think of that's, and I love seeing it because you watch, I mean, seeing Jordan moved to Texas, that changed his career. Yeah. Him and Justin getting together up there and it's game changing for sure. Absolutely. Hey, what did you think we never talked about this on the show either, but that apparent Samsung just made. I think that he was flat is piss and showing the world that he is really pushing for conditioning. That's exactly what I thought. When I saw it, I thought he looked smaller, but he's dieting hard, but I thought he was super lean. I think I think, and this is just me talking, you know, Samsung keeps his cam pretty close. He's a great guy, but he keeps to his people, what you should at his level. But I think he's very much so realized he's going to live and die by his conditioning this year, and he's trying to leave that to chance. And when I say, when I say smaller, I don't actually mean smaller. I just mean like I could tell him he's like the funny thing. He's flat. So in the way 300 pounds on stage. Yeah, I can tell the woman him. I think he's I think he is. I think he is going to be, I don't know, I just, I think Samsung is going to be the best Samsung we've ever seen. That's not. If you guys are right, if he comes in, like absolutely lights out peeled, I don't know if he can be beat, you know, I'll be completely honest with that shape and already being the champ. Like that's going to be a really dangerous place to be. I think Samsung, one of the, one of the most impactful things about him and one of the reasons why he's Mr. Olympia is because like, I see no use to say to me, like, it's really hard to get around a guy who looks like the champ in the front relaxed. Like when your front relaxed is clearly the best, like just aesthetically mask everything, just the way he flows and looks, it's so hard that you got to, you know, you got to make up all this ground right off first impression. And Samsung's front relaxed, I just love his front relaxed, man. It's crazy and, you know, it's how everything falls in the right spot. You know, he doesn't stand too wide. He doesn't even, he's natural looking like he's just like legs for arms. Yeah. Yeah, he's a tape is crazy. He's huge. He's taller than everyone. It's like, you know, it's just that overwhelming front relaxed. Like, like, at the routines on the Olympia night show, when you see their silhouettes before they come out. It's like that was made for Samsung, you know what I mean? Samsung or Andrew Man, Andrew's front. Yeah, another. He's out of a little too wacky. Yeah, absolutely wacky. Yeah. What's the craziest thing? You know, you've done the Olympia a couple times, man. You've done very well at that level. What's I know we've all seen freaky stuff. Like, I saw Dorian, guess pose in 93 when I was just young and like, you were still a sick of yourself. I was one year old. Oh, you were a one year old. That's the eight. So yeah, you didn't have the back door and had back then. But like, you know, you never forget those things. But is there anything at the at the Olympia level that you saw backstage or or on stage where you were like, I had one good two story for this with everyone, anyone that asked, like, people asked this question, friend, regularly. My, uh, welcome to the Olympia moment was my rookie Olympia. And I was in a pro tan 10 getting a coat of tan put out. And you got eight right? What was your first? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. So, you know, get the tan put on your glaze put on, you know, it's it's either bends away for a list of doing this. Like, they're really good friends of mine. I'm like, bye. I've been having a good time. I'm at my first to let you know. I come out of the tent and fucking ramen is sitting there just with his legs locked and like bent over getting the glaze put on his back and hamstrings and it looked like a fucking kitchen table sitting in front of me. And he just like, oh, okay. Welcome to the zoo and I'm hoping that was my welcome to the Welcome to the Olympia moment. So, ramen. So what year was that man time flies? That was 2020. Oh shit. So that was the year that filled it as comeback and it was that's there. You got third. And yeah. Wow. Wow. It's so funny when you mention ramen. Yeah, because so it was a while ago. Talk about, you know, like, there's different levels to it. You know, the iron member being backstage at Tan because, yeah, I fucking belong here. I'm going to win the show. I remember getting back stage just the Olympia looking around and going, oh, boy. While the flying and winning, it's different. It's hard. It got, it got less far apart though as the years passed. Oh, yeah. After you took fourth at the Olympia, did, did, did you finally realize that I mean, because I mean, I've followed you or known of you before you got into bodybuilding because, you know, Bruce from, from working at LaBrada and he used to own my stores and he would just occasionally send me like pictures of you when you were like tinkering with weights. And I'm like, if he ever starts, it's going to be frightening. And then he would send me updates when you were natural and you did not look back. I remember you and your natural like, like, yeah, if you would have shown me your daddy picks on the member's share because I don't feel like arguing with idiots on the internet. Listen, listen, I would have been one of those idiots. Like, I saw those pictures. I'm like, now when you say natural, do you mean natural, do you mean like only test and try and any queue and ski, just to throw, sorry, did you, did you realize when you sort of do that jump that like that that winning at the highest level was absolutely in the cards? Or have you realized that yet? I will say that my rookie season actually, so was the 2020 year so co-videer whenever that all happened. And I was originally planning on doing the New York Pro for my pro debut. It's the saying show that Lee did for his pro debut in one and it was called the night of champions when he won. Oh yeah, and I was see buddy with a ring. Follow and that's footsteps, you know, get a ring, you know, do Steve show, never hurts and you know, all that stuff. Well, I started prepping February and that shows normally in May. It got pushed back and then it got pushed back and then it got pushed back. And I ended up competing in August at the Tampa Pro that year. But I vividly remember that you're thinking about how much of a blessing in disguise that was seeing the pictures because I got for the New York pro. I got to the point where I was probably like four weeks out before it got called. You know, it's like my glutes were pretty much in like I was lean lean and it gave me the ability to rebound out of that for a good, you know, 10 to 12 weeks and then come back down again and then actually rebound again because I got pushed again. And if you look at my pictures when I'm like at that four week out, Mark versus New York versus, you know, like the four week out, Mark from Tampa, you know, one was going to win a pro show and one wasn't going to win a pro show. Right. So it was that 2020 year, like really my first season is a pro that I really, you know, got my head wrapped around. Okay, you know, you are big enough. You do have the size you're able to get and get enough shape that you can, you know, win your pro debut. Because you know, it's like you have two camps of people, you know, have you have the, well, they're fucking win the thing. And then, you know, you have the other camp of, you know, hey, be realistic, you're competing a bunch of, but with a bunch of grown ass men have been doing this, you know, 15, 16 years. Because you know, at the time, my first season in 2020, I was 27 years old and I had competed in five shows total in my life. They did five shows the year before at the pro level. Yeah, exactly. You know, it's like I'm competing against guys of, you know, 30, 40 shows under their belts and stuff. So, you know, they're like two schools of thought headed into it, but you know, like after, you know, headed into Tampa, I thought I could win it. So that was like the first time that I really thought, you know, at the pro level that I could do well, you know, coming out of national, I had shoulder surgery. My first one in March after I won national. So, you know, all of 2019, you know, winning a pressure wasn't even on my mind. It was just okay, get back to what you looked like before the third. What did they do that time? What was that shoulder surgery? Same shoulder. So, first shoulder surgery was just a pretty big cleanup job like this one. And then we also tend to yeast my bicep. So, everything I have going on at this side of my body can be traced back to an injury that I got my freshman season of football. I got tackled from behind. It was in the slide. I played writing back. And, you know, caught the ball turned up field behind that you came from behind. We're at to me up. So, we both came down on my arm like that. And I actually broke my humorous up here and then dislocated the shoulder at the same time. And when I dislocated the shoulder, it blew out what's called your transverse humoral ligament, which is the ligament that holds the long head of your bicep and the bicep little groove. I moved by. So, for the next decade, that 10-lin-base, that who was riding in and out of that groove to the point where I don't just it literally almost rubbed itself in half. Because after, like, I got the MRI on it, headed into nationals and the doc was like, you need surgery, but you know, you can get through this print. You just don't know anything stupid. You know, we did the surgery and the first thing it said when I woke up was like, well, you know, the MRI didn't really present how bad it was. It was hanging on my thread. You got really lucky. And I was like, oh, okay. So, that's good. So, yeah, it was just a big clean of job and then I'd buy that 10-in-a-d-ease to step first storm. I got to ask you a few questions, you know, but I've told you this and many people know this, but your dad was the first pro I met. I've told you that story. He came to guess pose where I lived when I was like 15. And so I was like 15-year-old kids, he and your dad and the gym and pick and he doesn't look big and then he took a sweatshirt off and did a couple sets on his tank top. And he was like six weeks out from the O2 and I'll never forget the impact that happened. So, you mean you have the gym with parents right now? Yeah, he doesn't look big. He's like, he's closed off and you're like, what the fuck is that? Yeah, I'm starting to wrap your hair. Yeah, no, no, it was just it's a real vivid memory. Like, I remember, you know, the owner of the gym Sam were bringing Lea-Broad up and it's awesome. He's second place in the Olympian and then he comes up and he had just shaved his mustache. So we're like, oh, Lea-Broad. He's going with no mustache for this Olympia, right? But yeah, he was really awesome. It was a first pro I ever met. But I just wanted to ask you like, what is your dad's take on what you've done with your career to this point, even including the break, have any shoulder operated on? Obviously, I assume you've surpassed, you know, he never, he told me he never never pushed you to bodybuild once. You did it all on your own. But what's his take on, you know, where you've gotten in the break you've had and what you plan to do now? Yeah, so his take on, you know, originally, you know, going back to, you know, like getting out of high school. I was a pretty good football player growing up and got a football scholarship. To a T-T-School up in Boston and you know, he was really involved with, you know, taking me around to like the recruiting camps that I'd have to go to and this and that. So he's like very invested in my football and enjoy to watch me play football and then, you know, also it's been there done that with the bodybuilding thing. It knew it took to be good at bodybuilding. So I don't think anyone who necessarily pushed their child to that. So, you know, you know, coming out of high school going into my freshman season of football and college, you know, like I got up there and you know, when it wasn't Texas high school football with all my best friends and it was a 50 hour a week time commitment for, you know, the games to be smaller than my high school games and at that point, I knew I wanted the bodybuilding at that point. I'd also had three discussions of broken shoulder and a vision fracture to hit, you know, yeah, not a lot of shelf life on the average. I don't regret playing football football. No, the best memories of my life, but it's not if you get hurt as one and how bad and up until that point, I hadn't gotten hurt bad enough to where it would affect the bodybuilding. So, you know, I made the call during camp, my freshman year, that I had officially gotten to the point where I enjoyed training to play football and where the playing football and that I was done. So I actually called my dad and let him know and he was upset to the point where he was like, fine, and they're at home from the airport. Whenever I came home, wow. Yeah, so that's the degree to which he didn't approve of me saying I wanted the bodybuild, you set a football, that's the beginning, but um, you know, obviously, you know, I did it, you know, that freshman year I put on like a ton of size, like, you know, 200 pounds and like football shade, like lead lead to 100 pounds and like, you know, by the end of the year, I think I weighed like 235 and granted I was kind of, you know, I looked like I had an eating and all you can eat cafeteria plan and eating all the weights all year. Proper young man bodybuilding. You know, after he saw the size that I put on and you know, saw how you know, like locked in the I'll then am dedicating that I was to and he was like, okay, you know, I'll support this. You know, going into that 2018 year where I won junior USAs and then nationals, they'll probably tell you that was the year that he started looking at me going, okay, you know, he might be able to have a pro career, like a pro career, not like what I've done so far, but it was after that Tampa show in 2020 that he was trying to like, all right, man, you know, you got what it takes, you know, it was tough crowd. He never beat my ass man. I love it. I never never blew smoke at my ass and he'll be the first person to say that he did not think that I would even come close to doing what I've done so far. So that's why I love that. I like that. I'd like to think that I have some some realistic people in my corner. I don't get much smoke blown up my ass by my what do you think? I've taken like there's been pictures put up before like your side try stepping your dad's side try to suffer whatever like people, you know, what do you think you genetically are similar to him? Like what what what what body parts or what poses or what what things do you think you're like, oh, that's clearly from my dad. Our whole thing. Our arm shakes for free clearly similar. Okay. That's where the triceps pop and you said we try to shake the shoulder shape, the biceps shake, the split and the biceps. That's all pretty pretty similar. I feel like our back shape is pretty similar, but I feel like, you know, me growing up and competing in the area that I've error that I compete in versus his, you know, it's like I've just had to put more tissue on my face. I feel like well, the state similar. I feel like I have a lot more tissue on my back than he did. Yeah. But I feel like the biggest genetic difference between him and I and you're going to laugh is our glutes. He had no ass and I had that kind of mad son, me pretty sure. Yeah. He was never a big squatter in from the time that I was like 13 until probably 21 years old. I was in a squat or at least once a week. So I'm so thankful to really good base for my yeah, exactly. I feel like if Leela brought us your dad, your expectations on yourself for posing are automatically probably going to be a little bit higher than the average. It might be rolling over. It is great right now. I think it's about my posing. Yeah, does he really? Does he really? So that's one of the things you never really excited about this year because you know, to be honest with you, the reason why you know, I don't you know, at least making attempt to pose at the level that Leep posed at is for the last four years posing has been excruciating. Okay. Yeah. You know, it's not like, this is so much fun. I feel like an artist right now as I piece together, all of these beautiful streams of poses and this isn't that. It's like fighting for my fucking life going, okay, you know, get through two more rounds and then you can stop this because it feels like someone's shoving. What? What hurt the most like cranking like your arm back for me? So the interpretation for the front of the guy. So I had this shoulder surgery. I felt like someone was just shoving a knife in the front of my shoulder. Right. Yeah. So at what point like could you put you could put your arm like this and then like, ah, like, yeah, pretty much the second you started engaging. Yeah, pretty much here as far as I could go. In the top of the dictator, Kasia. How is it feeling now like are you are already getting like a lot of relief at this? Yeah. What's the range like? I would say probably by like seven or eight weeks post stop it had better range of motion and was less painful than it was before the operation. That's it. You know, in the past four weeks it's gotten like noticeably better to the point where it's like I can sit in the front of a pretty comfortably now. So, you know, all the doctors I've talked to all the physical therapists that I worked with all of them. This is going to continue to get better for you probably five or six months. So to know that I'm pretty optimistic about it. I think it'll be interesting to see how that impacts your training because anybody who who's delved into training and the way the body works understands that you've been able to build your back the way it is in spite of the fact that you're probably not moving through the right range of motion. You're moving through the motion you can. This is a scap, scap, scapular movement on that side was definitely a little bit more depth for sure. Yeah, and I think that that's a game changer because, you know, yes, you're completing a movement, but there's just certain things that can't be, you know, I mean your body's job is to avoid pain. Exactly. So when you're when you're doing something simple that hurts, if you're elbow slightly more forward on that left side out of protection, there's nothing you can kind of really do about it. You don't know, I mean, I think it'll be interesting to see how much more change you see in that case. Even like, even like, from a neurological standpoint, you know, like certain things are in pain or hurt long enough, your body will start neurologically protecting. Even though we're not going to have to let the body do it. And, you know, hold nine yards, it just kind of makes its way down. Like that whole arm, you know, it'd always be, you know, the 10 to night is in my form. And elbows were sent that side, you know, the wrists always bat on that side. You know, you get triggered thumb from time to time on that side. You know, it's like everything's just down the stream. You know, the same way it is when like, you know, you heard an ankle and then it makes it way up to your knee and then it makes it way too low or back. Yeah. I think it's going to be a wild thing, though, because your entire body should actually be impacted positively. I mean, the amount of, like, I mean, CNS that's getting hammered just being in pain all the time, your recovery is going to speed up. Actually, I have bad news. The good shoulder's going to be so good that now, but the other shoulder's going to completely go to shit. He's got 10 more years for that. I didn't know. You're kind enough. I'm kind of not wrong. I was, I was. I've noticed the other one hurts a little more. Right. Right. I, I, I, I, I tore my quad in 2016. My left quad had it fixed rehab was great. But now my right hip is completely screwed. And I know they're related. I know that the quad tear and maybe for two years after kind of favoring that side. I know that's why my hip is gone. So I'm just, hopefully everything just goes very well. And your body doesn't just chill through the other way. Just fall in love with stem cells. You'll be fine. Yeah. Yeah. No, man. It's going to be awesome. I'm going to encircle this way for five years. I'll just start. What? What overhead pressing machine is if you can only do one overhead pressing movement for the rest of your life. Free of pain. What, what do you want to pick? If it was free of pain? Yeah, again, you know, now that you're fixed, maybe you, there's a pressing. You can press. Is the prime shoulder press, but it still is very spicy. Basically, what I found like from my front delt compressing work. I either do like see this like table front raise like from here like to up there. So it's like almost just a band of like general raising as a press is, but it's very comfortable on the joint or, you know, actually just got a shoulder press delivered today that allows me to do it. But I'm saying that really wants me to have my elbows. Yeah. Yeah. It's not the out there. I'll trick and wing makes a big difference. Yeah. I got I can't I can't get my hands back like for like show. You know, it's from a true life like do I'm here. I always tell people this to like when they look at their trainings like not get so married to the exercises and get more married to the movement patterns. You know, like from a movement pattern perspective, a shoulder press is not really checking many boxes that you can't check by doing, you know, your in-fine presses for your chest, which I do and are comfortable. And then doing that front raise, you know, front raise motion. Okay. Yeah. Well, we'll wrap it up here. I just got a couple of quick ones for you. Who's the funniest pro? Who's the funniest pro? You got quite a crew in Texas here. I'm sure someone around there. So you all probably haven't heard of him with the new day trained with Roy Evans. He's he's absolutely hilarious. He's the new to I trained with in all my videos just to at every day, you know, some little bias to him. But you know, as far as pros and everyone knows, go man Andrews surprisingly, Woody and funny. You know, I know he's like pretty quiet like to the masses. Those guys are dangerous though when you get them get to know him. I got a lot of guys dangerous. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, man. What about, um, oh, Dan, I have one more here for you. Oh, yeah. Who's your favorite pro to follow on social media? He doesn't follow a pro bodybuilder. She thinks they're boring. Yeah. No, that's why one should stick out. Is there anyone who's getting? Who gives the best content? You know, honestly, man, I'm going to chat to Brett and Martin right now. They've been doing a really good job with other stuff. Like strictly from like a nuts and bolts bodybuilder. Yeah. You know, we just talked about that. They post the whole workout. You know, they're posting consistently. Right. Obviously they're both in prep. So it's like fun to see their check-ins and stuff. So I probably go with them right now. Yeah. Yeah. We just get a show. It feels like they've got like the best training partner like symbiosis going right now. Yeah. We just did a show on like who is the best pros that you would tell like a young guy to follow. Yeah. You know, follow these guys. Like you know, do what these guys are doing. You know, do this. What did you say? You said your generation had Dorian and Leeroy and then the next generation had branch Johnny and Brian. Yeah. Johnny and then now we've got those two. Those are the modern version. Yeah. Yeah. Every generation needs like a real quality hardcore pair of like duo. Yeah. Every generation needs a good duo. You know? So okay. Hunter man, great to talk to you again, dude. I remember meeting you. I think we first met at the Australian Arnold when you were working the booth with surgery. 2015. Yeah. Me and Serge. Yeah. And you were like, you were, were you still not in 2015? I think you might have been. But you were. Did my first show in 2016? Yeah. So you had started writing the bicycle by then. But I was like, so you were to me. Yeah. You weren't anywhere else on it. Yeah. Because you weren't, you weren't competing yet. I just knew you was Hunter. Oh, that's Leer's kid. Oh, awesome. Because I remember when you were a baby, right? And then I was like, oh, there's me. So I was 2015. I was for sure. Just Leer's kid. So yeah. Yeah. But I remember going over and meeting you and be like, I wanted to meet you. Yeah. Me and my dad did such a laugh out of it now. Because like obviously like when I first got started, it was always like, oh, that's Leer's kid. Oh, that's Leer's kid. Oh, that's Leer's kid. And now we get all that's Hunter's dad. Oh, yes. That's your bad. Oh, that must have been when that tilted. That must have felt good. I really enjoyed when I saw your dad last time. He's so easy to talk to. I don't expect him to remember me. Obviously, but I was just like chatting and I was and he goes, he asked me. I know John Meto's claimed it, but he definitely could be runner up and bodybuilding Mr. Rogers for sure. There you go. So I remember Leer said, uh, he like talked to me because he told you now and I said, and he was, oh, I still got you by quite a bit. And he goes, just wait, you're going to, everything's just going to start falling apart. I remember he jumped him as I tore my calf water skiing. And I was like, oh, I don't say that. Yeah. So there's no chance in hell who watches this. So I'll say it. Maybe someone will send him a little snippet and die me up. But this dude, the other day, he's trained his calf pulling something out of the oven. Oh, no. He's like, you got a little hotness and he was about to drop it. And did like a little hippity hop and it's trained the fiber and it's like, I know you're getting old, huh? Damn. Okay. Well, thanks Hunter. Thanks for everything. Thanks for your time. Really happy to hear from me. You sound fantastic. You can't wait to see what you got planned next. And, uh, yeah, you're always welcome back here, man. Yes. Thank you, everybody. Hunter LaBrada on the show. Is this second time? Second time. Second time. Great to have you back, man. Thank you, Hunter. Great to be back. Appreciate you all having me on this. Yeah, it's really better. Great to have Hunter on. We're going to talk to him again. You know, that was cool. He, every time I talked to Hunter, he's, um, he's so like, you know, some people take you just talk to them. Yeah. Hey, Ronald's going. What's up? You know, like he's very, very easy to talk to and sometimes I don't talk to him for two years. You know, like the Wolfpack booth was right next to us at the last year. So Hunter was there a bunch of the day didn't get to talk to him. Oh, give me a second. Let me hold on for one sec here. He's leaving. Yeah, let me do it in a little 30 second. We're doing our little end. It's just a quickie. Guys, this is what Ron does ever since he got famous. This was what does he have to put up with every time now, every never fails. And his age, he might be going to the bathroom. I don't know. I don't know. He just he could wait. He couldn't wait. I got to go. I mean, I've been setting him to Penza as house, but he's not. So, but no, it was great having Hunter on. I really hope that some of the, um, it's something I just got. I've been working with a lot of my competitors on is, is figuring out that if bodybuilding starts to take over their life, yeah, that they're doing it wrong. Um, and I know I was the same way. It was bodybuilding like it didn't matter what the other thing was. This had to happen. And I got better when I released that a little bit. And like he said, it, you know, Ron always says that it's it becomes background, you know, open, open files, uh, you know, and that is truly how it is, but you stay locked in that form of like I must. Yeah. Do you have a good point that like before you can get to that stage, Dosty, you do have to like lock it in. Yeah, you got to lock it in before you can like and do that long enough to start realizing like, and I don't want to use the term cutting corners, but you can learn where you where the corners can be cut versus there's that first several years where you're just like, I've got to do it at, you know, I'm supposed to eat this meal at one o'clock. I got to eat the meal at one o'clock. Yeah, not one or five. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And then you you get, you get used to it after while you figure it out. I'm sure you guys do this because I do it every day still, but like I make monster stakes. I still try to portion myself. And every time I'll cut the steak and be like, I bet you that's 10 ounces and just put it on there. And it'll be like within, you know, point two. Yeah. Like that's why when I go out and eat or something, if I'm keeping in, I am like, this is how much I can eat. You know what I mean? You've seen 10 ounces for 18 years on a plate. You kind of know what it looks like. I have tiny rice portions now, 150 grams. And I will do the same thing. I ball it every time and then turn the scale on and see. Did I get it? Yeah. 150 grams. So that's like three spoonfuls. Of course you can get it. Yeah. That's rough, Scott. If you don't hungry thinking about it, then you're taking 190 pounds. So they only need three to three spoonfuls. It's me and each me and each me and each me. Yeah. Yeah. Perfect. Yeah. So great episode, though, guys. And I am very excited to see. I love to have someone that's, you know, understands and can bring more insight to, uh, to guys like you said Scott because we tend it's something that you tell me all the time. She goes, you guys forget that you know these people. And so you talk about them in a way like, like, they do and she kind of reminds me all the time. She's like, you got to kick it down a little bit. You know, because even him is a Andrew, you know, and for those of us who don't know Andrew Jack by his first name on Lee, it's a great. Andrew Jack thing. The best bodybuilders in the world. You're having you're telling jokes with him in the middle of your workouts. That's not a normal thing for the rest of his. Exactly. Exactly. So great episode. And I'm excited to see. And I'm very curious on that Jordan slash Brett thing now. It's in my mind. Yeah. And I'm calling it right now. Right is my dark horse for the Olympia. I am putting my putting my put it on the line right now. Yeah. Oh, I see it. So let me say it. Yep. I think that's a very safe dark horse because he was not last year. And like you said, I haven't seen him in years. So I think it'll be, I would love to see him spring up there like Martin did. Yeah. That'd be awesome. I've got stories about him too, from guys who told me like, you know, John Meadows and Scott Stevenson trained with him before I knew who he was. And this is before he turned pro and that he was like outpacing both of them in legs back when they were strong. Like he, the first thing he told me, the first thing they told me was like, oh, Brett is incredibly strong. And you know, I saw him turn pro. He competed against one of my guys in classic at the kitchen. Your nationals, they both got their pro cards. He took, he got the overall though beat my guy. But he had to pair down so much to be in classic. I believe that was his first and only time doing the division. And they was like, now, scared us. I'm putting not like that. He just ate a steak, you know, and then he was. It opened five. On one on measured steak. He was the first guy to transition from classic to open run. Everyone's talking about earth. I'm like, dude, he did that years ago. Not get off. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Awesome. Yeah. It's going to be sick to see. So this is the first Olympia guys in a long time that I'm actually like counting down. I cannot wait to see what everyone brings. And and and actually feeling like I don't know what's going to happen. Minus, I'm pretty sure that Samson's going to bring something scary. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I just expected. Yeah, especially after what you guys were just saying, I didn't see that guest posing. But if he's looking depleted, you know what I mean? I he looked great. It was like a real, but yeah, but just slightly flattery like, like, sucked in. Like he sucked in. Yeah. We don't have to worry about him being full enough around enough. Like, you know what I'm saying? Like he's going to have those things. And again, he was on stage by himself. So who knows if you put other guys beside him, you've been like, oh, he's still bigger. But the coin is for him. You're saying it. It was 24 and Sean. But the thing is what you're saying is it looks like he's he's pulling it in hard. And I think that gets me excited for him. What did that was six weeks out? Yeah. It's going to be scary because that was a week ago right, Ron? Did they think that was up? Yeah. So that's like five or six weeks out. I mean, it'll be interesting. So, but we'll see also I have feel I do feel like a lot of people have been a little more quiet on showing what they look like. So we might start on the surprise point. Yeah. It's exciting. I'm very excited. And you guys know, just I don't know if I said it on the show. Probably did. Emily and I get married Thursday before the Olympia. So I don't know if I actually said that on the show or not. You didn't know. But yeah. So we're a loping. We're doing it all by ourselves. All right. And we're just going to take all the money people spend on weddings and just invest it. I love that idea, man. That's basically what we did. You know, we had it was a little bit more than a a loping. We just had family in the yard, right? Yeah. Yeah. We were in a greenhouse. Yeah. It was like a historic greenhouse. But it was just literally we had six guests all together. And then we went off an awesome steak dinner afterwards. We were very motivated and inspired by Dusty's Dusty and Nikki spontaneous Vegas wedding. I still love how we went to meet you for that illusion of show. And we, we, you know, pull up in the lobby of the show. They got the tickets. We need the tickets to get in or wait in there. Dusty's down and there he's got our tickets. Walk up. Go, hey, great to see you guys because we didn't, you know, just happen to run into them. So, you know, hey, I was going, what'd you guys do today? Like, oh, we go married. Oh. And then they're like, you know, Nikki's at the show. Hey, that's a great night to be in. You know, and that's what it's about. I think that the opposite is like when you have 500 guests and you don't even get a chance to spend the time with the person you love because you're like trying to talk to somebody as Uncle or something that you hardly even know the whole time, you know. Yeah. So we're going to under $1,000. Yeah. And then that too. Yeah. That was like, it was awesome. We're, we're going out. We're going in an hour out of town to a place called Fire Valley, I think. Oh, yeah. And it's like Red Rocks and truly beautiful. And we're going to, they're picking this up in a limo. We're going out there. We're going to marry out a Red Rocks. They take a bunch of cool photos. It was a short little photo shoot, you know, part of the package. And then you get in the limo and they drop you a back off of your hotel and you're done for the day. So we're getting married at noon on Thursday. And uh, and then it's a lamp here weekend. That's cool. Then we all pump in like nothing happened. Yeah. I grabbed the next meal no matter who's turn it is and we move forward. See if, see if the booth on Friday, buddy. I, I am excited. I got, I got my wedding band. I got it size. I got to go pick it up. I don't have any jewelry. I don't even own a watch. Your first piece. Oh, I'm going to have as a wedding band. It's going to drive you a batship for a little bit, but you get used to it. Yeah. The woman goes, what are you looking for in a wedding band? And I go, I want to plain, simple and and tough. Like I don't want to, like I, you know, people get like 24 kerat gold. It's soft and easy. So I want like, I don't even care if it's gold. I look gold. I just want to look gold. It could be fucking steel. I just want a gold ring that I never take off. Frame with it. Fuck and never take it off. And she's like, okay. So sorry, sorry to me. I would. Yeah. That's perfect. I'm so simple. You see, I want my ring the same way I want my burgers. That's what I was thinking. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Classic. I looked, I did, I did the thing everyone suggested. I went through the websites that have like the really cool rings. Like you can get, you know, whiskey barrel and tungsten with a guitar string in it. And that could be your wedding band. And I'm like, these are cool. But that's not me. I'm, I'm so like old school simple. It would, people be weird if I had a fancy ring. I wouldn't talk to anyone. I think I'm around with the fancy ring. That would give me so much material though. I could have had so much fun. I can't do anything. I was like he said, I can't do the bag. He said, if I, if I had a bag, then it'd be like, oh, look around with the purse. He ran in the man bag. It's too late. Now I feel like I missed a man bag. It's been too many years. I can't start a man bag. It's not a little bit with me. You're, you're dumb. It's the man. I can't get the money. I just had a friend say that I was, we went out to dinner. I had money goes, I love that he goes. I can't do it because I'm too old to do that now. But I would of, I'll tell you, it, Victoria is happy that I carry a bag now because this is why I've got all my stuff in one place. So when we get ready to leave the house, I've got my phone, I've got my wallet, I've got my pouches, I've got the keys, like anything we need. It's there. I know what else is another you didn't mention because I know it fits in mind just fine. No, no, no, never. I want you to think it's in there. So I can be like, oh, here it is. It's in there. Take it. But it's in it's sock. Let me get my money out of my sock for you, Mr. Robert. I've got some cash in my sock. Let me just get down and pull my cash out of my sock. You got amazing. Hey, I know how it says. I know exactly. You can't wait to get that money out of your sock for them. Neither can you. Let me give you this money. Don't go. I got a little bit more money in my sock. I don't think you're, but wait, that's the way it works, but wait, there's a war in the way. As they're walking away. There's one way. Help, I got $120. Yeah, yeah, I'm going to really like, I wear a really nice ankle. Let me give it to you. Yeah, you really shouldn't leave without the ankle that I have. It's very, I don't want to be dishonest, Mr. Robert. I haven't given you everything I have. You know, it's really funny when you're like, I hope I get robbed today. You know, and you got that mentality. He does say, I think there are a lot of those that have happened. Dustin can't wait to get larger. That's the way it is. That's why you carry, right? That's why you carry. Sitting at red lights, just itching. You don't do that when you live in the south, Ron, because everyone else is also. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's just a fact. I just always wonder which one they have or two, you know, right? Right. And if it's the car behind you or in front of you, that's going to help you out. Yeah, yeah, there's actually there was a thing. I'll be cautious with my delivery of this, but I think it was in Texas and a guy came into, uh, Robah can be in store and three, oh, yeah, people in there stopped it all the once. Oh, yeah, there's videos. And if that's the way the world operated there would be a lot less crime. You know what I'm saying? I just love it. I was like, not one, not two, but three people handled it all. It was my favorite, my favorite of that genre of video is when there's like an old man in a waffle house or something. And everyone's getting held up in the old man is just eating and doesn't even stop, you know, that type of video. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it comes his term. He just goes, bam. Yeah, that's his eating. Like there's a couple of videos out there. Just these old men that are like, they're not fucking it. They're not getting this. And they don't write back to their coffee, too. Like it's the, it's amazing. I saw a video around there. There was, there was the guy wasn't armed or anything, but a guy was robbing a bar and he comes over and he won guys. The guy takes his wall out hands to him, takes his watch off hands to him, goes or no, guy who's literally still drinking and they guy goes and he goes, no, he wanted to take his phone, right? And he just, he's like, he just won't open back. And he literally puts it back. Stanza continues drinking. The guy goes around the thing, robbing comes back. And he's like, mm, mm. And the dude just finally leaves. He's like, you're not robbing me. And the, the thief was like, you know what? I don't know what this dude's deal is. But I'm a let it slide because I don't want to find out. One more soft cart. It's all around here. You know, literally the guy was like, you could rob everyone here, just not me. I was like, those videos, too, they'll be like a massive violent brawl happening in like the background of a waffle house or something. It's got to be one dude sitting there. Like, not even, not, not taking part. I'm enjoying my food. People all around him. He's seen the battlefield before I promise. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's a Thursday, guys. It's a Thursday. It's a fun. I'm going to fish my coffee. Okay. Well, that was great. I was got constituents together and make a, you know, make a, you know, make a ship episode out of this. Hey. Absolutely. Just a good. We got it. We got it. Yeah. Thanks guys. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes. And remember, I am mutant.com. Go to I am mutant.com. Get your ISO surge. It was hardcore ISO now. Get your get your get your all in, get your mind FK and have get your big greens. Big greens chocolate. Big greens. A chocolate big greens and of course, everyone should get on the gear. So yes, all the gear. Get all the gear you can get all the flavors, alternate them, mix them, stack them, stack the gears, stack the gears, stack the gears, okay. Remember, it's just bodybuilding.

I might have dated a girl in high school just to hit on her mother. I mean, you never knew. Okay. So it's just body building.