because then you see what I'm saying. So, well, so technically, I understand in the real world nobody would care. No. Oh, one part is always like you mother. Our best would. One comment. You guys can't count. Yeah, because yes. Exactly. Exactly. No. Well, you have to some trickery with them out of order. This is trickery. What did you do? It's like a tear-toon move. Okay. So let's drop the number. I'm totally fine. Okay. Actually, it was putting the number in because I didn't want to disappoint you. Yeah, I thought like if I get the number wrong. Look at that. Look at that. That's a communication problem. Yeah. So, Scott, why do you want to take? Any time you want to take work away and make my life easier? Good last. Any other things you want me to drop to say that I do is not doing the whole intro. Yeah. We can just come on like, so as you're breakfast, and not say a word about like what's show their watching or what we've got going on. You know, I'm fine with that. All right. You know, okay. So it's an episode. That's all we know. We've done many before. It's a lot more common. And maybe one day there'll be a big number that we know of and we'll say it. But today's number is not important. How's that? And we've got Dustin Hanchai here. Not a mechanic. And we have Scott McNally our producer wearing the metallic a font true nutrition shirt. Yes. That's a big fan of a texture. This shirt is at that age too, where I've washed it so many times. Actually, when I picked it up today, I was like, this is so soft. It's like that person looks like a real concert shirt. It kind of does. That's going to a concert shirt that you don't want to get rid of. You got this 84. What's the oldest concert shirt you have? Do you have any real concert shirts where you that guy? I never could afford them, honestly, because they were like regular T-shirt to like 12.99 at the time when I was a kid. And then a concert shirt was like 30 bucks. And I'm like, I already spent all my money on this ticket and weed and I said, you know, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So the thing with concert shirts was I bought a few back in the day because I just really wanted to like partake in the whole like buy a concert shirt. Right? Yeah. So I'd go up to the thing and I'd get a double XL because that's all they have. Sometimes if sometimes if you're lucky, if you get there early, they've got some threes and threes and threes because there's a lot of big fat people go to never shows and stuff right. You get those like they'll have a handful of big sizes. But most of the time I go up there, double X is all they have. And you buy it, but it's like an old school gilden. So when you put it on, it doesn't fit. No. And then you just never wear it. Yeah. Yeah. Trilets might concert ship experience. Okay. So I got I put up a question box. Oh, we got to do like share, subscribe. There's a comment. Bring the bell. They would comment with a question. That is, right? Keep it that. We should. We need it. We all wondered why you were doing that as well. All the shit you've been doing, we just didn't know why. Yeah. Why is Ron doing this random stuff? We didn't want any of this. I don't know how it got the name for this show. It's just bodybuilding. We never talk about bodybuilding. Anyways. Did you see we had another comment on that last week? Yeah. It's just body. But you actually never finished answering a question about bodybuilding. Yeah. The one bodybuilding question. That was good. I've read that. I was like, Oh, shit. I think that's good. Yeah. So here's a stage I'm at in my life. I'm not making anybody any promises. That's for I have now. I'm just like, yeah, what you get. I'm here. I'll be here tomorrow too. I'll be here. I'll show up. I'll do my thing. I'll get my stuff done. But I'm not making any promises about extras. Yeah. The on that. Yeah. Actors being like covering the things that the show is about. Right. Anyways. I'll be here. But you were in my phone. Yeah. But you did do a question. Which is why I did not do what? Hmm. I saw Ron had one and I was a little behind the April. Yeah. And I for saw the fact that I would have a battery dilator. So that was it. Do we have questions? Good questions already from you Scott. We have you to some YouTube questions. And also, I wanted to just mention. I saw the morning. I rolled over. We looked at my phone. And then I started scrolling on YouTube. And I saw Jamie the giant. He had it posted a new video. He was like, hey, my trip to Canada. So I didn't watch the whole thing because I was just waking up. But I saw him in his hotel. And he was like, hey, I just got back from West Coast. I had to text Ron to tell him it was such a cool gem. And he said he was like, and I smoked a spliff a few spliffs the other day. He was like, and I've never done that before. And my life. Like a day of traveling. I think I was up for about 32 hours. So I spent the first two days catching up on sleep. And out of few spliffs, I've never, never, never, never smoked weed in my life. But to be honest with you, it's quite nice. In terms of like helping you switch off and sleep at this stage in prep, it's proven a very handy tool to be able to have. And it's legal in Canada. So thank you very much Ron for the hook up. And it's something that we may consider trying to get our hands on a new UK. We will see the laws are a bit different there. But it's a very easily accessible. So we will see. Anyway, I did. I have to ask for you there for this. So it was like, I like the thing is in Vegas. Yes. That's the end. I kind of ruined Jamie the giant. I would like to say we enhanced him. But oh, it's just life. I don't know. It's like you just better. Kind of come out. There's been here where he is in life. Because people who start smoking weed when they're 36, either they really step it up because they're enlightened. Yeah. Or it's just this at the beginning of the end. And then it just comes apart. So we're going to keep a close eye on Jamie because I'm waiting for his wife to call me. He's back in England now. Okay. And I know that he's looking for weed. Okay. I'm going to be like, I don't have to get some of this. It's just for the prep though. And I could tell I'm with her as wife to call me. She's going to call me and be like, what the fuck did you do? He's a fatta flora in spring. Yeah. Yeah. So we got him in Vegas. It was it wasn't on purpose. Okay. Because all that happened was we made a trip to a weed store in Vegas. Yeah. Yeah. Just he and Dustin, my name is our own business. Which by the way, we met a fan in in the weed store. In the weed store. In the weed store. Oh, hell yeah. Be fair, Dustin. Take take full credit, Dustin. He was more your fan. He didn't even he looked at me and he was like, hey, but he was a fan of Dusty. He was like, does he fall to you on IG? And I knew he would be at this weed shop. Um, anyways. So we go the weed shop and the original idea. I don't really know how I got a stray from this was I had handed Ron a hundred dollars because I thought he was going. And Ron bought the weed last time. So I was like a hundred should cover us for three nights. Yeah. Okay. It's then we end up over there. And I was with him. And somehow I spent the maximum out you could buy. And Ron bought your wife. I had more than this. Yeah. Really? Yeah. That's the only thing I want to do. Those three of those two of those and they're like, oh, you're at your limit. You can't buy anymore than that. He's like, oh, I guess I'm done shopping. I didn't know the head of the man. And then Ron bought more. So then the second morning, the morning after James is like, oh, I just not sleep in great. And I was like, oh. We could help you with that. And later we didn't know pressure. Of course. Yeah. Pressure later that night. He was like, so you guys are going to smoke some weed. And I was like, sure, come outside. And we split one joint. That's it. Right. I want to take joint to. It was one of those nice big store. Yeah. But I'm going to, you know. And this is like after my time. Like smoke a joint when I smoked weed like in 93 was different. We didn't like then this is like weed today. Oh, the. What was that? You've been fused. No, so this is also what's he doing. He's joined. Good guy. What does that like going to be? 4% THC. Well, it's like one of those fancy joints where it's like dipped in kiff and, you know, the fucking spray with hash oil and dip it in in fucking. Kiff and it's like a fancy joint. It's got like power stuck to the outside of it because it's all like the super strong way after my time. Way after my time. Oh, yeah. So we get we got we just some of that and then I handed him an extra run because we were going to go out and have a cheat meal. And as we're leaving, I think Ron looked at me and he goes, I think he's going to smoke that before we get back because he had said he was going to wait. And I was like, oh, yeah, he is. And sure shit we're leaving. We're leaving the restaurant and we get a picture of him in the backyard with the joint in his mouth. What did he say? That's something I love the shit or something. I'm going to get some sleep. Yeah. So it's so, it's so, it's better. It's better. So it gets better though. You forget about there's another stage to this story where he decides he's going to get his own. Uh, okay. Okay. Which we have more than enough. Yeah. But Jamie is a guy much like honestly Ron and myself. He wants to make sure the level is even. Absolutely. So he has a gentleman. I'm not going to name anyone's name. Because that would be not acceptable. But I will say that his name's say, Gated Jennifer Lopez. And he is in the bodybuilding arena. And he was the first ever. Mr. Olympia in the. Men's physique division. Anyways. You can't figure out that that's Mark Anthony that you're an idiot. Um, so it all got. Mark, Mark, Anthony comes and gets Jamie to take him shopping. And loads of up with everything including animals. Jamie. So now Jamie's got animals. We're like, how are like two days into the trip already? Oh, well, the guy is like three days left. Yeah. He comes back with a shopping bag. Holy shit. Like how much is in there? And he's like, oh, I got all these gummies. Yeah. I got all these joints. And I got all this. And I'm going to say, oh my god. Yeah. That's that's it. So somehow. I got blamed for this. Ronald and I get blamed for this. I feel I didn't feel like no one. We're losing your sound. Yeah, sounds going weird for me to hear. And then Jamie decides that last night at the night that he got his own. Yeah. Yeah. So he has 10 milligrams gummies. And one of the bosses from Newton was like. Tom not to do gummies. He's just getting started. Yeah. And we're so we all agreed that we wouldn't. And then I forgot. Like five minutes later. So he's like, yeah, I think I'd probably just take like two of these. I would take the ray. I was like, oh, they was only 30. So then they convinced Jamie to do two. Okay. At that point. And then the next morning, Jamie comes. He looks fully rest. I go, I'm going to gummies you have because three. I like that smell boy. And he's a happier guy now. So again, Ronald and I are heroes is the moral of the story. And we gave money to a local business multiple times. And he gets to Canada. And he gives me, you know, you got to go to the grocery store and get his groceries. He's got a little kitchen up by the gym. Yeah. You know, get those groceries and stuff. And of course, I go over there to see him. Make sure he's all right. And he's got all his groceries and he's got some blond saw ready. He stopped at the little store by the groceries picked up some blond. So he's off. He's off all on his own now. I have no more responsibility for him. He is he's his own man. You got some good training in though. Well, he was my husband. Oh, that. Richard did have great training because of it because he slept well. Yeah. Okay. You two questions. We got some YouTube questions. I have a handful here. And we did have a weed question. So we'll have to get to that one. Probably. Without one. Let's see. If I already have a lot of questions. Let's just lead with that one. All right. Let me see which one this is. Okay. Here we go. Ron and Dusty tell us about the best experiences you've ever had on adibles. And the worst experiences you've had on adibles could be the same day, even. Never know. I've had so I only had. I had two times where I ate weed. And I was like, you know, pretty like messed up. I haven't taken that many adibles. I've had 10 milligrams. I'd say the best experience I ever had on adibles. How's this? The best was I took a 10 milligrams adible one time. And I went to arm brist gym and trained back. And I had a killer workout. And it did some extra volume because he had all these machines on to try and of course. I filled it. Yeah. And I, you know, rode the big blue and orange dumbbell. Did dumbbell rows of the big blue and orange dumbbell. I've done for Broncos dumbbell. And I fucking did bent rows. And I used some, I can play low to machines. I just had a killer back workout. And I remember that was like, I think that might have been the first time I'd taken an edible like in decades too, like a long time. So it was like a good like, oh, that was that was good. You know, because it was a real pleasant experience. It was only 10 milligrams. So it was like, you know, my music sounded awesome. It was like, it was good. The worst was always was also still like cool. And I've told that story before. So I won't tell the whole thing. But I think it was like 96. Ninety, no, a bit of like 97. I went to a Nirvana cover band in Australia. And I ate three chocolate chip cookies at my buddy made. But I was out of the room when he told everyone just have one at the most. And I eat three of them. And I was on my third cookie. And he's, yeah, we were in his house. And I was on my third cookie. And he looked at me and he goes, how many cookies did you eat? And I go, this is my third one. He's like, stop, stop. And I was like, oh, and he's like, these are really strong. And then I was so fucked up at that shop. I was like melted into the wall. I couldn't even fucking, I was just mesmerized with how good the band was. Like they were incredible. And I remember thinking like they were perfect. They even looked perfect. The guitar player was left handed and everything. So it was just, they put on a great show. The bass player was like six foot four. So it was just perfect. Yeah. And I remember just being so fucking high that show on John just cookies. I didn't smoke any weed or anything, just totally normal. But I just ate those cookies. And then that scared me off edibles for a long time. That's why I didn't do them for so long. And then I had the 10 milligram Denver experience. So yeah, those are kind of my, I don't know. That's all I got. I'm not a big edible guy. If I ever take edibles, it's to like sleep on a plane or go to bed. But that's rare. Right. I was just saying, I don't have a good edible story because my first experience was bad. So after the after I got signed with mutant, I had the issue with my neck where I didn't know it was my neck. I thought it was my shoulder at the time. And I was on some anti inflammatory pain, whatever. And a friend of mine suggested that. So he gave me, which was probably 30 milligrams down high and sight. He's like, just take these and we're at lunch. I took them. And I won't go with the long story. But let's just say it was about eight hours to the point that I was worried that I might have fried my brain. Like I actually had like a conversation with myself like if I wake up tomorrow and I'm still like this, I'm fucked. Like, did I? Because it was one of the things with time was, time was standing still. Yeah. Like I told Ron the story when we were in Vegas. But like I laid down and I had told Abby on. I said, I'm going to come in the I'm just going to lay down for a bit. And like hours had passed. So I came in the kitchen and my case, sorry. I don't want you to worry. I know I've been laying down for a long time. So I was like, it's been seven minutes. Oh shit. So yeah. No, no good story though. Because after that, you don't do those anymore. And then just like Ron, I started using later for sleep. Right before bed. That's it. Like even Jamie had about anything else. What do you mean just just like Ron, I started eating for sleep. Make it sound like I used them for sleep. Dilly, we're on. It's a very, very, very sleep. Ron does it every day. Like 40 miles. I heard it. Honestly, I think I've taken animals like 15 times in my entire life. Okay. Yeah. So there was people also too. 13. We're just sleep. Thus. That's just also let's get one more thing. I have so many people that talk to me. They're like, you know, people who like smoke weed all day long. Yeah. Yeah. They're like, oh yeah. You know, what do you like to smoke? I've had one guy. He's like, what do you like to smoke in the morning? I'm going to make it in the morning. Like I get lots of shit to do. Like I have a big coffee in the morning. Like, I'm not like a fucking, people think I'm a chronic. Because I like openly talk about how much I love weed. People make comments. I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, if I'm on my bike. Oh, no. I'm on my bike. I haven't smoked weed at all that day because I want to stay clear headed for the bike. If I'm, you know, train legs or something, no way. Maybe arms. But like maybe, you know, maybe arms or show. I do have a hoot off the pen sometimes for the show there. It makes people happy to know that. But not all the time. There's lots of shows where I haven't had any hoots off the pen. You know, that's what he's not as good. There was a story. There was a story. It was here in Detroit. It was, sorry, one quick thing. When we have like a guest on, I'm rarely ever. Because they just, I want to make sure I'm good for the guest. You know, I don't care about you guys. I can side there. Yeah, it's very show. Perfect. There was this. There was this. This couple that one of them was a cop. He got some, they didn't smoke weed. It was here in Detroit. But it was a national news story. He took some weed home from the evidence locker. And his wife made cookies or brownies out of it. Did you hear the story? Oh, my God. I heard the clip. Yeah. Yeah. He's like, we're dying. We're dead. Yeah. Yeah. Time is moving. Really, really, really, really, really, really slowly. Time is going by really, really, really, really slow. It's really, really, really, really slow. It's really, really, really slow. But then he also thought he was like, hey, do you have the score of the Red Weans game? At one point. Yeah. He's a good woman. He made it. Yeah. Made it. The 911 call. By the way, what's the story of the game? She made brownies. And I think we're dead. Yeah. Think we're dying. Yeah. It was good. It was the story of the game. All right. Good stuff. I know we got more much stuff. Remember the news anchors were laughing their asses off at that one when they showed the clip? I didn't see that part. I just heard the clip. And then they used it so many times to make different videos. And anime videos and stuff with the audio with the audio. There's a video. It's like KSX, news, oh, Spokane. Like it's like a local news. There's two news anchors and they're giggling. They're like, we got a funny story out of this. Right. And then when they cut back to them, they're just killing themselves. Like they're just good. All right. Love the podcast guys. Great information in last question. If you get a chance to answer. Is it realistic to try and make the jump from light heavies to heavies at 35 years old? I've been consistently training for seven to eight years and in competing seriously for four now. Thanks for watching Mitch. Well, I mean, you don't want to say it's not. I mean, I don't know enough about the guy to really give my opinion. Like if he's got, you know, very mediocre genetics. And he's, you know, a hundred and ninety two pounds on stage. And he has condition could still be better. Then I would say there's so much room in the light heavy class that, you know, it's probably not going to happen in the near future, you know. But if he's one of those guys that's like, you know, I say he's been training seven eight years. I mean, who knows? Maybe he's completely fucking blown up and he's still blowing up. Like I don't know. It's hard to say, you know, if he's one ninety eight and he's been forcing himself into light heavies. Then yeah, you could be a heavyweight, you know, it's just not quite enough info, but a lot of guys, the jump from light heavy to heavy. So, you know, think of the average height of most guys. What is, what is average height? Is it five nine? Is that actually mathematically the average height? Five. I would guess five nine. But yeah. Because I feel like I'm not going to have some more. I think five five eight nine. I think five eight five nine is the average height of a male. I mean, the point is on a mark this time. Yes, five wait. What is ASMR? Is that what it is? Does he's going to do some ASMR? This is five six. This is just like the random generic Google answer. It says human. Yeah. Just as just for humans, so across the world, not just the US. We need to go. That's a female. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, human males, five six human females, five two. But I'm thinking that there's some countries where people are really short, so they're going to bring our average is down, you know? Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, you know, let's just say five nine. Whatever. Five eight five nine. Five nine. Five nine in the US. There you go. Oh, okay. Five nine. So, it's just five nine. So, the most guys who fit into that five eight five nine category. Yeah. To be a heavyweight, like 200, you know, 200 to 220, that's like, you know, a good heavyweight. You can make the jump to the class and be successful. Those are like the guys with the better genes and, you know, usually taking the good drugs, blah, blah. That's sort of stuff. You know what I mean? Like, most guys that are five eight, light heavies pretty big for them by the time they're guided down. It's, you know, a lot of guys fall into that category. I know some really great bodybuilders that are light heavy weights at that height and they're really good. So, you know, they want to get to heavyweight because they need a bit more size, but I'm just saying that's a, you know, that's a big jump. Yeah. I agree everything you said. My answer is even more simple. You need to get better. So, just progress. Let it take you where it takes you. And like Ron said, maybe you put on seven pounds, but come in four pounds harder. Yeah. And only gain three pounds and you're still light heavy. So, I think that too many people, like, can this happen? I don't really like to worry about the finish line. Just head and that direction and you'll find out because you love bodybuilding. You're only 35 and we'll see. There's so many, like you said, there's things that you don't know the answer to, but if you have to drastically change your drugs or, you know, and start getting risky or, you know, blowing out your food, which you've already been eating a ton, that's probably not in the card's view. So, all I suggest is try to be better every year. And we'll see, you know, because I really do think, like you said, Ron, I've had a few people that I've taken on, where when they came to me, they were doing so many things wrong. And they were like, a good heavy. And I'm like, give me a year. And they're 242 the next year in grand. And all you did was tweak little things, so they're just genetically so good. And they were just making a lot of mistakes. Yeah. You know, and on the flip, I've had people that are just perfect. And I'm like, if we could just put on three pounds this year. Like, I'd be ecstatic, you know, so it depends on which camp you belong to. And even if you could be like a perfect, say like you came in at 197, right? And then you gained and you were perfect at that weight. If you came in at like 205 a year and a half later, and you were just as good, I don't care, compete in heavies, enjoy it, get in there. Who knows what you'll get out of it, you know? You could still do well, right? Even though, I mean, you're going to be giving up a lot of weight, you know? You could still do just as well. Yeah. You're doing it on that level. You're shooting for the overall anyways. Yeah. I mean, that's what a lot of the guys that I train with are at that level. Winding is only winning the whole show. So if they lose to the heavyweight, because they're 204, they're going to lose them at 198. Yeah. So it's fine. You know what I mean? So I don't really like to worry about those, because you are right. I didn't even think about that. A lot of people say, well, if you're not 220, you're not a heavyweight, I'm like, now that's not true. Yeah. You know, you can be alive to get an 5-8-2-5 in your freak. Well, look at what happened. Look at Diddishak at the Toronto Pro and last December when he turned pro. He was literally 199. No shit. And he won the heavy weights and overall. Easily. Huh. You know? So it's incredible. And then everyone was, and then the next day, David Henry asked him backstage, or stand right there. He was, how did you make weight for 2012? Because David Henry didn't know me, because where did you come from? And Steve goes yesterday. And he goes, oh, yeah. Right. Because like most people are like, you know, who are you right? And he's like, I'm the new pro that just turned pro yesterday, right? Yeah. And then David Henry goes, how did you make weight? And he's like, dude, I'm going to pay 200 pounds. That says a lot when Dave Henry can't tell. You know, it's all about illusion. You know, the illusion just can't be. You can't forget how important the illusion is. And we get fixed on numbers and weight classes and all that. But at the end of the day, it's like, how do you look? Yeah. You know? All right. Get another one here. Luki. He says, um, another great one. I love insights into how it works behind the scenes. Question. With so many athletes prepping and traveling all over the place. Jamie from the UK. How do the athletes, or you in the past? Handle your gear protocol will they be supplied with air quotes by the others living in that area. Curious about it. But I totally understand if you can't talk about it. That things for sharing your stories all the best from Austria. All, all I'll say is, um, you got to have friends in low places. Right? And, uh, and plan ahead plan ahead. You know, plan ahead. That's all I could say plan ahead and, and, you know, Helps to have a goal where I've had both. I've had times where I was gone for five days. And I, I don't overanalyze the exact day. I take a shot. So when we had that was traveling. Yeah. Like when we would go back in the day for five days to England, I'd take a shot the morning on my flight. And then I'd take shots like at home. I didn't bother. Yeah. Yeah. When I did like, I did a long-term stint in, um, in, uh, Australia, one year where we're gone for three weeks. And I had friends that would just bring me literally a loaded two on a kilogram shot of test. Because I was on TRT, but I didn't really want to fuck my levels up. So in different towns, so I'm just bringing me a shot and I'd take it and move on. I knew them. I knew them. It was good. So I never even saw the bottle. So there's, um, yeah. So when you're talking about just normal living, like quite often you just, just go, just go do the trip. Don't even worry about it. I, I never ever worried about any of that stuff when I did all that traveling with me. And I just front loaded. Don't maybe took an extra shot of test before we left or something. And, um, and then just just got through the five, six day trip. But, um, if someone's like, you know, four weeks out from a show, five weeks out from a show or something, and they're heavily prepping, and they're going for like a guest appearance or something. And then you can, you can bet they've just, you know, called a friend ahead of time and, you know, someone's coming over to their hotel room and sort them out. You know, same thing we do with weed. Anyways. Yeah. Just like rock stars back in the day. What's, what's, what's, bidget? Bid, no, bid, bid, bid, e t says, but Jerry. But, oh, a bidet. Oh, does, is there, I've never, okay, so I've never used a bidet. Apparently I don't know how to spell bidet either. But Jerry says does Ron use a bidet like all the other Canadians do? Or is he more, I mean, all the other Canadians? Yeah, I was really confused by that. I was like, is this a brand of something? I've never seen a bidet in Canada in my entire life. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. They answered that question. So, I've really, I've really, I've really placed, I saw, the only places I saw bidets were, I've been in some like really fancy houses where they had a bidet. Yeah. And I stayed in a couple fancy hotels where they had bidets. I don't even remember if they were in Canada or Europe. I think there were somewhere else. And, yeah, I didn't see them here in Canada. I don't know where they got that from. In Dearborn, which is the Arab capital of the United States basically. I've been in bathrooms at restaurants where I've seen, you know that, you know, at the sink in the kitchen, they have that hose that you wash, you know, pull the hose out, wash your dishes. I've seen one of those literally sitting next to the toilet, like connected to the toilet, basically. So, that's interesting because I, yeah. Yeah, I've been in, that's funny that you mentioned that because I've been in a couple houses that were owned by Arabs. And I rented a condo when we first moved here. I rented a condo before we bought this one. I rented a condo and our landlord was the person who owned it was Arab. And it had a hose, right by the toilet. And I was like, oh, interesting, you know what I mean? So that was like, you washed the dishes in the bathroom. What I used to eat is it for? I used to take it and I'd fucking hose the toilet down if I left some skid marks, you know? Just give it up. There you go. Good for cleaning it up. No washing. Yeah, it's power. It's power. I thought I worked pretty good. Yeah. It does make sense. Yeah. Although I will say this, I mean, that whole concept seems like it would be a cleaner situation than just taking some rough paper and rubbing it on your ass. Oh, you don't use water. That's why you kind of have you got to have the, well, you, yeah, well, I was finished with a wet wipe. You got to finish with a wet wipe. You know, I wipe the whole time. I only need to have the paper. There you go, guys. That's a serious expensive. It's a protein. I will give up other things in life. Every time Dusty shit, he's been scored all the way. I'll use 10 wet wipes every time I shit. Go through a pack. No, but think about every time you get a ghost shit, you just say $4. You could reuse that wipe. It didn't actually do anything. Never mind. Okay. Eric asks us a question for next time. What is the most unorthodox thing you did to improve your physique for or at least thought it would be? Could be training nutrition supplements, et cetera. The most, or unorthodox thing. Hmm. I don't know how unorthodox it is, but I remember, I remember, I felt like my glutes weren't coming in one year. And as Sito was like, let's pull your post workout carbs. So, like, I didn't have very many carbs, they left. And, you know, I only had like a bit in my breakfast, I think, and maybe a little bit post workout or something. Yeah. And he's like, let's put those carbs pre-workout and just use them to train and then don't eat any carbs after for the next three meals and go to bed with no carbs. And like, everyone's so scared to shrink, right? Like, oh, no, post workout carbs. I'm not going to replenish my glycogen and all that stuff. But when you're in a massive deficit anyways, it almost felt like it kept me in fat burning, like the post workout carbs were maybe kicking me out of like fat burn, you know? So, I train and eat like chicken and vegetables. And I remember the first time he did it with me. I remember the first week, I was like, holy shit, I like changed. So, it's like something I do with people sometimes. If they're on low carbs and they like to have some post workout, sometimes I'll just take it out. Move it pre, have them burn it up while they're training and then just go literally no carbs post workout for like three meals. I know everyone's always scared to shrink it. But sometimes when you're in prep, you just need to like lean into things a little bit. Question. So, let me clear this up because I'm not completely sure. Are you saying like maybe you had like a cup of rice, pre workout, a cup of rice post workout and then he changed it so that you had that cup of rice, cup of rice pre and post? I mean, the two cups pre workout or you don't have any carbs. I know, it wouldn't have been the equal amount of carbs. He might have just like gone like a cup and a half pre and then none post. Like I said, I mean, it's tilted like lean into it. Yeah, yeah. I use that term a lot, leaning into it, you know, whatever you're doing, just dial it up a bit. Yeah. You don't necessarily need to make massive changes, but hey, pull that post workout cartwheel out for a week. See what happens. You know, I actually remember making a note come to think of it that by just eating chicken and veg post workout and not having carbs post workout, I felt like I wasn't that hungry for the rest of the night. And I don't know if that's like, you know, when you're dieting really hard and you have that small card meal, like, really hits you. I need like want more carbs. I don't know if that's maybe part of it. So I did the, I got it from John Meadows actually, but I started with my night time cardio. I purposely pushing it and some of my blood sugar dropped. Yeah. And then going home and not eating and going to bed. He had something he talked about once. And I was like, yeah. And he talked about it. But I actually, I reached out to him. I was like, you know, is this something? And he goes, because I know it sounds weird, he goes, but I got, because it was when he was trying to really make weight at one point. He was really worked. And I was like, all right, so we'll see. So on the nights that I was like, and I wouldn't say I do endless, but at that point my carbs are so low. And they were first thing in the morning. So like, I would just kind of push if it didn't happen. And I was done with the cardio just go home. But sometimes it would happen. And you're got like 10 minutes left. I would push through the rest of the cardio. Have to sit on the machine for five or so minutes to like get my head straight. Drive home and then just go to bed. And could be placebo, but I swore after a time on my attacks from him like holy shit. Like again, I'm not saying it's magic, but it was like you said one, you just lean into it. You do a little more. You know, or if I feel, you know, when you're feeling like a little, like you're feeling that come on. And I'd look and I was supposed to do like 30 minutes or 35 minutes. When I'm at like 32, I'd be like, I'm just going to go until it hits. So that might be at 40 and I'd go, well, let's just go. And it was pretty not so I think also, and this is the part that I enjoy is I was just kind of like those kind of things because you're like, There's something wrong with you. If you think that this is the good route to go. And I enjoy that because everyone else was better than me. So it was like I had to have something in my bag of tricks because it sure is how wasn't genetics, muscle, shape, size, proportion, or any of those things. I never tried it. I never tried it, but I was always fascinated with the concept of it's very similar. It's exactly the same, but just augmented. The guys that would take like two-eye use of insulin. Yeah. Then do their cardio and then go to bed with no carbs. Good God. So it's like, so the two-eye use do that's number one-eye, yeah, yeah, no wall. These are guys who have already know what they're doing, but it might only be one-eye you like. It was that tiny amount of insulin. It was just enough insulin so they would drop and Glucogon would get released. You know what I mean? Like if your blood sugar gets low enough then you get to your Glucogon starts pumping out while you're doing your cardio and that's very light, like polypolic. You burn fat. Glucogon dominant environment. You burn more fat. So you're getting into a fat burning state and a Glucogon dominant state. And then you're going to bed. So it was like the same sort of idea, but just with a little bit of insulin to like speed it up. Maybe you were doing 30 minutes of cardio, but to it two units and Slinial and they need fucking 15 minutes of cardio. Maybe I don't know. So, but yeah, it always thought it was interesting, you know? Just a little too chaotic for me to be into. I've seen people do that even just like for their like am-fasted cardio, you know, couple one-two IU for that. And then they feed obviously after, you know? Yeah. I did something weird one time. Well, more than one time. We did a lot of weird stuff about it. Wait, wait, wait, wait. That's a lie. I did something no by my time. I've never heard people doing before. And I've never been a fan of like, sonas, anything like that. And I've never thought like, oh yeah, you need to sit in a sona to lose fat, you know? That kind of thing. But I got to this point in a contest prep. And mind you. So I was competing at like 195ish and then took 18 months to go. And then I came back and I was like, you know what? I need to get leaner. And I'm just going to get as lean as I, I think can. And I don't care if I could lose muscle. And I did, I ended up losing muscle. I dieted down to, I stepped on stage at 1801. The next contest. I've actually, I've got a picture here. I was showing to you guys. Boom, this is me. 1801 that year. Legs were depleted mostly. But I was pretty lean. Like I didn't have any fat left on my body at all that year, you know? And the thing that I did was just just part of it was, you know, you sweat a lot at night on trend. And I started like, as you guys said, lean into that. So I said, I can't I wonder what would happen if I like just put my electric blanket on me. Just on low. And I started sleeping with electric blanket and I wake up in the middle of the night sweating. So I, I had these towels and put towels down like beach towels on the bed. And I sleep with the electric blanket and wake up like three hours later soaked. And I'm like, oh, I got to change the towels, change the towels, put the blanket back on. I do that all night long for like a month straight. You're a machine. And I just got like hot like crazy. You're crazy. You're looking, you know? And I do think that there was something to it because like I got fucking nutty. It was crazy looking. I never had any clients do that by the way, but you know, whatever it was, it was just like this thing in my hat. I was like, I'm going to do this and I did. And it was, it was an interesting experience. So that was my, my weird thing. Sometimes the things talk you should listen sometimes. Sometimes, don't them. No, sometimes drink some fluid. Go to bed. Yeah, on the opposite end of the spectrum. I remember for the Albert is one year. Yeah. One the show. 99. It was my poverty prep. What I was going to college. But I was doing my cardio at like six in the morning. And I was walking outside because I didn't have what I had to drive to the jam. And it was like minus fucking 20 Celsius. So it had to warm my car up. Then go to the jam and it would have been a big production. So I just walked outside. And it was winter time because I started my prep in February. So it was minus 20. There were days when it was minus 30 for fucksakes. Which I don't know what that is to an American. But minus 40 is minus 40. So yeah. So minus 40 is the same as minus 40 Celsius. And it would be like minus 30 Celsius. So really fucking cold. And I would just put my winter jacket and my two can my gloves on. And I would just go outside and walk around the frozen lake by the house. And I would be fucking freezing cold when I left the house. Like as soon as I got outside, it'd be the coldy fuck. And by the time I got about halfway around the lake, I'd be pretty warm. And I wasn't dressed for the weather. I was using the speed of my walking to like warm me up. And I remember just thinking like how effective my cardio was. Like it was just that was just falling off me. And you know they say if you really want to like generate thermogenesis. You know, fuck it. We should sit in fridges all day long. You know, shiver. Shit, you know, sitting fridges and shiver and stuff like that. So I was, you know, maybe it was like accident a cold therapy. I didn't mean to be doing it. But I was doing like cold therapy cardio, you know. No, is it just be frozen when I got back like fucking fingers were blue, you know. So I'd shiver while I was making my breakfast. I'd still be shivering and oh god. It's just yeah. Yeah, it's good. For all Americans, every Europeans, two equals bini. I was forward. I was wondering if we should. I said it. I knew it. I was like, I don't know that. Dude, you're googling. They've stopped everything. I'm donating their annoyed still. And now you've got to come with a foreign word. Yeah, it's terrible. So we got days and tubes. The days and tubes. Question for the next pod. Do you feel high volume and low volume physique are different and how? Oh, no. I think that high intensity physique's look different. And what I mean by that is people who train hard as fuck. Because Jay Cutler trained hardest fuck in high volume. Ronnie Coleman trained hardest fuck in low volume high consistency. Because it was actually high volume at the end of it. Because he trained back thickness. Turned back. Yeah, twice a week. Dorian trained high intensity. The true meaning of it. And they all look like granite and or built like Richard houses. Yeah. I still think, you know, intensity of effort is. The most important factor in the gym with obviously. You have to direct your energy in the correct way with form and executioner. You just wind up, you know. Blowing everything. But, you know, I think intensity is the the difference maker. And I think that all the other stuff is just like. Tweaking of principles and distribution of effort, you know. And like some guys might put a little more effort into the prep sets. And then less and then don't don't do for straps, but they do more total sets. It's just, you know, it's all about workload at the end of the day and recovery. It comes down to what I've said this before in the show, but for those who haven't seen the. Many other episodes because we're no longer listening to numbers that we've done. Chris, the seat of I reached out to him when we first started. And I said, do you have any preference to what style of training I do? And he said, yes, I want you to train fucking hard. And that was the only answer I needed because that is the answer. So I think a lot of people get really caught up. Same thing like because I'm, you know, kind of the the last poster boy of DC training that worked under Dante. A lot of people come to me in the last thing is the only way you'll train me DC and I'm like. 85 to 90 percent of my clients cannot train that way. Doesn't work for them. Or they're not ready for it. So training hard is the magic. I also love when people say that Jay used to train lights. Well, he trained light in a lot of volume. I'm like, are you out of your mind that I've seen him in climb 405 multiple times? I've seen Ben Rho 405 multiple times like light in what what are you talking about? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. He wasn't doing singles. No, but you know, it just it's funny when people say that because they just decide that it had to be. And I'm like, I've seen it with my eyes in front of me. Yeah, like you've never trained light. Yeah, and he trained hard to tell him that actually Jay trained a lot like you were on like fast. Huh, like you were sad. What brief that? And then throw a plate on a short break and then go again. And that's the other thing. That's what made you know, 315 405 on a Smith heavy because I'm like, no, the dude waited like 63 seconds between sets. I mean, yeah, wow. That's heavy as hell. 315. Dude, I mean, if you're a 500 pound squater, then do 315 way 60 seconds do it again. Wait, say seconds do it again. Tell me that doesn't start to feel heavy. Yeah, it's brutal. Yeah, you know. Yeah. All right. Got a few more here. All right. So question for the next show. I know it's diet that will dictate if you're cutting or ballking and not the P. E. D's. But I do believe that some are just better than others for putting on mass or cutting. That being said, I'm competing in physique and we'll start a cycle for ballking with test E and P. P and EQ. He says front load. So how much beneficial, how beneficial would it be to stack trend on a bulk cycle, which already has the base compounds and how much more effective if at all is stacking 4 5 6 compounds on average doses instead of 1 to 3 compounds max throughout the cycle. I haven't thought that much about bodybuilding my entire career. That's like, yeah. Well, first of all, I don't take anyone at all. Period should ever use trend unless they're prepping for a show and they're very serious. That's my take on trend. So no, not off season. I wouldn't use it in off season. I never once used it in the off season or to bulk or anything like that. And it's something you save for shows because you shouldn't be taking it for very long and you should try to take as little of it as possible. That's my take on trend. And so no to the off season. And you're already on plenty of gear if you're on 3 things in the off season and you're doing men's physique. You know, in men's physique, you should be able to build that type of physique with, you know, a lot less drugs than a lot less drugs than bodybuilding for sure, you know, and you shouldn't need these big stacks for that sort of stuff. You know, there's too many guisements physique that have the genetics to do it that are on hardly anything. Yeah. You know, that's my, I see some of these men, some of that guys that are like almost nanny, like they're, I know who they are. You know, there's some like top level guys that I've talked to and they're like, oh, it is like, do like, 250 tests and 300 master on and they're fucking, they look like super heavy weights and board shorts. You know, I was competing, I talked about this, how I feel like men's physique is stolen a lot of the supers because of the structure, right? But, um, and you're competing against those guys, your offseason cycle shouldn't have to be fucking two grams of shit. It's just, um, that's my take. I don't know, does you? I mean, I don't know what I'm talking about. It's here so you, you, you covered it for me. I mean, I mean, my men's physique, it's, it's all divisions. Like, yeah, I think that, you know, I was kidding with my remark, but like, I think we, a lot of us overthink by building in general, but the, the, overthink the things that are, the, the, uh, the smallest details and then underthink the others. Like, rather than focusing that much, I'd be like, okay, you've got your three drugs. Those are fine. It looks like you're planning on front loading the EQ and getting off because you know, you shouldn't be on too long. Great. Now let's get obsessive about the training. Let's get obsessive about the rest. Let's get obsessive about the supplements that will help that recovery beyond the drugs, because if you're a billionaire and you are given the jacks that none of these drugs will hurt you, I still wouldn't put you on like five or six drugs the time. So it's not, I'm not even saying that from a stance of health. I'm saying it really won't be better. Yeah. And if you're, you know, foods such a big deal, like I know these numbers don't matter, but just for sake of argument, I had a client that I took on and he, he was doing 400 tests a week with 500 pre-mo and 50 out of our day. That's what he was doing and he was on that for like two months and he came to me and he was like 1, 99, 1, 98, 200, like his weight was around there. And I said, well, first of all, get off the DHT's because we want, you know, just just get off all that, just take the test. So he goes down to just the test and it's been a couple months now and he's two-twelf. Nice. So it's food. The Balkan cycle, people think about how many drugs can they stack during their Balkan cycle, but, you know, you got to, you got to eat to make the scale move, too, you know. So keep that in mind. Yeah. I found out what I was doing. It's a huge way higher, right? That's a whole point. It's food went up like way up. When I used to take higher doses, I think the attack it had on my body made it harder to eat because you're essentially, you know, depending on what you're doing, like, I had to get rid of orals and things like that. I know you could take them before bed. But I just found anything that affected my eating, I throw away because that caused more damage than good. You know, so everything should go back to what can I do that allows me to eat as much as possible and rat, as much as possible. It's like the trending. If it's affecting or sleep, it's not a good trade. Surely not in the off season. And I'm not as anti as Ron. I've had people take training off season, but short bass and they're not using a ton in pre-condition or they've got two years of off season. But definitely something where if it was affecting their sleep, I'd be like, okay, we don't need it's not magic. We'll do something else, you know. So, yeah, four or five or six things. If nothing else, it just seems like a pain in the ass to take your shots. They got one more. As Dusty would say, we have a very important question here. Oh, yes. Fuck Mary Kill. Hot sauce. So easy. Mustard of any kind. BBQ sauce. And go. Mustard is Satan's scene. Fuck mustard. Kill mustard. I've never, how's this? I've never once used mustard on anything I've ever eaten on purpose. I accidentally ate mustard a couple times and I was like, fuck. So he means Kill mustard for the record. Oh, must. Yeah. I would Mary Hot Sauce. And then I would fuck BBQ sauce like as often as I could and try not to let hot sauce know about it. Well, you're not riding Coleman. You can't get away with whatever you're so bossy around and still look. Well, I don't like this. I don't like this. I'm not going to make. Yeah. I don't agree with that either. They have that GQ in the masterpiece is the best. You ever have that is the GQ's barbecue sauce. It's like made with Splenda or something. It's good. Yeah. Solid. Um, it's solid for sure. But so perfect. I have a funny tail. I was in the states somewhere. I can't remember if it was Illinois or where the fuck I was. And I was at a fast food joint. And I asked, I think I ordered like a chicken burger. I can't remember which one it was because you got all those ones down there that we don't have. Right? Like that ends now. It's in stake and shake. And I can't remember where the fuck I was eating. And I asked for barbecue sauce. And when I opened the bag and pulled out the little barbecue sauce thing, it was masterpiece. And I was like, oh, the best barbecue sauce they make. I got the Rodney Coleman barbecue sauce. That was the only time I've ever seen massive barbecue sauce was I got a little container of it once. Maybe someone down there knows where the hell they give that out. Or maybe they were just using it at the time. But I was like, oh, fuck. I remember like being all like, this is masterpiece. And I like took my time to really taste it. I was like, how right is Ronnie Coleman? No. That's right. Did you look bigger than next day? I think the pumps. Like there's extra something there or something. Something. Something. Hi, sodium. I can see that. I can see that. I agree with everything he just said. So I've nothing to add to that. Mary fuck you. Okay. Okay. That's all we got on the YouTube guys. Oh, okay. That's good. We smashed it. Well, episode number. This is a lot of episodes is all set then. We'll put the numbers still on the release. You know what I mean? You won't say it though. Yeah. That way if we can move things around. If we need to move things around ever, then we we're good to do that. You know? Is there anything else we have to talk about? What? Huh? No, we just really needed to talk about my dead battery and we covered that. So we're good. That's fine. I got something I can show you guys. I got to bring something home. Check this out. What's your name? Oh. Oh, is that the 20. Oh, what is that? This is the, that's not the essence. This is the, this is the obsidian nine on my clock. Oh, the obsidian nine, of course. Of course. Yeah. I got to bring it home. You didn't know that right way pulled it out. Yeah. Obviously. So yeah, it's a cool thing with the extended clip. Yeah, the cool thing is I already checked the guys were, we're empty here. Dusty. I have this feeling of freedom flowing through me just by sitting with him. You can also break this down and you're gonna have less of a silencer. Yeah. Yeah. In case you want like, you know, a little bit more mobility inside the house. This calf comes off. You pop it right on there. And then it's only this long. It's not as far as that like if you, you don't want the neighbor to hear, but it's okay. The room ain't knows you're about to die too. It's it's for moving around the house. So you don't blow your ear drums out, you know, but you still, you know, when you're clearing your house of intruders and naturally, yeah. Yeah. So I got to bring this anyway. It doesn't chip in for property taxes is considered an intruder. Yeah. But yeah, you got to bring it home. I'm happy about that. This is uh, this is freedom at its finest here. Fuck yeah. In your shoot, I would like around with nothing, around with a half barrel, half silencer, then around what a lot silencer is right in here. If you do that now, if you ask pop, you just pops. I mean, if I had the subsonix out, we technically could, but I don't think that would be the responsible thing, you know, here in the house. You don't have like an area of your house. You can send rounds into We just sent rounds over to the east. Yeah. Well, it would take like five, five mattresses with plywood between them when that stopped the bullet. I don't even know. I wouldn't want to find out, but they do tests like that. YouTube, you know, you'll see us for videos for the latest videos. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You could. You could see how many like rounds you know, who you could and you could do this. Let's do that. You mean like right now? Like, like, find a video of this? They do that. That's an overnight week. Yeah. Yeah. This is the 9 mil can and now I have a 22 can that is still being held that I'm waiting for, which is that one. You saw the video on that. That was very quiet. Literally, it's just like a click click click click click click. I was given like a movie that was less than a movie. Yeah. Yeah. That was so quiet. So that's the guy you'd need if you were like literally an crowded subway station. Oh, yeah. People would never know. I just you just walk right up, put four rounds up and do a guy's heart or whatever and just let him drop and walk away. Get on your train. Never know. You never know. I'm fucking perfect. I like to use what you need. Like a whole visual. It's like Ron has had the need to shoot someone a subway before. Not the restaurant. Yeah. Hi. Hi. Hey. Hey. Yeah. Yeah. This is what's right. This is what's right. It was. I'll talk right up to the table and you just put since it's a 22. That's why the assassins always like double tap at least right. Yeah. Everyone. Yeah. Few rounds. Right. And headshots. You got to do a headshot with the 22. So rattles around in the brain. That's the thing about a 22 is you get a real small entry and then it doesn't come out because they just fucking. Yeah. Yes. It's a good gun for killing people. Yeah. It's the assassins weapon of choice because it's so quiet. Like share, subscribe, comment, ring the bell and order from iamutin.com using either my code, dusty 20 or big Ron 20. There you go. You don't even know what's fucking code. You want to order from a guy doesn't know is on code. Anyway. I don't think I don't even know. Sorry. That I don't think your phone number either. Okay. Thanks everybody and remember it's just bodybuilding.

Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building. I'm Big Ron Part Loan. Of course I'm here with Dusty Handsha and the producer Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and bring them up. Yes, okay. And remember, I am mutant.com. Go to I am mutant.com, get your ISO surge, get your all in, and everyone should get on the gear. Yes. And of course for those of you who don't quite get that joke, the gear is their EA. Right? Right. Start telling that. G-E-A-A-R. Yeah, the gear. The gear. Okay. So we're not going to talk about hockey. I know we finished the last episode. We're going to open with the Pittsburgh Pro controversy. I mean, isn't controversial the Robobank? Because you Robnex. Do you think it was a flat-o robbery, Dusty? Like, let's get that out of the way. Like, what do you think? Do you think it was a flat-o robbery? Well, let's talk about what we did over the weekend while this happening. We were all talking. Three of us in our group chat. And when I watched the videos, I said I think next winning. Then I saw still pictures. And I said, I think Derek is winning. And it wasn't until someone who I trust very much that was there put up a post breaking on the show, which is in. And I said, okay, next winning. Because the way he broke it down was what I saw in videos, the pictures were a lot more clear than the videos which made me think, and I, Derek's got it. But once he broke it down as being there, I said, you know, I got to go with the end because it looked solid. So do I think it was a robbery? No, I think it was a 15 to 15 score by the end with Nick winning the pre-jaging by one point and Derek winning the night by one point. And then something had to happen. What do you guys see? Well, I watched the live stream. I paid the, what is it? Well, 2999 American, which is like, you know, $300 a year. That's all I need. And it's a $300. As our dollar continually gets less. At least it wasn't next week. It would cost more than an amazing government. Yeah. So I watched the live stream. Braden came over and we put it up on my big screen and we watched the finals. Nice. And so what I saw was, I need those. Yeah. All right. So he thought Nick was winning. Braden thought Nick was winning. He's like Nick's gonna win. Like right down to like when they did the tiebreaker. He's like, I think Nick's gonna win. But yeah. I wasn't that sure. I thought Derek could win this. And at the very last call out when they did the tiebreaker. And then they asked him to switch sides. I was like, oh, I know this sounds weird. But when they asked him to switch sides, yeah. I suddenly thought it made a difference. Huh. I kind of went like, oh, wait a minute. Derek's gonna win. And I know that the guys do in the commentary Ian and Foo Ed. And when they did the back double buy set, they were saying, well, look at Nick's hamstrings. Yeah. Nick's hamstrings are so crazy. Yeah, they really were too. And I was like, yeah, yeah, they are. But Derek's back is still better. And his glutes. And his glutes are still like fill Heath style. Flex Lewis. Flex Lewis style, ripple chip. Super, super, super quality shredded glutes, which is like, I know that's not how you judge a show. But it's just hard not to look at. I know that. Yeah, let me, it looks like he's never taken a shot, right? And he has some. And his hamstrings are still good. Like Derek's not the best at flexing his hamstrings in the back shots. He's not the best at displaying that pose for his hamstrings. But he still had a better back. He's got a thicker back down the middle. The back doubles chunk here. But then Nick's arms are crazyer from the back. Yeah, right? So like then back double, the arms make a big difference. So it was so close. I would say that that was fair enough, the closest call I have seen in years and years at a show. That was a fair tie breaker. Like for them to say we need a tie breaker, I didn't think that was weird. I thought, holy, they're really, really trying to get this right. At the end of the day, I think Derek's quads from the front, even though his quads weren't as nutty as at the Arnold when he was like perfect. His quads still have deeper separation than Nick's. They still have more striations when he locks his leg out. He still has a cleaner kind of look in some of the poses like his conditioning may have been eight. Like like don't even want to use the wrong word, but his condition might have been better. Which is why I think they went with them. When they break down the poses, I had the front double is difficult because Nick has better arms. But I thought Derek has better broquettes. Yeah, I think Nick has like Nick's arms are just like massive bicep peaks with like crazy gnarly like their better arms. Derek's biceps aren't his strong point. He kind of has like a full round flatter muscle belly. I think that Nick has a more monstrous look, but it's definitely not prettier. And I think that that's probably what the separation was. You know, you can go, I had it four poses to four poses is how I broke it down. That's how I had them winning out of the seven mandatory's in the most muscular. I had it four poses to four poses, which is why they would have a tie it makes sense. But at the end of the day, see I think Derek's back is better there. He's got a wider thicker back than Nick. I know it's like minor. And then Nick's hamstrings are crazy. But it man, it was so fucking close. And I think the reason they went with Derek is just because he's at had prettier. See I think Derek wins that shot clearly. It's hard for Derek to lose that shot. It's hard to lose that shot. The rear double biceps definitely is. I had them with the rear lats spread to even though the ham's are better on Nick. I know the guys online were saying the front lats spread I actually gave to Derek because there's something about Nick's front lats spread. I don't quite like yet. Right. It's like, I don't know what it is. But I just think he doesn't win that pose out, right? I thought that he won the most muscular. Nick definitely won the most muscular. Derek has a problem with his most muscular. It's like he doesn't flex his pecs. People say his pecs aren't striated, but they are. He just isn't like crunching them. Like you know, when I did the most muscular, when most like you did them dusty, you push your hands together in the pecs go. Then they break out, right? And I don't know why Derek's pecs don't do that when he does the most muscular. It's like you kind of let some hang almost. It bothers me. He's just giving up that pose. And then this is going to sound like a nitpick. But I don't like Derek's ab thigh. Because I feel like he's not fully flexing his abs. I feel like he's trying to draw his ab wall in a bit. And it makes the lines between, I would say brick out. Like I tell my guys, blow out all your air. Like blow out as much air as you can. And then cough. And get right down on your abs, so they're fully bricked out. And I feel like Derek holds back a bit and tries to pull his ab wall in a little. And Nick just blows out on his abs. And see if he knicks all bricks there, right? Yeah, yeah. Go to the ab thigh ab thigh where Derek's doing it correctly. Also hate that variation he does. Yeah, that's not an ab thigh. I think, you know, it holds you back in that shot. You saw that. You had put it up earlier somewhere. I don't know where it was. Derek gives away the ab thigh because he doesn't hit it properly. And then he gives away the most muscular. And that's a problem. But I thought at the end of the day, there you go. Yeah, that's to me he's solid. You know what bothers me about the whole thing is it when, and that's why I said robbery. Really? Like if you're throw away your feelings and look at these photos, all of them go up to the side chest, look at them. That chest is wrong. But it's right above, go up a little bit. No, it's on the same picture. Oh yeah. Like you can't tell me that either, like I would've been fine with either from winning. Oh yeah. Look at this shot. Okay, so to me, from the waist up, Derek got that shot because it has flow. From the waist down, I look at the side of Nick's legs and his glutes, he pulls him in better on that shot. I'm like, okay. Nick, so I'm literally arguing with myself. And then it comes down to a one point decision. And I think that that's justified. But I think what it is is, everyone should on Nick for so long that when he came back, the best he's ever been. They just wanted him to win because they wanted him to win. The thing I didn't like was that when people are screaming robbery in all this, they're indirectly tearing Derek down. And I'm like, so go to the outside and scroll down, scroll down. So even though I think, well, Derek's hitting his abs pretty good there, but he also isn't masterful at holding them like that. They kind of fade in and out because he's breathing. Nick's is locked in. But look, look at the width of the lats versus the width of the waist. I think Derek has a lot more taper. Sure. And I think that this little things like that. And I don't know if the user word polish or whatever, or just shape and structure is why he won. So I'm not saying that I had Derek winning. I'm saying I totally understand why it went that way. Yeah. And you can understand if it went the other way. That's the other way. It's just, oh, Nick's a little freaky here. Like it's. And I know that people love Nick. And also too, we've completely skipped over the fact that Nick fucking after how many disappointments was it three disappointments? Two majors. Two majors. Yeah. He just stops into this show looking absolutely nuts. And like, wow, like now how's the Olympia look? You know what I mean? Yeah, I'm going to be shuffling about. I mean, we didn't see Nick for like what? Three. It's been three years. No, and he's a factor now. You know what I'm saying? Bob definitely has to pipe down. Yeah. It was so funny that he put up that clip where he dusty where you were talking about how people were like, you should retire. Yeah. Exactly. I'm sure of those people now. Yeah. The thing that I liked about Nick that really, as a fan, and as a spectator to any physique show that I really, the spot I thought he owned Derek on, was that when Nick came out, he was, he was given the crowd like I know that I'm nuts. And I did feel like watching it, Derek looked nervous to me. While he was saying I got this, I don't think he was short. I think that's why Nick had the look of disappointment when he lost. I mean, it's not just that he lost. It's that he absolutely knew he was winning in his head. And I think that that's enormous. And I know I sent this thing to Ron yesterday, Bumsted put up a video talking about it. And the cliff notes are simple. I'm afraid of Nick now, because this show absolutely put fuel on a fire that didn't need it. And when I'm coming to the Olympia, if you ask me if Nick can win the Olympia, this year the answer is yes. Yeah. Suddenly, like, can, and I will not be surprised if he does. No, one bit. I'm more confident in Nick winning the Olympia this year. Then I was two years ago when I thought he would win. So my vote right now seeing no one is I think that Nick will very possibly win the Olympia in the reverse. Derek won and he knows it was by a hair, right? Which I said Canadian hockey player would say it's a certain type of hair. Yeah, exactly. Rimes with fun. Anyways. But he, so that should fuel him as well. Yeah. And the craziest part is, Sam's got to be watching this going. Oh, shit. Like, I got to deal with two of you now. So I hope, and I think that we will see all three of them at their best and it's going to be impossible. That's giving nuts. I feel bad for the judges when they're looking, because it's going to be exactly what Ron just did. Well, when he has the haven't died, I do notice that Derek's chest is a little fuller on the haven't thought, I mean, they're not going to have to like pick it apart. Yeah, it's not just like state level judging. You know what I mean? First, like, you know, guy walks on stage first. Like, oh, yeah. This is far from this. It's like a possibly V. You know, all I know is Jim. Get our seats ready because we're going. If you see me disappeared during pre-judging, I went to lunch. It's a lunch. It's it's it's it's it's it's it was an awesome show. It was everything like as a business person. The guys that promote the Pittsburgh Pro, which obviously it's a man in show, you know, but they did a great job having the live stream of in number. Thing went really well. The live stream was super easy to the actual was not by it. Well, what's it doing went well? The expo as well. And then they wind up like, what more could you ask for at your show, then to have that type of a finish, right? Yeah. And that the year you put up the 100K and you try to like, step up the show and that happens and you have it. You know, step up the first show. Ah, yeah. Oh, one more little quick correction for the kids out there is last week. I said, hey, what did the prize money used to be for the Pittsburgh Pro? So it's 100 grand. And not all these people messaging me. They're like, there was no Pittsburgh Pro. You moron, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. That means I'm like, I'm like, oh, wait, wait, wait. There was a 1993 Pittsburgh Pro. There was a 1994 Pittsburgh Pro. There was a Pittsburgh Pro in the 90s. Milo did it every year. Did it? Yeah. So like, I know that you weren't born yet, but they're used to be a Pittsburgh Pro. And it was a tier three show. That's what I was referring to the old days. But you know, you'd have to think of more than just your lifetime to get that. You have to laugh around because I put up a post about because I have a few clients and one of our team people that's competing in the USA is competing in these shows. Like I'm doing nationals. I'm like, yeah, I saw that. So I put the post up and I said, nationals is in November. And then I made it text. It's in December now. I'm like, it used to be in November. Yeah. So it's the last pro qualifier in the US. And it's actually the name of the show. The NPC nationals. Yeah. The other one's called the USA's and there's an North American Seattle. And how about this? And how about this? Some people are like, yeah, yeah, yeah. So and another thing that bothers me and I don't mean to trip on like almost everyone who says this. But when you say, I mean to, they say, oh, I'm doing the van pro. I'm like, no, you're not doing the van pro qualifier. Yep. You're doing the van amateur. Yeah. The van pro is on the following day. And it's the pros. Yeah. You're not a pro. You're not doing the van pro. Yeah. And then be like, if I was doing the amateur show at the Chicago pro, I'm like, oh, yeah, guys, get ready for Chicago pro. Chicago pro. So they're doing the Olympian. Doing like that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm doing the Olympian. But mine's on Wednesday. Yeah. See, like, the Arnold people get it right. Because they say, I'm doing the Arnold amateur. Because they title the show properly. Yeah. Because the van pro is actually called the van pro. Yeah. So you're doing the van amateur. You're not doing the van pro. You have a pro card for that. Yeah. That's the one in Valera one. And Vancouver a couple years ago. Right. So that's my little thing. And I just try to remind people that like to walk around saying you're doing the van pro. You're not. I actually had a, so I had a client, Jennifer, that I love. As soon as she won a show, I told her I wanted to do the junior USS. Yeah. And then like the next day, she posted up like, nationals, here we come. So I immediately messure. I'm like, it's not a big deal to not most people. But to me, this, yeah. Here's what's called. So when I put that post up, I literally messaged her before I hit post and said, the post is about to go up. Not about you. I mean, a little bit, a little bit about you, but not really direct it as you're not. Final influence, maybe not just you. Yeah. And she goes, oh, okay. Yeah. That one for now. That one for now. Time for an F bomb. Yeah. I got to talk about somebody else too. What about this guy? Check this guy out. Boom. Terrence Ruffin is not only back. Terrence Ruffin is the best he's ever been. Oh yeah. He was, he was perfect. He looked fantastic. Wasn't his a one point win also? Was it? Like there's with a tie. I think he won by one point. Okay. I always tell you about how that went. But I went to him. He looked at him. Incredible man. And the guy that got second was really good. Oh, well, I was he wasn't quite. He wasn't as pretty obviously like, you know, then classic. There's like so many genetic factors for shape and structure. So he he's going to give that up. Stand in next to Ruffins. And the way Ruffins displays his physique to like his absolute strongest possible suit. Yeah. But the other I can't remember the dude's name helped me out. Scott, the guy got second. Hold the I'll pull up just second after the video. Dude. Yeah. Really big upper body. Awesome. I think it was more early that Terrence has in this video. Just it blows me away. Just before we got to him, I just wanted it as this video of finishes. I want to say man, like, I feel like he had he had been waiting and waiting. He'd been gone for a few years. You know what I mean? Yeah. I just feel like people people forget so fast. There were some things that were down in the middle here. If he just I think it's that guy. Just go straight to this guy. Yeah. Yeah. Isn't that the second place? No. No. Hold on a minute. There was a video. There was a guy with this guy. There was a couple of. Oh, right there. There we go. Is this a good picture? I think that is him. You're right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That dude was great. He was a gnarly condition. Really, really good classic guy. Just not quite as pretty, right? You know, you're standing next to like in classic. There's just that. It's hard to be that pretty and then have to say not quite as pretty. Yeah. Yeah. That conditioning. That. It just get into the open if he chose to. Yeah. I don't know what his body weight was, but he doesn't look like he's underweight for his height. Look at look at the hamster. He's like thick lats. Not talking about the hamster. Look at these hamster. Yeah. No kidding. There's not an ounce of fat on that guy. So, Fooad in the commentary. Fooad said he thought his conditioning was in person. He thought it was some of the craziest conditioning he'd ever seen in his entire life. Wow. Fooad seen a show or two. Yeah. He doesn't know. Yeah. I mean, look at that. The way I want to note for those of you that watch a live stream, Fooad and Dennis James are a great pair. They get along. They banter well. Dennis is a very easy guy to talk to. Fooad's a very easy guy to talk to. So, that always goes well, right? Yeah. But they added Ian this year. And I don't know if that was the first time he has joined an IPB live stream. I, because I don't know when I was getting the live stream, right? Yeah. But with Ian there, it was another level of way better. It's because nobody knows Fooad like Ian does. So when you get Dennis and Fooad together, it's like, oh, hey, like maybe they haven't talked in a few months, right? Yeah. So they go, hey, and they get going. But when you go through Ian in, there's this instant flow where Ian can like hop in and it's like, you know, like if I was doing a show with mellows and then you added Dusty, I would be better because Dusty was there. Yeah. Just makes the Fooad Ian dynamic and then with it just was awesome. They were just great. Nonstop, good commentary, very productive. I thought it was entertaining to listen to. That's what we need to. Oh, yeah. You know, just like commentary in general, we were talking about that after the show, I think it was last week about hockey commentary and how that's changing. You know, all this stuff, this is what bodybuilding needs. Like you want to make the sport more accessible. It's not like, well, it's not like, like we say, you know what they used to do, they used to be like, well, in the evening, they're going to come out and they're going to do their individual routines. Yeah. It's insulting people who paid. They know that. I know that. It doesn't know that. Yeah. No one who paid $30 needs you to tell me that. Yeah. I have to do this because it's our usual breakdown of shows and I have to go backwards one more time because there's no way in how that we can't talk about bone act and Martin. Yeah. But after pre-judging, there was third and. Oh, yeah, third and fourth and fourth and I was like, this was tight. Bonehawk has a shot with Martin and I still knew Martin was going to win. I wasn't sure. He blows my mind. He won't go away. Yeah, Bonak. Bonak will be way too. He will not go away. So I thought the only reason like Martin, obviously, added great size. Because the sweep to his quad. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I mean, holy shit. So when Bonak and Martin were doing their final call out at night, I guess Bonak was a head in the morning and then Martin pulled ahead of him at night. I guess that's what happened. They were saying that Martin was fading in the morning, which I didn't watch the lives. So I don't know. But he was better when he came out, yeah, put it in and faded a bit. Yeah. And obviously, he tightened that up before the night. But man, like number one seeing Martin absolutely cement the fact that he is one of the guys, which we already knew, but you still need that other show. Yeah, he had that good Olympia, right? He had that Olympia where everyone's like, oh, but now it's like, oh, again, okay. Now you're expecting it this year's a lot of you're beating Bonak. And then you're looking at Bonak and you're going, you, you past guys that we had beating you, easily, easily past them. Like unbelievable. So I had to bring both of those guys up for obvious reasons. Yeah. Plus just, I like both of them on a personal level. So that's awesome. I mean, look at the front double on Bonak and that shot. Like, oh, yeah. Crisot, how do you look like Crisot when we had, we don't even mention you? Yeah. Yeah. What was the story on Crisot Iran? What did you see watching the livestreams? So Crisot just has a couple of structural challenges that make them self-apparent right off the bat. So you'll walk out and you stand in the front relaxed and right off the bat, he's got a structural issue with structural acts. Yeah. So, and you know what, how that is. Like, it's just such a problem if you've got to overcome kind of, he's got real wide, but high lats in the front relaxed. Mm. So it's kind of, it's just an unusual look. And then his back needs to be bigger. Like, he's shredded to the bone and he's got all that gnarly muscle on him. But on the stage, his back needs to be bigger, his posing needs to improve. There's some things like that. But even having said that, he like, Plinko is to fifth, you know? And I ended up in that lineup and he's, I mean, he's, you know, he's a type of bodybuilder where anyone who sees him in person is just going to be, what the fuck is that? Yeah. He's going to be F bombs. You know? But you, you, you put him in that lineup again. So, season guys, like those guys are masters at presenting their physique. I mean, you got Bonaak in there, just like, that's what he's all about, right? And that's what happened when he was doing the last call out against Martin. I was like, well, Martin's got like, he's got like the more classic. And I don't mean classic in like a Bumsted way, but I mean, a classic in like an old school. His side chest is like round and full and it's got all those crazy flow to it. And Bonaak has a little bit of a different look to him. He's not, he's not structurally the best. Yeah. But the muscle quality is like that polished old boot. Right. Like, like, looks like they're more comfortable once a bro. Yeah, just looks like you look at him and you're like, oh, that guy's done a million reps. Right. And I know that that's not actually what it is. I need to know people are going to see it. That's not, it's not scientific, but that's what the, the thought is is that's like, that's like one of those masters guys. He gets the most muscular. You know, those masters guys that come out like the USA's and stuff and he hit the most muscular and you're like, god, what the, just crazy, gnarly, everything just ripping out of the bone and Bonaak has that nuts. So look to them and that's, if I used to. So today, you know, yeah, I'm also today. It's like weird crazy to see him at his best. When I felt like man, I remember him beating Luke, sandow and seeing him backstage and just him being just so incredibly crazy. Then, and I feel like that was not an era ago, but like a half of era of body. You don't, I mean, and he's even better today, which is mind blowing. Well, the thing as to is he's got some issues from being older that have deteriorated, but he has overcome them with other areas is improved and then he just knows how to show it. Like you were saying, Ron, I consider Krizzo like, you don't want to start a hockey game. It's like, you know, it's like a game down to two goals. And that's a sense of what happens when you come out and do your front relaxed, next to Derek. Yeah. Like, now you're down to goals and we haven't finished the quarter turns. Yeah. And you got to make your way back up in the poses, you know what I mean? So there's that also, Scott, if we, if we, if they're on there, yeah, there's no way we can't talk about the Italian. Oh, yeah, yeah. And that was a manual, Muna, Muna's. I had his name. Is that how you said it? Muna, I think. We're sure. We'll say yes and get yelled at. It was, yeah. Manual, moonas. I guess you'd say it. But pose a manual. Moonas, that's what it is. All right. I wanted to get that right. Although I butcher his name, so I probably should have said anything else. We'll be throwing that. We'll be throwing that. We'll be throwing that. We'll be throwing that. We'll be throwing that. We'll be throwing that. We'll be throwing that. We'll be throwing that. I was like, well, that's over. I mean bananas as always. I think she's better than ever. Yeah, she's a great. Look at the tail sheep on her neck. I mean, just insane. She's not on those how to hit her shots. Look at the last. Look at the lats on her coming out of the waist. Detailed through the glutes. Always nice. That's right. And I like her look better than Sarah Vargas personally. I would pick her all day for Olympia. I think Sarah is a structural train wreck. It takes one to no one. Sarah is like her conditioning is obviously pushed the entire division. Go to the second place girl. She's just the right of what you do in the tally right there. She was awesome to me. Oh, yeah. But as soon as I saw her, I was like, she could, from the back, she could bodybuild. I mean, yeah, she was awesome. Try and see if she can. Look at the back when she hits this shot, the rear double. It just conditioning on my style. Yeah. She was awesome. When you can look that good in place second, that's very telling for how great Italian was. Yeah. Yeah. Natalia is tiny waist and the crazy ridiculous X taper. Like I was going to say V taper, but then with the quads. It's. And that's the first impression down two goals to none right off the bat when Natalia walks out from the front like that, right? Yeah, it's a lot to beat. So. And then of course, Lola wins a figure. Yeah. You know, there's Natalia. So congratulations. And then Lola, of course. I mean, you know, basically comes in like the terminator. It's hard to even stand next to the incredible. Absolutely mind bogging. For those of you who have never seen Lola Montez in person, yeah. Off season or contest, she will put your thoughts that you're a good body builder to change. It's a figure competitor, right? Right. Right. And you know, you see these body builders walking around and they walk by and look at her and they look at her calves. Oh, look at her. Dalson. They're like, oh, she looks like a legit superhero in this picture. Yeah, isn't she? Yeah. Like legit. Like in person, it's worse. And you know, that's got like when she's standing there and like shorts. Yeah. And a top here like, I mean, I've known her for years and every time I kind of look at him like, okay, so your waist is my wrist. But your quads are my quads. That's weird. Yeah. They like bubble like Philheets. It's like boo. Yeah. She has that ridiculous look to her. And I mean, in, you know, technically she's tiny. Yeah. She's a tiny little human being, but the muscle bellies are just explosive. And when you see her in person, you really get like a strange like realization of, oh, like, because you think the figure girls aren't, I don't know. You just don't think they're carrying them out of muscle. But then she just is carrying so much muscle on her little tiny bird frame. Look at the top of her calves there. Yeah. Yeah. What the fun? You know, again, another F bomb for the kids. You know, and it's, she's something else. I told her when she got third at the old last year. She was like, we're just having a conversation and she's like, well, what did you think? And I was like, I don't know what to say about you getting third because when I see her, I just see like a fully loaded Mercedes with all the bells and whistles. Yeah. That's a great way of putting it. You know how like some people, you're like, all the physics awesome. But you know, what are the bells and whistles that are rare, right? You get the crazy triceps, the crazy lower lats, the amazing calves, the perfectly, the glutes that easily come in and get the nice, sharp, crazy corner on them that some people just don't have. They get stridey glutes, but they don't have that. You know that long corner that Ronnie Coleman had? Yeah. She has got that. So it is terrible. So it is terrible, right? And you know, just the, you know, just the bubblyness is just, just everything is fully loaded, fully loaded. And I, when I think she's going to win an Olympia, I just don't know when that's going to happen. Or I mean, vitamin C's retired now. So that's going to help obviously, just like finally, you know, open it up a bit, but we're just going to see what happens. Because I would not be surprised if a little of my test wins an Olympia. And I will also say that back when I used to work at mutant, we found her an Instagram. And I said, I get to get this girl a mutant and she wasn't even a pro yet. Okay. I really talked her into joining mutant and the very next show, she won the Arnold Amateur and got her pro card. No kidding. So like we saw her like before and I was like, when I saw her an Instagram friend, when I first saw her was like, uh, what who is this? And that was like years ago, right? That's a mutant when you bring, make that. Yeah. She fits the brand. Really nice person. I hadn't really talked to her last until the Arnold this year. And I talked to her a bunch, and talked to her after too, you know, she said she has a pretty crazy story. We should get her on here because I haven't heard it. I was like, all right. Well, I want to hear it. So we should get her on the show. She tell us that story. You know, she comes. She comes from a very like crazy background of like, you know, coming from absolutely nothing. Yeah. You know what I mean? We're on that spot. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Cool. So did we cover? Do we barely cover enough? Show to consider it. Show coverage. I think we've figured on it. Yeah. All the other friends we've ever had. No terrible. We did three whole divisions. Well, we did three four. Four divisions. I don't even remember what we did. See, I've pulled up the name for the guy who got second place in classic. How about that? And I almost got his name right. Pose. Yes. I think I think you might have got there. I might have. Maybe not. Somebody will crash me. Somebody at home is going. That's not my name. Yes. Venus. Yes. I think you're like the actor. That's how it helps me with that. But I didn't read it. Okay. All right. Got it. What are we off to now? What are you talking about? We'll after that. It's back to back, man. We don't get any rush because now that you're in the house coming up. Yeah. And I sent you guys the thing that Nick Walker's coming for. To be the only guy to win three New York pros. Oh yeah. Oh, three rings. No one's ever won three. Really? You know, run out of fingers. Yeah, you're right. We're going to win three New York pros. Yeah, we've done three. Yeah. Well, oh no, sorry, wrong guy. Sorry, Justin. Um. Now, now here's this to an off question. Did Jake Hutter win three night of champions? I don't think so. Hi. Is he used to call to an O.C. right? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So there you are. Do I know Flex won a couple? I know Marcus changed our life with one. And is Martin coming? I assume Martin's. Dude, so that imagine this. There's been so much talk. Like we heard Dave Palumba the other week say, you know, I think Martin. Martin. I think Martin had it. You know, that he thought that Martin had actually beaten Nick. A couple years back at the New York pro. And people have been talking about Martin's getting better in this and that. Now we see Nick Walker. I almost feel like we're set up here for a really cool rematch of Martin is showing up to this show. You know what I mean? Both of them back at the same show. Let's do this again and see how the see how the chips fall this time. Yeah. Right. I mean, I love Martin. But I think the gap is too wide. Because Nick would have to be off. Which is not going to happen for him to lose tomorrow in a week. I think that like Martin obviously, you know, making huge improvements. And like, but in the front double by step, I just, I just don't see how anyone at this show can stand next to Nick in the front double by step. So that's like right off the bat. It's like, well, he shit. He's going to be told the welding shot. Yeah, I'd be really tough. Those are what happens, man. There's seven other poses. Yeah. Yeah. So in SAS is going to be there, I think. Yeah. Yeah. So that's, so that's another. Man, SAS just has a way of picking shows with. Freaks rolling by the way, we did try to find a competitor list and we worked our face all the way. I guess there's no official competitor list for these jets. So chat, CBT couldn't find a beach. Yeah, chat, does. So I know this show comes out Wednesday and you guys might be like, it's right here. Yeah. It's Monday. It was like, it wasn't. Yeah. Right. It's good. Yeah. But it's a good bit for you to get a basket, see good pounds? Yeah, so you guys know winning or Fusion wins really well. OK. Right. Right. So you guys write on it or you guys write on it or you guys with you guys have a good job semial. So you guys have your conditions been well being well in action. You guys have that MC mod season and everything. Oh, right. stage just being relaxed and walking around. I couldn't stop thinking his delts are humongous. Like there's just his delts reminded me and his width reminds me of Jay. Yeah, how Jay's delts just had that ridiculous coat hanger width to them. Yeah. And they were like, you know, just he walked on stage sideways and he'd be like, it was delts are huge and then he turned to the front and he's like, oh my god, Jay's so white. Because Jay was always the widest guy in the lineup and that's where Nick is now just like standing, you know? Yeah. Yeah. When he walked out of the actual reminded me of how Phil used to walk out. Like he came out and it was like, I always feel like the guys were in the nail it. They come out almost like you're welcome. Right. You're welcome. I'm going to let you see this, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was great to see. So I'm looking forward to that and not looking past it, but man, the Olympia. Oh, it's going to be a fun one. It's going to be wild man. Maybe we got a bunch of listener questions guys. I want to jump right in with this one. Mega mass equipment. What are your feelings on it, Ron? I am not a gym owner, but listening to guys talk about all the moving parts of different machine makes me a bit wary. So I never heard of this brand and I message them or I commented back and I guess Ron, this is a rather Texas. They're out of Texas. Oh, God. Texas. I have a lot of feedback on this one. Okay. Yeah. You go take it then because I don't own any Mega mass stuff yet. So I talked to Justin Chier about this yesterday. Okay. Because Mega mass kind of seems to do two things. They've got old school remakes that seem to be very good. So Justin Chier is black T-bar that he's using the chess supported T-bar. That's a Mega mass T-bar, but it's a copy of an old body masters. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And and I don't know if he's changed anything about it or you know, made it better or anything. But Justin Chier said that he loves that T-bar and it's his favorite chess supported T-bar ever. And it's a copy of an old body masters. So they've obviously done a great job at that. And then Justin Chier also has the Mega mass copy of the old Flex Row, the Flex leverage row. And I believe we also have I believe it has a pin to separate unilateral from bilateral. Oh, I might be it. I might be wrong. I know they did that on the press. The flex doesn't have it so other. Yeah. So the old Flex leverage stuff is not unilateral. That's one of the things about it. That's why if it gets bent it's not quite great because I don't know how to get bent though because I think it's so heavy. Right. Like they do over time sometime. Justin, uh, loading on Justin posted a video doing three plates of side on that. Yeah. And I had to comment because I don't think most people know how heavy three plates of side on that is. Yeah. It is heavy. I see people at the gym fell immediately like a young guy puts a plate on his side. They grabs it and he's like, oh, yeah. Because he arms pretty long. Yeah. When you can move the chest piece on it too, so you can make it longer and as far as you're reaching, then the arm itself is way out in front of you. So it's heavy. So I know, um, I know Dusty has problems with one of the pieces, but the, um, the not-a-less leverage line that is because what happened short, long story short, star track, bot flex fitness. Okay. And then for years, star track made the leverage line and they just made the small square tubing that flex had, they just made it bigger and rounder. But all the angles were the same. So if you use a star track flat press, star track decline press, it's the same machine. Yeah. But, um, then star track, bot not-a-less. Yeah. And star track decided to go back to just being cardio. So they moved the strength equipment into the not-a-less brand. So now that same leverage line is made by not-a-less. And Dusty was training on it at Crunch Fitness there. I really like all those pieces. I'm big fan of them. Dusty didn't like to row. He had to stand sideways in the row. Yeah, because the row, the, the, the problem with the row is your, the way that it moves, it pulls it away from you. Yeah, Dusty didn't like the line. You, but you do that, but the, the inclined, the flat awesome pieces. Yeah. That not their approach was like, I felt like it was made by someone who'd never actually done a row. Yeah. And he has styrods. We're going to get to go. Yeah, we have actually like the high row because the hammer one sets down on me, but the not-a-less high row, the, the leverage, uh, remake. I loved it. But he's doing those pieces too. And I believe I might be wrong. I know he did it on the chest presses, but I think there's a pin that separates uni from bilateral, which is like an upgrade, right? But anyways, long story short, he makes those, and Justin says he loves all of them. But then he's also got those pieces that we've seen, which have all the moving parts and the rails on them. I think that must be what he's talking about because he said all those moving parts. And I mean, I'll admit they're like, you know, because at West Coast Island, we have a footprint concern about things, right? I mean, I don't know. I got so much space. We got a lot of equipment jammed in there. I'm already banging my chin sometimes. So, um, that's, I would simply be too big for our gym. And, um, and again, I'm not a massive moving part fan. But hey, you can make things stronger shit, and they don't break. So, maybe he's doing a great job, and I don't have any reviews on that stuff yet. Okay. The only thing that I have from a few people is grade equipment, those pieces, if it's not in a gym that's seeing a ton of people. So, I've had a few people say that as soon as they had that equipment in a gym that was full, they had issues. Okay. So, it's one of those scenarios where you got to ask yourself how busy these are gym before you bring those in. Like, I don't think, I don't think Clarita's ever going to say that those pieces are anything but great. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The only one using them. They're not overly expensive compared to say hammer strength. We're talking about twice. You know, that's why it's, uh, that's why it's a great possibility if your gym is not overly busy. Yeah. But if it is, and again, this is just on what I've heard from guys at home, the stuff. They had some issues with it. And as a gym on a wrong kind of test that your members do not care why this broken. Yeah. It is broken and it is a problem. Yeah. And it's really hard because it's a gym on it. I mean, you want stuff fixed as soon as possible. And so when you have a piece that breaks down more than once for the same issue, it's, it's now a problem. So, I'll be curious to see with more reviews. I'll only talk to a couple guys that said that, but that was their points with those was that it became more of an issue. Down the line. Can you put these two pictures up? Because I am going to see something about this. Well, pictures up, but I can't put them up in post. So. Okay. Yeah. So we bought, I have not, I'm not calling these guys out. I'm just telling it like it is if you don't have a lot of equipment. Uh-oh. Um, but four years ago, we bought six pieces of panata. I'm calling them out. And, everyone really liked it because it moves really well. Everyone's like, oh, I like the lines. You know, like the lines. Great lines. Um, but the hip thrust broke on us like four times to the point where I had to get a part fabricated. And then we finally just sold it. And I mean, for someone to put it in their home gym, they're going to be fine. Right? Yeah. But, you know, it just couldn't handle a West Coast iron. Maybe West Coast iron is an exception, but like, you know, we got guys putting six plates aside on the hip thrust and the hammer takes it. But the panata just couldn't handle it. I mean, the way you put it to me before Ron is like the lake press. It's the way I see it. You know, here in Detroit, we have a lot of the automotive plants. And so, I look at like my body master, Hacksquad. And that thing is built with the same construction that they would build like a machine that was making parts, you know, assembling things. It's going nonstop like your lake press at West Coast. It's just one guy gets off at the next guy loads it up. You know, so for maybe my home gym where I'm using something, you know, twice a week at the most, it's going to last forever and be perfect. But yeah, for you guys, that's a lot of wear and tear. So we sold the hip thrust and then we got sold it, you know, and there was another piece we got red F2 because and a lot of the little bolts kept breaking on the decline press and pull down. We had all these little bolts, these little allen key bolts that hold things together and they would snap. And so I'm lot putting new bolts in locktighting the man cranking them up, trying to just, you know, but our seated calf raised snapped in half about five weeks ago. The guy was just doing seated calf raised with three plates and the arm just snapped. And it wasn't out of weld. It was in the middle of the tubing. Holy crap. And it just snapped and you could throw the photo up and post. Yeah, yeah. So we contacted the the wrap and he's like, hey, no problem. I'll put in a claim and they're sending us a new arm. So awesome. Thank you. Yeah. But you know, it did snap. And then the other day we went to do the pull down, which everyone loves. And that's the pull down that Cuba went out of his way to get because he knows that. And it's a great. It's like one of my favorite pull downs of all time. But we grabbed the one arm and Braden goes, said, he feels a little weird and I got on it. And I could kind of hear like a click click click click click click click. So Braden took his head full and off and he's listening like what joint is that? Because there's a couple of joints that move, right? Yeah. And he gets in. He goes, oh shit. The weld was completely snapped on the main loading arm and it was just the gusset that was holding it together. There's like a gusset that spans the gap. Yeah. And it's completely snapped all the way around. It wasn't even touching. Like open gap on the weld. So we put in another claim and I got an email saying they're sending us an arm. But now I did notice at the feebo booth, I went and looked at the penata stuff and some of the the tubing looks thicker now and they've gone to more square tubing on some of the moving parts. And the seated calf raise looks like it's been completely redesigned. So you know, maybe we got kind of the first gen or whatever of the fancy new penata stuff that came out, which again happens with cars sometimes at first gen. You don't buy that first year? Yeah, you know, the first year you wait for the second gen, right? I mean we had the first gen, we had the first gen arsenal leg press and we had to get rid of it because I put new bearings on at three times. I was like, get rid of this. And you know, I don't hear the same complaints with the newer one, right? So yeah, it was a little frustrating. But you know, people who buy Ferrari say the same thing. Yeah. And you know, if they say that's a Ferrari equipment, well, that's just I'm just giving you guys the information. I'm not bagging on anybody, but as a gym owner of a gym where people really load shit up like every single piece of our gym gets six plates aside on it, five plates aside on it. Like it's got to be able to handle that type of loading and and that's why people say to me all the time, are you going to get this? Look, I'll fancy it. It looks in the show me an Instagram video and I'm like, do you realize where you are? Yeah. You're a West Coast iron. Like the reason we have an old sidebecks leg press is because I don't want to have to fix it. Yeah. You know, the reason we have this is because I don't want to fix it all the time. So there's a reason why we have the equipment we have. I also got Scott got a bunch of them. So we'll try to run through them quickly. Here's one for Dusty Dusty's arm day routine during the end of his career. What was it when you were trying to grow your arms? Yeah, I have no grown my arms. I know that's these rule for arms. Yes. So I mean, I've been over this a lot, but for me, triceps were just move heavyweight. Okay. So, you know, heavy school crushers, heavy closed scrap, heavy reverse scrap. That was the jam for biceps. I had to completely remove any and all ego because I found that every other muscle was helping. So I started living on cables for constant tension and using the weight next to the kid, a hundred pounds smaller made that was 30 pounds lighter than his and just really focusing on using it. Same thing with a dumbbell curl. People are seeing me in the gym doing like a seated incline curl and I'm using like a 35. Okay. And just really keeping in it because if not, my shoulders got into play. So if your biceps are giving you an issue, chances are you're not training your bicep. You're training your ego, you're moving weight. I really, that was the one thing as I got more mature and watching. I'm like, why did I spend so many years doing the same thing that wasn't working, expecting it to start to work? But it was because I looked at the rest of my physique and it was working. It's like, cool, but it's not for that. So keep that in mind, fibrids. I mean, saying if your triceps are weak and you're slaying and banging, and, well, do the thing you're not doing and see what happens. But you have to really marry a new option also. So you can't go in the gym for like three weeks and and do the cables or whatever does you have to do. I think, well, I'm not seeing anything. What you gave it three years the other way. Yeah. To me, if you should be able to see a measurable improvement, literally measurable improvement within three months. If they're still not growing, then you got to go back to the drawing board and go, okay, what are what other options do I have? You know, so that's really the magic for me was stopping ego training. All right. My triceps were their biggest when I was when I could do dips with like two plates strapped her mom around my waist in a way, 320. Yep. And that's when I actually thought, oh my triceps are actually finally getting big. And then every other year, I just thought my triceps would be bigger. We've got, uh, Brit here. It's 32 year old female. She says she'd love to step on stage at some point. Female looking for either wellness or figure. I'm natural and I'm on a budget. Me and my fiance coach ourselves. What are some tips that you would give to a first timer? Oh, that's a long list. I mean, it sounds like she's not even, she hasn't picked a show out yet. You know what I mean? She's like, you know what I really like to do this thing. And this step is do that. Yeah. Yeah. Pick a show. Yeah. This is where I disagree with a lot of everyone says wait until you have this physique. And then get on stage. I say you want to compete. You know that. Pick a show that's 20 weeks from now and start a problem. Go through the process. Find out if you even like bodybuilding. Yeah. Yeah. That's part of it. Do you like the process? And commit to it. This is the date. Not I might compete in 20 weeks. I'm going to compete in 20 weeks. Yeah. Lock into it. Follow the whole process. See where you end up. Do you enjoy it? Great. Then start figuring out how you need to get better. As far as which division, I feel like if you're wellness, you should know. Yeah. Like you're just, you're built a certain way. Go look at the pros. Look at them. Do you look even a small version of that? If you do, great run for it. If not, I'd probably lean you right into figure. And just run down that line. And then you'll find out if you enjoy the process. And for the record, people you just get ready for shows by themselves all the time. Yeah. You do not need a coach. This is three coaches on a podcast. You don't need it. It definitely is going to get rid of hurdles that you're going to have mistakes. You're going to make. But it's not an necessity. Can I say something that's might be on popular and might like somebody who had it. Me. If you're on a tight budget, don't spend any money at all on hearing makeup. Zero. Do it yourself. You know how to do your hair. You know how to do makeup. Do a little more makeup because you're on minor rent lights. Zero. So when you do your budget for the show, hearing makeup, zero, zero. And then suit, get a use suit. Yeah. You can use my rent suits. Yeah. Mother girls rent suit budget for $50. Yeah. I see girls all the time spend $300 on hair and makeup. And they're up at four in the morning to get it done because they've gotten appointment. And then their suit costs some $500 or something. And they get like six place at the first show. It's like what was all that for? Yeah. Like I mean, I see the place for hearing makeup don't get me wrong. We're all excited for the Olympia coming up. But for these people on really tight budgets like man goes back to my old advice for guys Costco membership. A lot of the test. Like yeah, you ladies, a lot of you ladies are great at do your hair and makeup like you're trying to you're going to do some runway modeling or something. You know what you're doing? You've been doing makeup your whole life. Just do they have I mean it's funny doesn't it? Get a friend to do. Obsat stuff. Go on to talk. Yeah. Oh, I didn't take a two to four videos. Yeah. Like it's learn how to do it. They can tell you what to get. And there's even those girls that make up girls that are sponsored and have all the shit they'll tell you this is the brand I'm using. This is the brand at wall grades. You can also use $2. Yeah. You can use that one as well. It's not magic. I agree 100%. But make it fun, you know. But I really I want people to get off the fence. The moment you want to compete you should. Go through the process because I've told the story before but when I committed doing my first show the entire time I'm like this is the dumbest thing I've ever done. I will which is a lie. But anyways, I will never do this again. But I won't quit. And I saw it all by the end. And I realized the part that I thought that was dumb was my favorite part. And then I did it for the rest of my life. So but I mean you can't know if you like it until you grind all the way through. And then I realized the reason I didn't care is I don't care about the stage. But I loved the part that the part that I hated was the challenge. It was the rewarding part when it was over. I was like, oh, I missed that. When can I do it again? Yeah. Yeah. You know, or on the other side, you got people that do a prep and they're like, this is not worth it. And my cool stop. Yeah. You need to be a non-competitor still cool. You know, you're still about it. You're still your still a bodybuilder. Yeah. You always hate that. Should you use steroids if you're not competing? What? Yeah. Do you want to be bigger? Go ahead. So I see where you're coming from Dusty. And I feel like growing up, I was told to pick a show. And that was your show and you did it. And honestly, I feel like now I tell people the opposite of that. That I'll tell people to do the get in shape first. And then pick a show. Because I do think it's, and I, but I see where you're coming from. You're coming from the perspective of your committed. You're going to do this. That's going to force you to then do the thing that you want to do. Where you can always push it back if you're in. That's. Yeah. So I'm, you look and you go, okay. But if you don't ever pick a show, yeah, then you don't ever start. So I like that. I like it from that perspective. The part I don't like of picking the show is if you do, like, I'll tell people even. I'm like, hey, this is the show we're doing, but don't pay for it. Yeah. We don't need to pay for it at 30 weeks out. You know what I mean? Yeah. What's, what's the worst of point where you'll have a late find if you pay it any later? Let's know when that point is and let's make sure that you pay before that. But if we end up doing that. Yeah. Yeah. That way too. Because you never know what's going to happen. You could, I mean, God forbid getting a car wreck and break your ankle. And now you can't do cardio. I had that happen to a guy where like, we were really dependent on this cardio at the time. And we're like five weeks out. He gets re-rendered and he somehow broke his ankle when he got rear ended. And now it's like big rear ended. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So that was the only sitting backwards. I was off the window. It's supposed to drive with your feet, not your hands. Yeah. I totally agree with that, though. I mean, I actually always entered the show at the very end even though I knew I was going to make it. Oh, I was so the opposite. I was like a first day that registration opened paid there. First one. Yeah. Yeah. I always waited to the end, but it was for that reason of what if I mean at the end, I was also not smart enough to stop deadlifting 700 pounds to excel. So like, it should happen. But yeah. I can also say that I fortunately never picked a show that I didn't do. Yeah. And it did always put a show. I did 24 shows never pulled out of a show. But no, I think it's awesome. I actually really think that there's actually funny enough Aaron that used to be with us. I came from his name out of Vegas, the one that lived in Japan before. Oh, Aaron the body builder. Yeah. So he's doing his own perhaps. And he had a lot of people go, why don't you just hire a coach and be done with it? And he's like, because I want to learn and I'm okay with the fact that I'm going to make mistakes and be off. And I loved listening to his breakdown because I'm like, yes, that's okay. Also, it's not okay for me. I immediately hired everybody. But if that's what you're into, that's why we all do this is for whatever we love about it. And he loves learning the process and figuring it out. Yeah. Do you think about this one? So it's not just me basically fantasizes about different foods and restaurants and talks about how good they are. But only have them on a rare occasion. Do you guys ever regret not enjoying foods that you love more? No, no, no. No. I'm not, there's only like, I'm not a giant foodie. There's like 10 things I love. And they're all white sauce. Yeah, it's not a fan mail. No, I think here's my take if you enjoy food, which I, we go everywhere. Ron knows that. Yeah, that's the most important thing. I mean, more of the foodie than we are going places. But I find even now, I do one cheap meal a week and it makes sure that when I get it, I really enjoy it. And the times of my life when I was retired, that I was just kind of like doing whatever I wanted, and eating, whatever I wanted, it was never that exciting because I had something like it yesterday. Like I love just, I eat my little four meals a day every day and then Saturday we go to dinner. And then we can go all out plus I'm cheap, which is a week to the money. And I'm making these boobs go for dinner. Yeah. They, well, they're part of her. So they always come, which there's for my, it's a backdrop to my food dishes. I know, I notice, I notice. Or the food is the front drop to the board drop. Yeah. Right. One or two. I'm not sure if I'm here for it. I'm here for no, there's some hits involved. So I'm shares and stuff involved. Dusty. I know it's a long game. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But no, so I don't at all and it will make you choosey too. Like I know what I'm eating in two weeks on Saturday. Right. He's scheduled. See Emily. Emily is probably the pickiest eater. I have of anyone I know. She's horrendous. Herendous. Herendous. She's like egg whites and Vegas on a Saturday night after the Olympics. Yeah, she eats like she eats eggs and like veggies and a little bit of beef. Okay. And that's it. She doesn't. She doesn't. She doesn't eat anything else. She doesn't eat. She doesn't eat any dairy whatsoever. She just, she does not care about anything like that sounds like Victoria. She does. She does. I think she has a lot of things. She's like, she doesn't want to deal with the digestion issue. So she's like, yeah, just really meet all the cars about and if actually do they have a green salad and a salmon filet. Yeah. Okay. I can eat there. Yeah. That's it. So she cares about. So I don't. We don't ever go to like, rich like restaurants with like all crazy food and stuff. She doesn't give a shit. Then she doesn't want it either. Like she doesn't care. She has no taste buds for it. She grew up in a family where her mom would make like brown rice and salmon and then give her carrot sticks for like treats. Oh, wow. Poor kid. And like she never had breakfast cereal. Her there was never breakfast cereal in her house. Her mom was like, no, that's crap. Her mom was like, we don't eat sugar. I got on a quick tirade and then she met Ron a three-toned body. Her treat McDonald's. Emily's treat. Emily's treat is she keeps some 88% dark chocolate. Yeah. Yeah. In a container and she'll break off a square once the night and be like, no, you're so good. Eat the whole bar within five minutes. That's what I'm going to get milk chocolate and you eat like a 150 grand ball of it. Yeah. Oh, really. Yeah. That's Ron. You just you hit a soft note for me because I'm sure you guys are seeing but in the States, RFK is jamming on all these, you know, dyes and all this stuff. Yeah. I have a bunch of friends who are like, yeah. That stuff's in my kid's cereal. I'm like, if you hate it so bad, don't buy it. Yeah. Yeah. If you think it's so bad for them, don't buy it. Like, I'm not angry that cocaine is rampant and scots it. I just don't buy cocaine. Yeah. Yeah. Well, it just drives me bash to like, you obviously don't care that much or you wouldn't buy that ship for your kids. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't know that stuff because my mom always made eggs and toast for breakfast every day and that's what I eat and that's why I still fucking eat. I have a friend who has two kids. The one kid is like, I don't know. I can't tell how kids are. Hold there. One's like nine. I don't know. You know what I'm saying? Five. And he's like, oh, my kids have never ever had a single bite of fried food. Wow. They have no idea what it tastes like. They have no idea what McDonald's tastes like. They've never eaten a French fry. They've never had a chicken finger. They have no idea. I'd cousins in a cold, pleatly alien to them. I'd cousins eat really healthy. And they eat really healthy too. They like, they weren't even allowed to watch TV shows. So I remember like, as a kid, I talk about like, oh, you know, like, be at our G.I. Joe's, you know, and they're like, the theme song to G.I. Joe and they're like, huh? They're like, they never knew there was a TV show, but they never ate chocolate. They never, they never ate anything. I like, they grew up to be normal people, but they lived in, but I started now. Yeah. They lived in, they moved to Montana. And there was this, it was on MTV, this cult. And this lady, the prophet, something or another, they had these huge underground bunkers that were like the size of a football field. We're like, they thought that the end of the world was going to come and that they were going to go there for years. And, you know, like, repopulate the earth and it was weird. It just died with the rest of them. Yeah, for the reason for whatever reason. Like, yeah, they were like, they didn't, they didn't listen to music. They did a bunch of creepy sex involved because there's no creepy sex. It's not a lot of an interesting cult. I was really good. I was really good. I'm going to cult. I'm going to be like, really crazy sex. Yeah, let it or just, yeah, just got to be stockpile weapons for me too. Lots of weapons. I've those shoot in bang. I'm in bang. He'll shoot a shoot in shoot. Shoot. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I had a friend who was like, quite his parents were like, super Christian. Yeah. And I didn't really understand growing up like, I just, but I remember like, I, we built right at his house after school one day and I'd be like, oh, a three-scompany zone. He'd be like, oh, we can't watch trees company. Oh, God, no. I'm like, why not? It's like on it five o'clock. Yeah. We're all here with Jews right there. Oh, no. My parents will only watch trees company. If they hear through the three-scompany theme song, they'll come and knock on our door. Like, if they hear that theme song, they'll come run it. That was like, oh, and then like looking back now, like, I got it. Like later, I was like, oh, there was so much sexual in your window with three-scompany, right? Because like, Jack was pretending to be gay so that he could live with the two roommates and the whole thing, right? And his Christian parents were like, no three-scompany. But I watched his a kid too. I didn't get any of that either. You know what I mean? Oh, because I got it. I just didn't give a shit. I was like, oh, it was pretending to be gay. I guess I was when I was real young. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. I was like, I'm a little older than you, not much, but yeah, no, no, no. Yeah. Great show, by the way. Yeah. I got one more for you guys. And to preface this, Ron does Emily ever watch the show? No. No. Perfect. Here we go. Okay. No. No good. Emily has probably seen one minute of this show. Okay. Okay. When she heard I was on, she wasn't interested. Well, that might not work as well because Victoria will watch the show. I know Nikki will watch the show. And here was the question, hey, Lads, great show is always. It would be what's the chances of having your better half on the show to come or cover some of their bodybuilding experiences in knowledge. No, what should be on the show will launch because I have more to this Victoria had had this idea a while back and she was like, what if we just had like the wives and like I sat where you said, and Emily sat where Ron said Nikki said where does he sit? And they just we just did the show. You know, it'd be better and we'd never be able to come back. That's true. There is that. There is that. I've seen the three of them, but you dinner together, people will be way more interested in them. Our female following would grow. You know, with Emily would say Emily would say stuff. I'd be off camera going, don't say that. We go. That's not how it happened. That's not what happened. No. I'd be like, I'd be like, I'm losing it. I'd listen to the replay. I'd be like, oh, we can't put this out. You've even read on the other. I'm in a spectrum. Once I met Emily at the rate that no one following the show will ever know her, I knew she was my people. Yeah, they say some stuff. I'm like, oh, she goes she goes far enough off the Richter Scott that she actually caught me off guard. What's up? It was like in a public environment. I was like, I love this girl. She's a type of person who tells her mom everything. Okay. And her mom's like traumatized. You know what I mean? I'm like, God, would you tell your mom that? She's like, well, yeah. Like, what would you tell your mom that? She's like, I don't know. My mom. Like, that's why you don't tell her that. Oh, God. No, I got to go sit at the table with her. Look at the eye. Yeah. Jesus. Oh, she's only seeing one thing with Ron. Is that last story? Oh, no. I tell my mom, tell my mom nothing. Nothing. It's not good. Okay. Okay. So I had one, are we doing one more question? Yeah, we're going to do the last one. So I just had an interesting idea. And it's just because I was having a conversation with someone the other day. And I said something that I thought and they were like, oh, that's that'd be very unpopular opinion. And I was like, oh, yeah, I guess it would be. Is there anything the is there an opinion you guys hold about something? Let's say no non-pull non-political just to like clear that. So it's fun. Yeah. Non-political opinion that you guys hold that you think would be very unpopular there were some viewers. Mustard should be illegal. Oh. It's disgusting. Okay. Not as decisive as I was aiming for this. Sorry. It's all I got. Yeah. I've got one. I've got one. Yeah. Everybody should go back to all this like working from home remote stuff needs to end. Everybody needs to go back to work. That's that's my thought. You want to know why? Because I liked before the pandemic because there was nobody on the roads when I went out. I could go to the grocery store in the middle of the day. There's nobody there. I could go to the bank. There's nobody there. Now everybody's everywhere. So everybody's gotta go back to work. I'm amazed. I go to the gym. I used to go to the gym at two in the afternoon. Is it brought by? Yeah. And it'd be like, all people training. And they're all like, all right. We're all like, like, shifed workers or something like that. Guys are working the bar. Oh, yeah. A couple of bounces in their training. A couple, you know, cops off shift. Yeah. Now I go to the gym at two. And I'm like, don't any of you people have jobs? There's like 50 people in here. Yeah. I mean, I love seeing the gym busy, but like, they're working remotely. They may work. And then I realize, oh, no one actually goes to work anymore. Yeah. No. Yeah. That's funny. That's a very valid one. Scott. I like that. Yeah. Because I really enjoyed that. I had a solid like six year run of full time. You can see a cruise in wherever I want to go. And park in right out front of every store. Yeah. You can see the park. You can see the first part of the front. You got the first drop dry cleaning off. You pull up right in front of the store. Yeah. Walking. It's fine. No one's either. No traffic. No. You can see your car from the window as you're talking to the guy. Yeah. Yeah. Then by like four o'clock, I'd make sure I was home because then everybody, all those other suckers got on. It's time for the peasants to be exact peasants have to do their stuff. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Fantastic. Yeah. Yeah. There's like a little bit of a feeling of superiority because you work from home. Yeah. You got to the office. So you're like, I need some separation here. Yeah. I get it. Well, Ron, what was yours? Well, mine was and this is rooted in experience with and mine's not as funny. Mine's less funny. But this is rooted in experience with people that have known and unfortunate situations that have occurred. I think that it is absolutely ludicrous that we allow street bikes that do 300 kilometers an hour on the highway. And I think that they should be completely illegal. And the top speed on them, the top speed on them should be like 140 kilometers an hour. Wait, what's that in miles? Yeah. What is like actual like 90 miles an hour come on. Oh, that's a crime. I think if you want to ride one of those bikes, take it to the track because I just passed and I will cement this in. I just passed another dead guy on the road the other day on a crotch rocket ambulance fire trucks cops lining the highway, body bag smashed up bike ripped in half, truck with a big dent in the side of it. I don't know who's fault it was, but I have no one so many people that have died on those rockets. And the guys friends of mine that ride Harley's, I don't know it's just because they cruise, they don't. And the number of times I'm driving here in Vancouver on the highway on the freeway and the rockets flight past me like I'm standing still f*** f*** like three in a row. And I'm like you guys are going to die like you're going to die or you're going to kill somebody and it infuriates me. And I know there's guys listening to this show that are bubbling right now. I'm like oh I have a Suzuki 1100 and I do 300 if I want. I know. I'm with them. I'm a you know I'm a I feel you should I don't I'm a freedom guy. I don't think you should have to wear seat belts either. But the the motorcycle thing you also do put other people at risk if you're driving a radically in traffic. There is what happens is people see them coming and they think they're doing the speed limit so they pull out and they're doing 200 kilometers an hour and they're keeping them. That guy on a bike. Yeah, maybe a dead person in a car. Literally in front of my high school on the way like the buses were stopping at the high school and he banned and that was it. And it was so when are those situations? At least have some kind of mitigation. So in Australia I don't know the exact number so the Australian guys can correct me but my point is the general point. When you first buy a motorcycle you have to buy like a really low CC bike and you have to put a certain number of kilometers on it. Before you can or you have to ride it for a certain amount of time. I can't remember I think it's a kilometers on a number of kilometers on for that training and you have to like it's and it's like low CC I think it's like a 250. Right and you have to do your time on that link. I had a friend who bought a 900 was his first bike week later he was dead. And I know another guy that he's carrying out with it. Let's careful with the Oh yeah. Okay. Well I bought another guy, another guy that bought a street bike and a week later he was paralyzed. And I've seen it happen too many times and I've passed too many body bags out here in Vancouver because these guys are idiots on the freeway man. Like complete reckless and they're driving like packs of five doing triple the speed limit man. Like we're standing still when they fly past us. They're doing video and they're putting it on social media. Yeah, yeah and they're getting hits and it's just like man and I know hey I got no skin in the game I don't ride a bike and I wouldn't ever buy one of those bikes but I just I just go like the speed limits 100 kilometers an hour on the freeway. So why does the bike do 300 kilometers an hour? That seems a little funny to me like. Yeah. I think the thing is and I could say say this from experience that I've been right my first car was a motorcycle. So when I've had bikes since I was four years old there's a couple things. When you get on a Harley like mine you are in a different mindset. And I used to own car truckets and you are in a different mindset. It's the same I mean when when I've had fast cars I drove them the way they were made to be drifted. Yeah. Yeah and that does play a role the other thing I will say though with the accidents and stuff wrong is and this is why we never like I built Nicky's bike and she doesn't ride it because after our friend passed away he passed away because he was an experienced and he made a mistake. I must take I would never make and I realize I cannot teach her my 30 years of experience on a motorcycle. Yeah in any time friend that I'm willing to let her learn. And so I said yeah we're not doing this anymore. Right because it just didn't it didn't make sense to me like yeah when you're on a motorcycle you are you do have to be aware of every car like when I'm in my truck I'm just driving. Yeah I'm more just like well I know what color every car is and what dumb move they might make and where I'm going to go if they do it. Yeah yeah. Yeah and that's yeah that's my like mindset the whole time and I know how to do those things and I could still end up dead. The odds for them are higher and mean they when they passed her on her test. I mean how my friend that passed away like he passed the the test that he knew how to ride and got a license and then I taught him how to ride a motorcycle after it's because he'd still didn't know anything. Yeah and then by the time we're on the street I just can't you cannot create all the things that I've learned over the years quickly and so I was like yeah we won't survive if you're not here so we're gonna go ahead and keep you in a big lift of truck. Another another thing about out here and obviously is every city is different. There are a ridiculous number of people in Vancouver that are horrible drivers and have no idea what's going on around them. So there's an extra complete veil of unawareness over everyone on the freeway and it makes it even worse for the people on the bikes. Oh I agree that's why I stopped having motorcycles my living's got some. No I love those things man. There's a lot of snow here. It was slower I was like yeah okay I can manage the traffic here better. Right there I was like it's not if it's when so I sold my bikes and didn't have them for years and I moved out here and I was like I can do it again here so I bought some more. No I know I see some guys I follow go to the track and like have a good time and I'm like oh man that piece so much I'd love that. Like like I totally get it but I just think man I just I've seen a lot and there's been a lot of people I know that aren't around anymore and I just think fuck. You know you know it's crazy here is and I've kind of it's normalized to me but Victoria pointed it out I don't know if you guys have laws there but here in Michigan there's no helmet law. So there are people that are flying around they don't have a helmet on. Oh yeah helmet I have the wall cannon that we're everything's regulated. Yeah but you dusty do you guys have helmet law? No we don't okay we don't here but it's one of those things too where when I was younger my mindset was if I go down I don't want to get back up. And now that I'm older and I have other things I live for beyond me I'm like okay I would like to get back up if I go down so we're there but um no it's interesting there's there's a lot of takes on a lot of things like that wrong that I think are interesting like I told Scott the other day I think that every person should know how to handle firearm. Like when I left town last week I was like hey girls there's yours you know how to use it if someone comes in you can do it from the balcony and go back to bed. Go back to bed because you know what to do and it's funny but I mean as a parent when you leave your house and you know that that's something they can do. Yeah I slept easy I'm like yeah you know there's multiple reasons not to come in this house between the dogs and that and you're good to go. Yeah I absolutely love your laws about defending your property and yourself dusty it's just one of the things as a Canadian the most andvious of you know now that we got our new government I might be they might be taken everything away and like literally coming to your house and taking it. That's fair enough I know what I mean like it's it's I'm living in a strange world. Yeah I want to throw this out there and it is political so I have a preface of that you know when people say like oh what do you need all that for what do you need to know how to do this for and what do you need to know how to do tactical stuff for this stuff that you won't be able to stop. Well you know what it's because yeah that's there's that there's that and you know what I think that here in the US will probably never in my lifetime need to know the stuff that I've been learning but the important thing is is that I do and that we can continue doing it because it might be not me but the next generation or the generation after that eventually the way that society is go they are going to want to clamp down you know and the only reason they can't do it here is because we can fight back. Yep we need to keep that might be might be 200 years from now that we need it but we need to keep it. I was telling Ron Scott I was at the yeah so I'm gonna run somebody and they were asking like how common is it where you live in the south and I was in the cigar lines I said well there's 30 people in here and I would guess to make that 25 are armed. Yeah and they're like really and I said and shit doesn't happen here. Yeah yeah yeah I got a send you to the dusty there was a post from Colowin Noar. He posted that there was a robbery of a gas station and everybody has to or like all four people in the store should have a guy. Handled yeah moving on people are gonna do a lot you're gonna think twice going into a place if you knew everybody could take you out you know you're gonna fight back. Yeah it's classic. I love that one video of that diner that's getting robbed and the guy's going down at the bag and he's taking everybody's shit and then he kind of started kind of does this waves it around a bit and the old man just pops him. Yep that's good from sea to position just pop pop pop and while he's kind of you know when he's moving waving his gun around talking yelling everyone just sits is just state seated like I like the fish or dinner. It's been handled I know I just have absolutely no problem with that and and I live in a country where like there's a crazy story just a few days ago this guy got arrested for stealing a car was trying to steal a car with someone in it so I attempt to car jacking it arrested released later that damn bail later that day gets a gets arrested for a assaulting a woman gets out on bail that same day again. The second time. The second time. Then the next day he gets arrested again and released on bail again. Come on guys. Yeah and it's our justice system like the judges have their hands tied because there's just so much nonsense written into our criminal code about like wow you know these these people have mental health issues and this is this you know drugs and mental health issues. Yeah just I don't know what's going on in Canada man but these people are not spending a they're not spending a single night in jail and they're just getting re-released to re-offend. They said there's a handful of people in Vancouver that were responsible for 6,000 arrests last year and they can't keep that handful of people just locked in a cage for the rest of time. I don't understand. Lake you want to talk about for the benefit of society. Yeah. So we can remove six thousand. It's like 11 people. There was multiple like 6,000 stupid arrests. You know shoplifting and vandalizing and freaking this and that blah blah blah blah on and on and on nonstop. Has it got the manpower and the cops in the paper work. Like so we have problems up here real problems but we elected the same government. They're gonna get blows me away. The blows me away nothing will change and then people will be like man things are getting real bad here while you voted for it. Yeah. Yeah. So well on that we got. Yeah. So I love your speed. I love your bikes. I love that they're cool. I love that they go fast but use your head. Okay agreed. Use your head. Don't do 250 kilometers an hour on the freeway for a video. And I like that you all got to work from home for a while but listen. We got around that up. Get back. So Scott and I can roam around freely. I love those people that have like three full-time jobs and none of the employers know about them and all three screens go in and they're just like marketing writing copy for one company and doing data analysis for another and data entry for another. Wow. They're pulling in three full-time salaries. I just think that's a wizard. I didn't even know that was a thing. That's a thing. Oh yeah. Yeah. Oh three totally separate companies. I've nothing to do with each other and they're just like what do you make 180,000? How do you do that? 60,000 at a time. Yeah. Yeah. At least 60K jobs. We got AI doing all their data entry for one of them. Just crazy. It's amazing. Okay. Okay thanks guys. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. That one might be good for comments. That whole episode. I think it definitely did. Okay. Remember I am you in dot com. Go to I am you dot com. Get your ice search. Get your all in and everyone should get on a gear. Okay. Don't drive stupid and learn how to use fire arm to defend your home. Yes. Yes. There we go. Thank you everybody for Patreon. You guys are awesome. Yes. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you very much. And give us a hit. Why don't you hit us with some questions? Hit this this episode in particular plaster your questions on it and then scottagol through it next week. Yes. Absolutely good. Okay. Thanks everybody and remember this shirt might be available soon. Dusty's Dusty's responsible for this one of course. Yes. Okay. It's just body building.

I mean like you're you're what trying to go like this against like you know the gym is like all underneath you like you know you're pulling them all up right dusty like that you know we kind of like did that that that non-start that one week and it worked really well you like the start you know I noticed you've done the non-start a lot of times and I think you always gravitated to work the non-start I think yeah deep down a side even if you didn't know it you liked it well well it never the less welcome to it's just bodybuilding we don't know it episode number anymore but I think we're over 170 is this 170 I have the one I look when we when I edit but yeah about 170 yes it is you're right dusty so you know we can say one well we can't guarantee a ton of 70 it is it will be yeah yeah all right and we're uh you know remember like share subscribe comment ring the bell and ring the bell I've been trying to go through the comments and like respond a bit I saw that yeah you know because it's fun say you know I like interacting with everyone I haven't been on my phone for three fucking days barely whoo because we just had that big double show this weekend oh yeah right so it was like a super crazy ridiculous weekend for me I haven't been to West Coast Iron for over three days haven't even been in the show it's hey not still there guys I looked on Instagram and it's still there and the staff are all still the staff are all still there apparently and um haven't gotten any phone calls in the late night from far to part of anything like that so I'm gonna go in today I hear it's still there today there's apparently photoshoot happening so because you were gone for like eight days just got everything around England but you came home for like seven minutes they took three more days off yeah crazy you fancy yeah and then on Wednesday I fly to Toronto for the weekend because my training partner Brayden is doing the national's good for him the cool and nice all I'm gonna say is that he will easily be the very best he's ever been by like you know like I mean he competed exactly a year ago and he was the 204 on stage or whatever he actually weighed yeah and uh I mean like right now he's like two 15 in the morning and he does a lead dioretics nice just peeled so you know we're just we're just happy you know like it's there's no pressure on this show really it's just it's uh we know he's going to do fantastic you know his vacuums were ridiculous like he's one of those guys that has like like a shocking vacuum get some pictures for the let's see how he turns out yeah yeah yeah yeah we can go in his Instagram he's not shy all right rose it up you know yeah throw his Instagram up through the palm trip there see like a fine here he's going to national's all around so shows itself naked all the time on there yeah sure let's just put on shirtless pegs shirtless pegs whoops did I just show you my tattoo my bad well my bad hit me to show you my tattoo ladies mone pose oh he has been putting up he has been he's put up multiple hamstring videos lately multiple hamstring videos here he is all he has been making a shit of like Ian put his ass out there yeah hey Ron can you get a set for me and then he gets down on the hyper bench he's got a really cool short story behind him it's awkward yeah yeah I mean I filmed it always but there we go cover the porn stuff yeah we'll book the porn tabs I've got diets up that's it here pull that net pull up thing you just put up his latest posts his post up oh yeah just he just put up some mirror shots at the gym yeah that looks good you know scrolls like his or her celly yeah scroll how uh how much is he weighing now you said he was he weighed how much of this much he'd be he was 204 on stage I think I know he weighed like 205 yeah yeah 125 so he was like 204 on stage and then here in these pictures of the gym he's like 215 216 no kidding nice that's a great amount of progress to have made in one season you know a lot of drugs log it's so hilarious because that's that's the joke it was all it was was a massive cruise yeah I'm kidding and staying relatively good shape okay like not pushing the way it up like crazy just like eating to be big you know and you know I think I don't even think you got to it's heavy a stepper his heaviest ever was like 260 I think and then the last off season I don't know if you even went over thinking mighty hit 250 maybe okay so you know and just like just training and eating that was it yeah and then start the prep again right like with a big break it's a lower lats there I like that lower lat hanging his yeah so you know he's using using good shape that's cool yeah the third one down see the first one oh yeah yeah I didn't know so he's done some shots with mutin you know and not to inside his garage jemmy's got his own jemmy do he is the coolest gym let's see if he has any pictures of his gym up yeah his video the compound okay yeah some screw down a little bit here because his jemmy's one of the night this is from his jem this is one of the nicest home jemms that I have ever seen in my entire life he's gone as far as to like repout her coat machines so that they patched that's a nice shot of right there yeah yeah he's in great shape you know he's six feet tall so he's in that that 220 cap classic yeah you know he's in the the bumstead class when bumstead was an amateur but all bumstead turn pro's a body or turn pro's a bodybuilder I'm looking for his jem here this is that's less mister no yeah that's all less goes keep scrolling that'll be one come up but yeah I got him hooked up with with mutin so it's been going good for him let's see I remember he posted one a long time ago this is what there's one yeah yes so this is sitcom jemmy if that kid even flake in there he calls it the compound can you blow that up at all I can't actually wait maybe I can let's see what this does there we go oh boy you know we got all the flags and shit you know he's even got I would even got like an out of order treadmill just like a real jem right like literally that's the fucking jokery's got like an out of order treadmill like oh yeah real jem you know I mean he's out a lot of people over to train there you know but like hammer machines fucking I carry in or whatever he's got in there uh some like to stuff at lannis stuff our old ceded calf raise out of the jim yeah in place the circus car still then still got a place to park his car which is hard to do I carry inside lateral yeah the flex by sept curl so I I I know all these guys on instagram that that have like you know jim zed are like five times as big in their houses right but they're definitely the the really rare exception like there's a guy yeah see side backs hack he painted it he he ordered new stickers holy shit is on it you know what I mean like he gets aftermarket stickers and puts them on yeah you know so yeah hammering climb like our hammering climb because we wound up getting a new one kind of for free so we we sold them the old one then he pissed is this this in-clinery here is this hammer that's a magnum oh okay I like that converging uh Magnum in-clin yes have a really good feel me being an equipment nerd there's a story about that press if you look at it it goes too deep for for big guys yeah so when you when you get into it it's like really hard to get into because it's sits too deep for big guys yeah so the guy learned it before it took a hockey puck on that side yeah and bolted it to the frame so the the arm comes down and it sits one hockey puck higher this is so Canadian not like a piece of wood it had to be a hockey puck yeah and so it's like it's going to hockey puck a hockey puck mod on it yeah and it makes it an awesome machine because now you can get into it you know you can squeeze and do it it sits a little higher yeah not a plant that shoulder press is awesome yeah that's the minor shoulder press right there yeah that looks good it was adjustable too yeah yeah but anyways just crazy Jim calls at the compound he's got a couple of signed bum stead photos up there on the wall yeah Chris gave him see can't Chris like handle over those or something yeah yeah well Chris trained with us like we trained with us dad you know yeah so you know that's pretty cool man yeah and then you know really like that smithre he's got a TV up there he's played he'll put like a J-cut their video on yeah and we'll train oh yeah you know blasts him he is it can put an old J-cut their video on it's not a trend there for a while we got it we got to hammer some sessions there because it's been a while so everything you could possibly need you know so since then that old leg press there he can get rid of that now because he bought a sidebecks leg press to match the hack oh yeah and I'm not sure if he has it painted and installed yet okay yeah I like that hack squat a lot like that's a nice that's a nice machine it's crazy that he went through all the work of like repouter coding and getting the stickers you know yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah pretty cool so but enough about him fuck but that's how you got it you got it my show talk about your guy you see him in person oh yeah I saw him and I knew it was him but like you know I'm fucking tied up with stuff of course you know you're just getting shit so I got all that's Scott's guy and I remember giving him like a nod and I was hoping to meet him but I you know I don't I don't think I actually met him oh no kidding yeah I don't think it's you were a busy guy you know here's a couple of shots so I'll give you an example I saw it like he looked great how did he wind up placing I don't even remember so he did true novice this is his first show and he won that out of 14 guys so he was pretty happy with that and then in his open class he said there was like there's like I don't know it was either eight or ten guys he was like there's just so many of him and he ended up getting third place there yeah meaning I know he won the overall yeah meaning he ended up taking out a bunch of people who probably had more experience than him obviously he's not the biggest guy yet you know he's he's a taller guy he was great yeah and we that's all we really could do was make sure we nailed the condition I just hope now that he's able to put on the muscle he needs to because if you can do that you know he'll obviously continue to be competitive you know yeah yeah I don't think I met him like I don't think I actually met him but the funny thing is is I saw a couple of pitches on Instagram that I don't remember taking yeah it was a blur so yeah that was very intense yeah here classic was really really competitive overall classic was fantastic yeah you know unlike half of course half the guys in classic could have just walked in the body but in classes and the body but in classes what a look fucking great sure yeah yeah but I don't know why people feel like they shouldn't do it I just don't get it oh his name's Matt Flynn by the way yeah Matt Flynn yeah yeah yeah Matt I remember I remember reading his name like you know what I mean yeah and I remember I'm waiting that that true knob is that was kind of a to me that was obvious just by walking around on the stage I didn't see fun with guys but I'm glad funny thing funny thing about this show was it was in a new venue so we moved it to a casino so we're in like a Delta hotel like it's all inclusive it's beautiful it's like okay you know like fantastic so we got a giant ballroom right yeah and we set up the lights and everyone looked great like if you look at pitches of the two-twelfth pros they're fucking peel they look awesome so we were really happy with how people looked but from the side stage where I am standing people don't look good oh no kidding it's just for my view you know what I mean like just from my view people were like you know okay but when you just walked around front it was like the transformed right so you know because your view as MC is always different like every show is different because the lighting is different and some of it's terrible for an MC but knowing cares that's not what they set light up for yeah so it's his funny but then like so you know it sort of made everyone look equally conditioned from like my brutal side angle right but then when I walked around it's kind of peeked around the front of the line at one point and he was hard as nails nice yeah yeah we definitely brought like I said man when that was our I knew we could do that and with him he was he really was eating a lot of food still like in the last week man we were just hammering and that was no dioretics we did manipulate water a little bit I think he was drinking like four leaders a day on average so I pushed him up to seven I believe it was maybe eight for a couple days and then we started tapering it back down and by the time we got to the show he was still drinking like four or five right awesome yeah no it was a great show we had a you know an open show all day Saturday and a natural show all day Sunday and remember last week when Scott said no one cares about natural shows yeah that was super funny how did it turn out fucking awesome yeah anything sold you know everything sold yeah so he'd show two twelve was fantastic romaine oh I don't want to say his last name wrong I was I didn't say rest moose man I gotta look at that this guy you just sent me yeah he's romaine remassity romaine remassance look at he looks really good oh no that's that's my client that that he looks really good yeah he won the the novice body building and stuff and those novice good for him yeah he won novice body building and got second in the heavy weights hell yeah he was conditioned as fuck his name's John thick on Instagram nice so check it out but yeah it was crazy crazy event I am see the whole thing everyone worked super hard everyone was on their feet for 14 hours a day three days in a row because Friday was like we literally arrived at the venue with everything unloaded everything like taped up the floors did everything like we all did that like hands on the team you know we had a team of volunteers and all of us working together and you know setting up the venue and setting up all the vendors came in and set up all their tables and boost you know just crazy assembly day of everything and then we all had to be done by new because that's when we were like gonna kick into registrations and all that stuff registered you know 300 people and in like almost 500 different classes and uh and got everything wrapped up on and we did it all on time it was crazy we registered the two 12 pros we had the five of clock meeting on time with the pros boom boom boom every one weighed in done deal and we wrapped it up and the show ran like clockwork like I was it it just went so well like the team just operated well and all the athletes listening it was just like like it was fantastic so we're just all of this like I'm just on cloud nine today like we just I feel like I just hit home runs all weekend you know so yeah it was good time I mean I'm sure somebody somewhere is unhappy but we just haven't heard about it yet you know like you got a message and happy yeah just fantastic stuff like Roman he message me after the show and he said that was the best experience of my life I've qualified to the Olympia pull this is unbelievable your show was awesome like he just had a great time you know what I mean that's so when you hear that when you hear that from like you know the athletes it's uh you know they should feel pretty good about stuff you know yeah just sharing a win we're sharing just sharing a win I like wins yeah you got to do that once in a while you know and just trying to thank the athletes and everyone who listens they got a ton of people come up to the other's new podcast and you know it's just like just like how we were at the UK dusty like this is another body building event and I was just completely like completely just getting hammered by people saying hey listen to show listen to the show you know and then um I had two people tell me you got to bring dust yet for it next year oh yeah although don't expect us to like tape the floors and stuff just no no no no no no no no no but maybe we can maybe it maybe I can get me to bring them up for a shoot and you just have to be here for the show I could pay someone to do my part in the taping no no you don't have to do any taping I'm pretty come on yes come up as it yes we're gonna make you look worthy I'm like I might make you go to Scott that I took it like way to the side we should do what we do alive alive podcast the night of yeah you're funny that'd be cool you know so yeah and it's funny and another thing too like the last couple times I MCed it I was like it was pretty exhausting like yeah and and I thought fuck I can't do that like forever I can't do a two-day show like all the time like I'm gonna have to find you know farm that off yeah and then so this year I was like well I guess I'll do it again because I never farmed it off to the last minute and find anyone else so it would be good to do it and and you know what by themselves and but then after this weekend it went so well that I'm like I don't want anyone else to do it yeah I job now like I didn't realize I was gonna be my job but that's my job now I thought that was my job to get things going you know like all MC it for you know first few years and but now I'm like no no I don't never want to not MC that show you know well super fun you know just a lot of fun and you know we had Tarekil Gindi up to head judge nice the Saturday show because we had the pros right and so you know knowing he was coming up too you know you're like oh well you know the house better be clean you know coming up you know bringing up an American head judge at does he Olympia you know you want to make sure of these in order so that was cool he had a great time and love the venue and you know so well yeah so I look forward to the van city showdown again next year that's my little shout out to my own shit for this week that's cool I want to Jersey I want to Jersey shirt just so you know yeah those are cool you know there's there's certain things like you know you can only really fit so much into your thoughts right so we're having these team meetings and I hear someone say hey we should all get a Jersey matching jerseys like the the team should have matching jerseys you know the promotional team and I heard them all what kind of jersey but and and and and about that many words into the conversation my brain just went oh doesn't matter and I just stopped listening to anything about jerseys because I just I don't go to fuck just whatever you have me I'll put it on I'll go to fuck so I got other stuff to think about right like I do that you have to partition your like importance of stuff like oh they're talking about the brownies that someone's gonna bake yeah you can only make so many decisions yeah yeah I don't even care like what like you know I just opt to go so uh so they came up and had to be that shirt on Friday when we went to set up and I was like oh these are fucking cool and I got a triple XL and it's actually like a little big but I'm like all this is gonna be a great late day shirt yeah absolutely it's like old school long nice if you could put you could you could you could pull the ultimate meat head move you could put your fanny pack over the long baseball top well tell you hold it up properly I like that I saw Dorian do that that's how Dorian was wearing his fanny pack when I met him he had an over top of baseball jersey hell yeah hey that's the look does that you could bring that back I bring it back because I'm doing fuck what's doing over time I love the jersey though the jersey I immediately was like we need those from you and sure that's all I'm like I need one of those and I know a guy who make him Ron actually knows a guy he isn't the guy didn't know about the fucking brownies what if they're weed brownies what if you either too many of them nobody told you you're fucked you gotta listen to that shit well I'm probably not gonna eat the brownies on party so oh I would fuck sorry anyways what just we can scout yeah what's your weekend sky yeah yeah to client in my show but you also had a life outside of that hardly it would you know little work it's nothing nothing fancy spent the weekend with the wife we went to pick up a bunch of vegetables at the farmers market you know that kind of thing she purchased gourds for the front porch so you have like the the mums and the gourds and the pumpkins and you do like a little like a little thing little little fall spread you know so we've got that going on so she did that I went to the range that was that was it work that was a lot of like old school just down what do you mean you know home home depot maybe bad back and yeah I don't know full-time it was totally like that it was totally like that yeah as you were talking I was like porch it was very low key it was our assorts good right where you gonna shop gonna be or not you're gonna play a banjo got it love it it's good what about you dusty I'm always doing shit now I don't even know yeah the bottom motorcycle went for a very expensive steak dinner and drove somewhere close to the road yeah yeah yeah how was that it was a busy it was a busy couple days because I close on the house on Thursday went to Atlanta on Friday saw Rogan went to dinner at STK woke up the next morning went drove to a gastroids like two hours away from there and picked up a bike and then drove it home no kidding quick quick yeah but in fairness I had planned on buying the bike for like 30 or 40 minutes before I did it so that was cool why did you buy what's your bike I saw so I'll be honest with you dusty yes here's me as a as a brother who loves you being honest I saw the bike on the story was it's story or post yes both okay well something came through my feed and I saw like a video panning of a bike yes and I looked up and it said dusty handshaw oh eight and I went bullshit and I scrolled past it didn't even want to see it I was like I nope he didn't buy a bike nope that didn't happen I'm just gonna not read the there it is he really knows you're making it real he was more real what is happening live yeah so it's a nice train or something it's all black it's a it's a road glide but it's black is the only color I think the heart is should be available and I needed to be black as it matches the truck so that that was part of that those were the keys you know I mean but I haven't I hadn't ridden in about six years I had a bike my first car was a bike so it's been a little bit I got on the frame for a minute it took about 10 minutes for me to feel like super comfortable again I was like damn it's been a minute but yeah I didn't kill myself in the first 10 minutes so we're uh we're in business and now it's the only thing in my new house currently nice good habits okay so okay so I have a feeling I know the answer but I'm gonna ask you this question is does that bike have do you have the intention of actually taking that bike on the road like packing up those like packing it up and going somewhere on it like is that or is that for Sunday rides yeah I know I cruise around like I'll go like an hour and a half two hours I'm like trying to if I go in long distance there will I'll be inside of my truck it'll be on a trailer hardly people are crying right now hearing that I don't give a fuck it's like it's like it's like camping like I'm gonna go camping it's gonna be like at the W oh try right right yeah we go in camping yeah but it does have a radio which is cool and you know see you and set up and play off your Spotify which is important for Ron yeah we're all set it's basically a two-wheeled couch oh and I did I've been buying furniture today by the way oh my life I think I'll buy a couch today I put new flooring in the upstairs the house today where I paid for it it was an expensive fucking day yeah good good carpet in my house I don't like carpet so first thing I had to call somebody they're removing on Friday putting it on the flooring so we're in business that I can move in but yeah it's been an expensive morning I don't know you know those love sack couches not the fucking bean bag the actual couch you can buy like sections and make them as big as you want and yeah you want yeah awesome but what I'm gonna talk about because it hurt my soul a little bit the total came up and I'm like hmm all right about a second motorcycle cool fuck damn but but the reason it's cool is because if anything happens say you happen to have two Yorkies or children who might fuck it up you can actually take the cover off and replace the cover if you want so like your couch isn't like fucked if someone stands in yeah or if you're a 40 year old two year old that approach for all yourself and what did you call that couch lovesack as they see love they're awesome fact you you create your own sectional or whatever you want you have to get one on it's amazing really why are you okay it's a fact of self is we need a new coach look at me something that fuckers better sponsor me so here's like for the average time you're even saying the same dusty 20 yet love sign exactly this is the time yeah you know we we actually went to buy the couch we have we just went to buy the new model because it's perfect and like all this not making it we don't have anymore yeah we're like oh fuck so now I'm gonna check this out imagine if you could build the couch of your dreams and you can who knew it'll cost your soul whatever yeah oh yeah they're classy looking too get the modern look to them absolutely yeah so right now that's they have a motorcycle in my house and nothing else so that's interesting my neighbors but I think I'm not I've been there twice just to pick it up and leave come back so yeah anyways that's the life what do we got for questions Scott it's going on well I had one question in particular that I I pulled to the front actually I got this message on DM and I said do me a favor and send that to me on the show like post it on the latest episode that way I'll remember because guys if you DM me questions for any of the shows it's like you send that to me on Tuesday we record next Monday we've recorded five other shows since then I there's no chance unless you're from Patreon then I will do my best but what did this one go even just get lost the one yeah I did it was like the question maybe it was at the end here um oh here it is yes I would go from Randy he says hi guys awesome show DM Scott a suggestion for a topic and was redirected here the topic is Jim etiquette and the evolution of what it is now mirror etiquette also with all the new plate loaded machines while you're doing it working set people returning their plates to the machine because they double as weight storage in the middle of a heavy set and feel the machine is shaking a bit from somebody returning plates am I an asshole for being pissed about that again I appreciate the hard work that everyone puts into the shows thanks for having just you Scott rock run like a show up but yeah good job Scott thank you I can't comment Randy on whether or not you're an asshole or not because I'm certainly am and that shit drives me fucking back shit like anything that's on my machine is mine during my set when the bar is moving you cannot put anything on my machine you get touch my machine you might as well fucking touch the bar I'm using go bang and around on that shit what I see just during your set while you're pushing out and you see it and they hit the machine I just ever so subtle what the fuck are you doing during tens to get people's attention and they're probably never happening with that person because their machine also has weight tree capabilities why are you on mine why fuck is wrong with you it reminds me of parking okay same deal I've parking a lot I'm way in the back away from everyone why is there always an 86 accord park to me when I fucking walk out to the car again a matter where I parked that was my whole zone back there my machine my parking spot is it the same node is a bottom in the same yes for people Randy I like you whoever you are I don't remember the first part of the question but you don't touch my fucking and Jim etiquette the mirrors has it changed that was as it changed over the years that's what he was as Ron would know if it's changed I've hated people my entire life go ahead well I don't know I don't know if it's changed there's always been people that left their weights out there's always been people that you know fucking didn't wipe their bench off there's always been people that you know carried their big fucking floppy open Jim bag around fucking through it on the floor like a mattress you know there's always people like mattress you know like to bring in their fucking mattress around them like that's my entire you know it's eight foot square space you know you know it just in considerate people are not a new thing and then also too it's not in still in always in considerate blissfully unaware people who just have for some reason never learned like spatial respect and like I don't know respect for like work happening it's just a concept in the brain right like I don't know where I you know I guess my dad it was always like any time anything was an operation I grew up on a farm so anytime anything was operating it was like stand back yeah right and I was stand back or you'll get your fucking arm ripped off oh yeah well because that little kids had reached into shit and the fucking boom their arms gone and it happened on farms and these to show us videos like education videos when we were in like when I was a little kid in school that showed us like videos of like amputee kids in missing arms back this is you know this is you know Teddy he reached into an auger and lost his arm don't be like Teddy like I remember seeing like videos like that dang I never saw those videos and I know you didn't either dusty right I would have never seen a video of Teddy losing his arm that would really driven a driven home better we got a little more hit to yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah you're just you're just learning just learn how and then it it crosses over is all I'm saying I don't know they're not learning as young as young people and then there's there's nothing to cross over to like adult life so I don't need like you know some people like they must have the mirror like yeah I'm not obsessive about the mirror like because I'm doing like I'm not like a lot of raising I know what the fucking doing it's fine and it whatever but I do have to admit one time I was doing I can't remember I think I was gonna shoulder press dumbbells and a girl came in front of me and proceeded to take her hair down and then turn and make sure she had it back up while using the mirror directly in front of me and then turned around to see it and then she looked at me and I'm like I should oh my god it was like she forgot she wasn't in the change room right then in there at least she didn't that's the blissfully unaware that you were saying wrong like as it was happening because like I said I'm not really a huge mirror person I was kind of laughing I'm like this can happen right now isn't it and sure as fuck I watched her like style her whole hair up and get already but I was at least a little warm in the heart when she realized she was a fucking idiot I was like that I girl that's like I don't know your it out that's funny yeah yeah you shouldn't you shouldn't play somebody's machine so here's another thing here's a sidebar I have done it to someone yeah I I remember there was a girl doing hip thrust on the smith and she was like using like hardly any weight like five pounds aside and she was doing like ten second wraps like it was some sort of like super slow no untraining thing and I just quietly put some plates on the machine non-trading thing but this is my new phrase like I don't know he's doing some new non-training thing but but I remember I put my plates like quietly on the smith and on the on the rack you know what I mean and I remember thinking like I'm not even vibrating the machine I'm doing a really nice job of this like I was conscious of the fact that I was breaking a a rule but I was like being so good about it that I was like hey I get away with this you know I remember doing that it's so funny that he asked that question because that's the first thing I thought I was I did that to that I did that the other day she didn't notice her anything and like didn't say anything but just in my head it was a thing yeah you know it was a thing does he's like you did break a rule I do it all the time though I will say that during like a rant of something that irritates me and I'm like and I fucking done this but you shouldn't fucking do this I'm like I'm a hypocrite but anyways back to the reason I'm right about this moment terrible this is I have something kind of related kind of and I think about it because I went off my poor client Patrick his name is actually Patrick Moore he's different Patrick Moore not the black guy he's the white Patrick Moore he's done a great job though and he needs to bring his name strings up yeah he needs to bring his hamstrings up like most white guys and I asked him to shoot me some video and he shot me some video and I looked at it and I sent him a voice memo back and what I felt he needed to do was be more intense with it and it looked like he was training in a crunch fitness and I went off on this whole tangent in this voice mail poor guy had to listen to for like five minutes of me saying that I think that one of the problems we have you know we can't all train at at gyms like west coast iron you know it's just not every city has one of those and if you do train in a place like that you're among like minded people who are all trying to more or less do the same thing which is growing incredible amount of muscle and that's not going to be you know that the non-training stuff you were mentioning around like you have to you have to train hard you have to take this to failure it's going to be uncomfortable and I think that in a place like crunch fitness people who train really hard are kind of looked at differently because it's it's they're going for mediocrity and I think that's striving for it yeah it's it's a lot harder to excel in a place like that because after a while I've trained in a place like that before that you do start drifting into that you know I'm just doing my workout like everybody else it's very hard than everybody here yeah exactly and that's not saying much but I went off on this whole tangent about it and I just remember the end of my tangent was like and if you're going to grow your hamstrings you need to take it was like you need to go to hell click that was like the end of my voice my one was like damn Scott that was pretty intense but but that's the truth though I mean as I feel like you know a lot of times it's it's frowned upon to try too hard in a gym like that so I guess it's almost a reminder that you know what maybe we aren't meant to fit in in places like that and there is some level of etiquette to that like everybody wants to be really polite and quiet and I don't know yeah it's well you know a rising tide you know raises all ships right so when you're in an environment where everybody's on their way up sometimes you get dragged along with them like that's you know everyone's doing their cardio fuck it's easier to do your cardio it is yeah everyone's fucking trained in hard around you the guys next year going hard like it is like that that stuff has helped me through like a lot of workouts being in the right gym has made an enormous difference like I've trained at health clubs I had a world health membership so that I could just get out of like you know I had to pay that hardcore gym in M&10 for 13 years you know it was a powerhouse at the end there but you know I trained there for almost 14 years and you know I always had a health club membership you know go to World Health once in a while and you know we check out some chicks on the treadmill you know how goes you know go do arms at midnight you know you have a really you maybe you have one of those days where you're just fucking bagged and you just fucking can't like you just can't and then at like 11 p.m. you're like fuck I can finally go train arms now like I finally feel okay like yeah that days like that and maybe go to World Health and bang out in arm workout you know so like but if I tried to train in those gyms for long period of time it it would like it mean it's hard it's like I mean like you're you're what trying to go like this against like you know the gym is like all underneath you like you know you're pulling them all up right dusty like that I didn't really understand the double jerk off I mean I was like well I don't that's this medium that's just me there was also like two hands way more than needed um anyway wow you know if you're in it if you're in a pinch you can use a pillow but I'm like I'm so following the whole city is like you're working off of it I just always happen to get more your turn is that's I don't think I was following it very well there I knew where dusty wet because I looked at his face it just had just like what I mean like you're you're what trying to go like this against like you know the gym is like all underneath you like you know you're pulling them all up I saw that it's like a dog dog so the dog and then I knew exactly what happened on my call does he's laughing at my hand movement and then you know I've do this to all the other members of like what's the one that yeah yeah yeah yeah we're helping him up justice yeah helping him up you're bringing them all up your level okay this good point though yes guys is you do not have to jerk off people here why why you do they're gonna come to your level hey they'll train harder if you jerk them off to the train hard that's hard or that's just awkward to see everybody train harder oh this is the episode that ends the fucking show here we go more technically I have been jerked off by members of gyms that I've trained at I mean we all have god um anyways the next question all right actually the next question is a comment from bass and bodybuilding he said dusty's overrated underrated game is iron point oh yeah we're gonna play that again we had a lot of comments about that people liked it that's beautiful I have some more saves so we can nice we should definitely do that all right yeah she could round a lot of comments here another comment from Neil he says guys be careful when you eat steak if you use dusty 20 yes you should be more focused on your steak at that point just about I had a giant steak before the show by the way but anyways you eat a lot of steak still dusty your steak consumption is actually is it higher? oh for sure and I'm a addicted at Tomahawk's now hmm five minute curl yeah amazing amazing show is always last five minute crew and dusty's new segment is fucking awesome see again question for the next show I have some neck pain going on waiting to get in for a cat scan been going on for a while but what's thoughts on taking a muscle relaxer I stay away from NSAIDs and stuff but fuck is it stiff? it'd be hard to say well I don't know man I mean I mean it just depends I've had some like really bad neck issues in the last like five years where I've heard so bad it was so tight and it was all related to my neck muscles in the front and my upper packs and you know in my shoulders and stuff and you know once I started having like because I all admit I quit getting worked them for a long time because I was like wow I'm just I'm not bodybuilding anymore and you know blah blah and then the neck just like I just you know couldn't get it to fucking really really go away you know kind of plagued me off and on and it's been a lot better now that I've been getting more worked on I started getting worked on it and made a huge difference and I know that that's like such a yeah get worked on it yeah this guy's probably tried that but you know I don't know just having somebody directly going to the front of my neck and then in my packs was a game changer and it's fucking painful when they've worked them on yeah I agree yeah that like front of the neck thing or they pull it to the side oh god yeah and then in my shoulder blades a bit too there's some some funky stuff going on in there so all right you guys want to jump to the next one because I don't think we really have a ton for him on that one no no all right he says uh hey guys listening every week from the UK absolutely love the show and the knowledge you guys share so if I have a question I have been pushing the food up for four weeks the first two weeks not an issue at all it went down a bit too easy but after that I have been feeling really bloated and uncomfortable and holding a bit of water retention my cycle is 500 milligrams premo 500 NPP and 600 test E 60 T ball daily and I'm running 1 milligram of a remadex daily as well any advice on this would be appreciated and keep up the good work well first lower your remadex dose yeah yeah so there's a lot there I mean obviously don't know what the guy looks like or what his history is but if we're just talking about like that snapshot and I'd take my best guess I mean not like I'm gonna tell people you know how much to fucking use and shit but I would drop the NPP completely because it's possible that he's having like an angelone issues if he's super bloated just just drop it just you don't still need it may even just both in fact drop everything but the test and maybe just want to remadex a week and just train this see what happens you might look way better like and feel way better I mean who knows I think what you know I don't know I'm just spit it on yeah but when you factor in the timeline what you're saying makes perfect sense of course you notice first two weeks no those drugs and hit yet yeah yeah there's really built up in the system they're active and stuff and they're you know triggering signals and all that but they're not like you know populated or receptors fully yet so you're shot in with a ton and that's the I mean I'm assuming you've never done the cycle based on the response so it like runs it it's hard to nail what's causing the issue so I agree I would definitely like I said my knee jerk was the one I remember that every day is a ton I don't think we've realized how much that is I mean I would do a half of one twice a week maximum one twice a week and you should be fine but yeah considering the only the only drug he's on that converts to estrogen is the test and he's only on 600 yeah yeah that's just a lot I don't think people realize how a expensive really remember that's it's in B how hard it is in the body everyone's so afraid of the drugs they take and don't realize what taking AI is can do what they're the high double so pull those back and then I do the same thing runs it you know take everything back start with a pre-mo be the first thing I put back in the other questions you know test only then add the pre-mo back and see where you're at you know and same thing with the T ball I mean that could be affecting your appetite not necessarily a lot of attention but that could be affecting the appetite for sure so the next move with that is if you put that back in take it before bed instead of first thing in the morning or whatever you're using it because a lot of people have appetite issues that's a good way to sneak past that as you take to sleep um it's about it I haven't tried that before with the world yeah before yeah just take the whole dose before bed if you have it yeah I mean some people still have appetite issues after that but it can be it can be the one step that works you know the last last thing you can do I think I wonder like is his a Rimmidex real you know like is his is his research stuff you know that's actually like is any of the milligrams yeah yeah that is the question real Scott oh yeah no oh okay oh about this one matrix jerry weans says question for the next show who is the most underrated body builder you've ever seen in person I got one to start us out Dave plumbo everybody looks at David David they're like oh yeah polomboism and all of that and intoward the end of his career he didn't have the most pleasing physique you know we never we never look our best all the way through but Dave was a freaking monster and he looked pretty good for a period of time so Dave was the first and original 300 yeah and shredded super freak and and people don't ever connect that anymore they think they think of polomboism or they think of what he looks like now like but Dave was a legit recovery first guy to be 300 pounds that lean like I don't know that's why I mean you said during height there's probably someone you know but I'm just thinking of like body builders Dave's height what is he five ten something like that yeah five nine five yeah how many guys were I mean what was that mid 90s yeah 95 he was like 300 pounds was like fucking veins on his glutes and shit yeah you know I mean obviously Dorian and Nasser were on the scene the biggest pros but I mean Dave was just as heavy as those guys and fucking just never turned pro you know like he did look good for a long time at that size he was huge I remember when I first met polombo was at the I mean what booth would it have been in like 2002 what booth would that have been without a been the MD that yeah with that yeah yeah without a been supplement company booth made enough species yet no but he was with someone and yeah it was it's funny that's a good place with like met metrics like he was because he kept when he posted his diet back in the day he always said metrics packets were like with a meal that was like yeah half his diet were metrics packages and yeah yeah yeah I remember I remember I was emailing with them a bit because of the boards you know we knew each other off muscle mayhem yeah and and and I was like talking about maybe having and prepping right so I went and met him at the booth and I remember I was just like holy fuck he was huge and ripped yeah like solely fucking shredded dry like like nothing on him like fucking stage ready peeled and huge and he was sitting there eating McDonald's french fries that sounds like Dave and I was like hey how's it going and he goes good let's get out of here let's go eat and he had fries already and I go oh so he he had a McDonald's french fries and we walked and I ordered like a burger and fries whatever the fuck I ordered and he ordered another burger just burger and we sat and he ate like just another burger because he was still hungry and drank another drink I think and we sat and talked prep for like 45 minutes you know so cool and then I was like oh good to me man and then like we never wound up working together but that's when I met him but I just remember I was like fuck this guy's fucking crazy looking in person like he was one of the freakiest things at the whole expo that's what I'm saying that was my first Olympia that was my first Olympia expo and I remember thinking like Dave Plobbo and I remember he had on like like cut off jean shorts it's amazing he rocked the juts because he was at the booth right so he looked like he had on like jean shorts and then he had on a plaid lumberjack shirt with a stomp yes that's the year right there oh yeah yeah yeah yeah I don't I don't know if I would count this as underrated but someone who I just what stunned by in person that I never felt got the true love was Tony Freeman yeah Tony Freeman was massive I will never forget you so one of my first trips the Arnold you you come down the escalators you know Scott and then to the right is where you go into the expo and I'm walking behind these guys and they were in like the the stringer shirts and they were all puffed up walking in of course scales at two two oh three and five eleven and I'll never forget because they turned the corner into the door ways and Tony Freeman was standing there just his back facing us and it's washing to flage not like you are not in small town USA anymore technically you are but the fridge came here yeah I mean his his delts look like planets I mean he was inches wide that I ever was my entire career and also how tall was he run six three four no no no he's he's six two that's Freeman's big I some of these guys everyone thinks they're taller just because they're so huge but he's only a little taller than me yeah but he was just absolutely massive and the thing I remember the most was that six two his quads jumped at me more than anything no kidding they they just swept off of his hips and I think if you if he was competing now everyone would be talking about him but in that era there were just too many super freaks I asked Tony Freeman how big his quads were once he was standing at the boot and he had like soccer shorts on and his legs were just fucking humongous and I go hey Tony have you ever put a tape around those fucking things and he goes yeah actually I taped them like he said it was like three weeks out from the Olympia and they were 34 day and that's like in shape like what they you know what I mean he said yeah they were like I think it was like you'll blow a week so to the Olympia I don't remember how many weeks it was but I remember he said there are 34 so the kicker and 70 inches to like a 28 inch waste you know that's yeah well he was so put it this way Tony Freeman had a remarkably good career he one shows he went to multiple Olympias and he placed top three in a lot of shows like I don't pull up his career but so he had a great career like he was a legit pro right and he did it all with a pectare yeah which ruins people and he still did all of that that's how good he is was you know crazy he was bodybuilding but that goes to show what his physique had because you know pectares destroy people's careers like it is fucking over for most of them right yep like pros you know lots of amateurs have a great career competing with the injuries and stuff but that's what keeps him back from being pros right but at the pro level like that that particular injury the pro level is really really devastating and Tony just fucking kept going and like one one to show one a couple shows I think and one to the Olympia multiple times and do you gotta give a guy like that credit that's a good one dusty yeah who's all mine is Tom Prince hmm oh god yes yeah because Tom Prince reason is outside leg of the planet Tom Prince Tom Prince wasn't wasn't in the game that long him and Mike Fran so I were both kind of short lived careers right and Mike Fran so I was very short but Tom you know I mean I mean what did Tom term pro in 97 and when the 97 Nationals in term pro and look done fucking believable and and also the year before that 96 been Craig Titus beat him he was unbelievably good but Titus just fucking beat him somehow and but yeah Tom Prince was great and then he got third at the night of champions one time and you know we went to the Olympia make one time he went to the Olympia I can't remember and and then that was you know kind of the end of the careers 2003 night of champions I think you he went to the Olympia but yeah that's that's the guy man I I knew him I met up with him in Vegas and we went and ate and I knew him through a mutual friend because he coached my friend and we chatted on the bones like he was on mayhem all the time and we were like band-tree back and forth so I went Nate with him and he told me all about like what he did for cycles and what he did for food and it was all just the most like basic like you know just basic basic basic basic basic okay and he just told me everything and he didn't mention like the new bane or any of the problems that had probably arisen by that point yeah you know which I heard stories about afterwards but but yeah he was a real nice guy and any paid for my lunch okay my lunch for me yeah it was just helping to kid out you know that's cool and um and then we went and he's like oh let's go down there and I think I think you know all the other guys are down there and maybe we can meet some more pros yeah walking down there and then I met Vince Comerford and Tracer Colato and like some of those guys yeah yeah it was funny and Tony Pearson I met Tony Pearson that day and um yeah it was funny and then like Tom took off you know and then I went and did my thing I don't know with my friends but yeah he was cool guy and uh fucking freak so wide you know like massive massive frame so he was very underrated body builder it seemed like it came pretty easy for him like he didn't have a single Tom Prince was interesting because there wasn't a single thing about his training diet or drugs that you wouldn't see printed in like a flex magazine okay baby four sets of 10 yeah four sets of 10 four sets of 10 and then another exercise for four sets of 10 yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah like it was a shot drop set you're done yeah we trained hard you know moved a lot of weights well we should wrap this one if we're gonna do two segments really that flew by yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah we're gonna start that we're like mumbling about bulls shit I got it we I have to do this all every week I know what the okay is what about the hand job is that staying in there it's yeah it'll be like yeah yeah yeah yeah no you only need both hands if you're jerking off the whole jam dusty yeah that was a second that was a second that got it my bad no no no there's stack there's no two dicks there's only one day oh shit okay okay see you later guys remember like share subscribe comment ring the bell and use codes big wrong 20 yes dusty 20 on iamoon.com yeah so the codes work both in the states and in Canada so Canadians can even use your code not that they would not know why they would cool there's a lot of Americans who already don't like you and they will happily use my code that's a very valid point actually but you still win because let's say I take half of the Americans yes or and and and all of the Canadians you probably have all the Americans with guns I definitely do like all of your Americans have guns would be a lot of my Americans might not have guns so all of so wrong gets the Democrat Americans well because they would go Canadian right they would be more like sure Canadian government wise they don't know you know there would yeah there you go default all right okay cheers guys remember it's just bodybuilding

She got the type of wife to like hey, that's the community got to see her tits True, that's what what do you think? Like what I can only really tell if you guys are both next to each other anyways You that comparison I see yeah, yeah, I actually need to know what I'm dealing with she's how quick he was with that to run He was just like boom you just You know almost Hey everybody welcome to it's just body building I'm your host Ron part low co-host dusty handsha I guess he's on this side in the video. What are we doing and of course the producer Scott McNally Happy to be here guys. This is uh, you know, it's just another Monday But um, today feel I'm excited about the episode It's Wednesday for them. It's Monday for them. Yes. Yeah, so a little time travel remember like share subscribe comment and And Yes, they're about Yeah, I know that was it's you know what I know we try to make the episode good, but that's still my favorite part Everyone favorite most people turn off right now if you look at the This is watching watch is usually 37 seconds What's happening around 37 seconds yeah just sudden drop off It's great to have everybody Remember I am mutant dot com mutant sponsor in the show born hardcore go to iam mutant dot com get your eyes to surge get your all in and every single one of you Meets to get on the gear so go to iam mutant dot com dusty 20 big Ron 20 Do what you got to do just don't tell us so no feelings are hurt And get your muter on the beat Yeah, I don't expect you to actually use my code I just want you to be I just want you to just you know Help to show out try so we appreciate the support and of course The Patreon Think big body building patreon keep a producer home. Thank you guys I'm in and I get in a Afficient at you know the all the the nonsense that no one wants to hear anyways you're really good at it You're really good. Yeah, I even forget some of that stuff sometimes you have a program you follow your program and you I think you're doing a good job Think you do a good job. Yeah, you know we kind of have to do those that that that part it It's really important and you know, you know, it's like I watch those long podcast, you know, and then they'll like cut to like Joe Roganel and Surt is own on it commercial. Yes, right. Yeah, but you know what I mean and then other guys just like turn the camera and just go I'm looking for a new mattress Yeah, like you know you're watching some random. I don't know just watch this some youtuber and like this guy sell mattresses Oh, yeah, yes, you know a lot of people at home watching and bed So okay, what's the lead topic? So I thought this would be fun. You guys thought this would be fun too and in people they generally tune in to have a good time watching this show I mean they might learn something in the process, but for the most part I think they're here for the entertainment So the question is is I train test coverage But they're in that too. They're in here for the contest coverage Question for the next episode. I train five times a week and I'm fairly strong But my back in legs kill me after five minutes of rocking my daughter to sleep my wife jokingly of crabs on him for this What life activity are you surprisingly bad at and only got worse at as your bodybuilding career progressed? I suggested like holding the phone up till your ear that is a skill that you'd like speaker phone was made for bodybuilders I'll tell you that right now or he's free, you know, yeah, you know what? I'll never forget I Started driving a Jeep Cherokee like the old old school Cherokee. I can't remember what year that would have been like For something and I drove it for years and years and then in I think it was like 2009 about a craester 300 Oh, remember those and I bought like a nice one like I yeah I had one with like it was nice like it had all the luxury stuff in it It was kind of a nicest car I'd ever bought it was only like a year and a half old so it was really really nice dark blues Sweet and and everyone was telling me man you look great in that car. It really suits you because at the time Those were like really cool, you know yeah and And I remember thinking like I really love this car, but I hate getting in and out of it Because because I I had a Cherokee for so many years, right and then you know I just kept getting bigger and like he was like 2013 I rode off my someone hit me and rode off my car And I took my insurance check and I went and got another I got a grand Cherokee. I was like screw the cars man I just getting in and out of cars when I was big I just got worse and worse and worse the bigger I got the sore I got the sore my knees got like I just got worse I hated getting into cars and sports cars and we didn't even ride in them so we got a Ferrari to be like when I go for spin up like now I'm good like like just That's a no for sure So this is simple and I think everyone can get this but it actually does get worse Particularly when you're sore The first thing I do every morning is the treadmill You know head brush petite you got a treadmill. It's also the only time of day where I wear shoes I have to tie Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, there are long I mean I swi I found my greatest location is the stairs and I put it on the second stair. Yes, and I kind of like push my knee out to the side Inside and tie and then I got to try to position in the middle still because it bothers me if my shoe lace is still left Or the right the knots like hanging inside yes, it's not and you're just looking you're like this is my life If I see it with his shoe lace is tied right to the side. I'm like always disabled And there's me That's my rack and I It's kind of like when a girl is fake boobs. She can see it other girls they have fake boobs Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it can really even no matter what they're wearing yeah, they know I could see it too though, but anyways Sorry I'm like a doctor it's fine like hey, let's help this guy with his bad lace at least you're on my tits She got to type a wife you got to type a wife to like hey, that's the community got to see her tits True What are you I can only really tell if you guys are both next to each other anyways Yeah Yeah, they comparison I see yeah, yeah, I just need to know what I'm dealing with she's got a quickie was with that too Ron he was just like boom. You just on it. Yeah, almost Okay, so there's that and then there's another thing and I don't know how many people will know this that have this greatness But I find in the middle the night that every now and then you have an inch that cannot be scratched you can't reach it So I may or may not Definitely do have a retractable back scratcher by my bed at all times I travels with me it goes down to like you know Little pencil so yeah, pull it out because it's not good you get the scratch and you're like I'm like on the bed and I'm doing one of these and makeies get pissed So yeah, think about the things you can't reach as the bigger you get like you ever see somebody They can like put their hand over the head like this and the other hand behind the back and grab them together Yeah, yeah, yeah that they that weird You know people that have never been over 250 thing yeah, yeah, yeah, I put the belt in the pants before I put the pants I tried to slide that shit through one no air and you can you get to that point you put the belt in first I'll ever cross my mind never cross my mind think about how does that was for you at your biggest when you were trying to get back that back Luke Then you miss one I got one tip I've got one tip for everybody here. So But lots of belts and just leave a pair of belts and every pair of pants is well here's the thing is that you you're always kind of wandering You know you're putting muscle on you look in the mirror and you're like you're like I'm starting to get bigger like am I really jacked yet? I'm gonna tell you what if you can cross your legs You're not jacked yet the gentleman said Cross your legs Your legs aren't big enough yet if you can even put your heel up on the leg with like though other one at a 90 that's also difficult All I can throw like that like like real starts to stretch yeah, it's a good thing Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I basically doing physio if I sit with my legs crossed like in that fashion Yeah, yeah, but the gentleman sit like the oh you mean like this out what that is is like the All the folded yeah, yeah, you know like your professors You know you see a professor sitting like that you probably don't even squat You didn't do a lot of squats No, I've got I've got a friend that'll sit like that. I got a good buddy that'll sit like that once in a while And it's funny because he just pulls it off You just think yeah, he said to distinguish dude in there little bit of them Well, you know complete deviant a little bit of distinguished gentleman in there But he can also wear a bow tie at an event and you know That guy rocks it he's one of those dudes and every did pull it off never warm, but you know what I mean right? Yeah, yeah That can't do it as my life when I was smaller. I could wear a bow tie but there was just cuff links with it I don't want any judgment and most of those guys were very nice anyways Oh Just for pay. This is awkward. Just for pay. Yeah, oh no biggie. Ah It was a 90s dusty. No one's judging you the 90s. Who was it? There was there was rumors I can't remember if it was dumpter or Marcus rule something like oh when he went to the bathroom He couldn't even wipe himself his wife had to hose him down in the shower. Oh, no, that was co-vacce That was great great co-vacce. That was right. Yeah, that was the rumor people said that stuff Imagine being so big that people were make a rumors up about you like that Imagine if the rumor was true Anyways That's how you know you're a huge have you guys ever delved into Like Andre the giant's real life if you ever listened to like the Jake the snake interview where the Hulk Hogan interviews where he talks about Andre or if you ever read any of Andre's Just what you told us on the giant Yeah, yeah Andre people don't realize how big he was he was over seven feet tall And he was 550 pounds when he died and so Like people just don't realize how big Andre was and you listen to the guys that Tired with them like you know the old school guys like Jake the snake and Hold in and the guys that drove around in the vans and the early days with them and all that shit and He would she would shit in the bathtub of the hotel You're kidding because he couldn't use a toilet that he couldn't use the toilet There's no way he could use it you would break it so he would shit in the bathtub and then he would just run the water and use it And he would they use a bucket like wash it all they just insane You know stuff like that So he didn't have an easy life man and like I I thought about Andre like occasionally when I was really big because I'd be like man he's like Another 200 pounds yeah like so on Johnny yeah like look at that on Johnny Carson he put a hard boy old egg through his ring Really yeah, he passed the heart he gave yeah He did that on Johnny Carson when he was on I think that's a that's from Johnny Carson there But I'm he put a hard boy old egg through his ring so if you just think how big his finger was right But he would sit in the back of the van and drink like 36 beers Like they would wrestle and then they would get in the van and they would drive like two hours to the next town and check into their hotel You know what I mean and they get ready to wrestle the next day so that night time drive to the next town every time or whatever He would drink 32 beers in a couple hours no problem They'd get out at the next they'd get out at the next town and there'd be 32 empty beer bottles in the back of the van like you drink a whole flood of beer And it was just no big deal the way it was just so huge so yeah pretty crazy But yeah brushing your teeth getting a bicep pump having to switch sides having to brush left handed for the first time Here's Arnold look at that so Arnold was tall Arnold six one yeah, yeah, yeah, oh wait Here's a better one check this out. There's a little little better angle there Give you an idea how big Arnold was next to him. I don't know who that other guy is will change Plus you get to remember like the world will still is as nice to sizes now Like there are a lot more big men now than there were then yeah, yeah, you know like look at sports look at basketball Look at hockey like to be six four and hockey is normal now Like they were like who guys when I was playing they were that big Was it not a real like the big guy in the league at one point he's like two to 20 or something It's completely normal now so I think that that's another thing. I think about that all the time like Ron, you know when we get on flights And we always sit in like the premium economy at least If like we can't get bumped to first and I always think to myself okay the width is Little tight for me, but I'm short. I mean I'm literally five ten and think and where does like Jamie what does he do where does he let's go yeah because it's tight for my knees in premium economy And I'm five ten I'm like Where does six six go so when we were I've got video of Jamie and I riding in the back seat of Like a compact SUV I think it was a caring member it might have been George was driving and we were leaving the mutant mansion going to the gym And I have video at him where you know the the the ceiling of the car is you know Couple a few inches above my head and then it like goes up there's like a little thing it goes up in the back for like the cargo area And Jamie had to sit there like with his head in the Empire yeah in that higher part and then the the lower part like came up to his forehead that whole time I look like a child sitting next to him. I was looking at how much space I took up compared to him. He just Yeah big dude. I always on a flight to Australia one time going to Australia with mutant and so I was For sure enough to be in premium economy because any overseas flights they put us some air Canada premium which is that those are such nice seats Yeah, pretty air Canada premium like I'm happy is shit there, right? And this entire basketball team gets on and they're like college level or maybe like semi pro I don't know but they were all like Australian kids who had been in the state so they must have been at like some basketball camp or something because there was like 25 of them like it was it was like I saw them in the airport And I was like holy those are those guys are all like like six 10 you know like that really tough And they all cut on my plane. I was like oh damn they're all on my flight They were all sitting all sitting in coach the whole team was sitting in coach and they were all just like Spread out through the crowd like some of them are in middle seats and some of them and and I just remember every time I got up I'd look back there and I was like oh man those guys look like they're just Die and back there like your knees are just pressed against the seats. Yeah, it was really and I'm ever taken like the And bigs weight easier than being six 10 on a plane oh yeah, yeah, you know being big is rough for everybody else But being six 10 that's just brutal on you like their knees are touching the seat the whole flight man Yeah, so you're hanging into the eye or whatever being wide it's not a huge deal So anyways, we've do railed as always Yes, what's up I do have I've got another one because we kind of badly know we're like we didn't know what we wanted to do for a lead topic We like that one and we like this one what training split did you guys get the most Overall growth from and I want to hear the story like like how old were you at that time? You know what was bodybuilding like for you at that time? Okay I mean mine I think everyone knows the plan which was DC training It was 2007 that I started it But the reason that I was obsessed with the plan was I had seen Justin Harris's pictures online before and I just remembered seeing what he looked like and I thought to myself He's a big white guy Meaning it's just he's big but it's not the prettiest thing and I thought you know what that might be an achievable thing to look at you know because at the time you're looking at these guys that are all drastically different than me and it was just kind of hard to digest as I actually glance to my pictures Well, I'm doing this to see if I had this picture of him but it was hard for me to even think Did I could look like them so I found out that he worked with Dante and I hunted Dante down and asked him to work with me and I reached out. It was funny But I had just had a bad experience with a coach who didn't go I hired and I told him I was gonna go to an event and I walked up to him and said hey, I'm dusty how you doing I didn't know who I was and that threw me off because I understood like he's training a lot of people And he might not like not know me if I just walked up in an event Yeah, but I love not as coming I told him my name and then he looked me because I hate what's I've Dude and shook my hand. I was like I mean walked off. Oh, I Weird so anyways I said you know I don't know if you know who I am blah blah blah So Dante responds back to me says, no, I know who you are You've done really great and you're huge. They don't need me See ya and I remember at first I read it and I was like, oh, that's cool. I keep that you know I don't need him and I was like Trying to trick me because I'm dumb So I Reach back out and I hounded him as the long story short and got him to training and The thing that made it different Then this is the whole thing I want to remind people of his two things number one It was a first time that because of the fact that I literally had to nag him into working with me My promise to him was if I changed anything about his program He could dump me immediately and never talked to me again And I paid him 800 bucks and I was poor so that was a ton of money sure for me I should have to save it up once he told me to mount so I could hire him And because of that I executed it flawlessly No mistakes. I mean no deviation. I was obsessive about making sure I understood what he wanted me to do How he wanted me to do it? I'd send him videos make sure I was executing not just the movement correctly But the intensity and all those things and that blood into the Diet and on and on and on and the reason I explained that whole thing is my true answer is Progressive overload to me is the best way to put on muscleness does not have to be DC training There's not like it worked the best for me But the biggest secret was progression and the fact that I was a machine about it day in and day out And I think that's where most people slip With growth is they don't see a bunch of growth in three weeks and they change a program And they don't see enough and they change this and they change that and they're never Extruing anything long enough To figure out what would work when in reality chance art everything that they were doing would have worked Yeah, if they were done with the highest level of intensity Hopefully progressively and been consistent so I I Made the most gains I tell people this now because things have like and but I made the most gains When I was 17 right at the end of high school so my last year high school I After football was over so like I started training like Dorian That was when I started Dorian style because I was doing like just regular workouts before that like four sets of you know four sets of bench You know what I mean just like thinking and just terms of regular workouts taking a you know stuff out of flex magazine and stuff But you know I started training like Dorian and I'd flirted with it a bit you know throw at high school Started taping my sets down a little bit but I remember I actually started training four days a week Because I thought that's what he did you know about what we were reading so I started just training Monday Tuesday Thursday Friday or Saturday and Friday was my leg day So I would sometimes do it Friday. I would sometimes do it Saturday and then I'd have Sunday off and um I started training like that would have been like 1992 Like you know and the 92 and I did that exact split the Dorian split and then when blood and got to came out in 97 I was like oh I'm already on this split. He's still on this split Yeah, no, I mean yeah, and I just stayed on it The guys in Australia. I trained with we're on it so we just stayed with it literally didn't change a thing We all trained exactly the same and I stayed on the Dorian split until I think it was like 2004 is when I finally like was like I think I'm gonna have an arm date Because I thought my arms had to come up, you know, this weren't coming up at that point And I was kind of being stubborn about it and I made some changes, but So essentially 10 years didn't change a single thing Barely changed exercises Like leg press Squats like it was basic gym stuff all those gyms were pretty basic you're leg pressing hacking extensions and squats and that's it None of us no one was lunging in the 90s not until Ronnie came along no one was lunging They weren't a thing and like girls were lunging and you know fitness people were lunging But bodybuilders were like they can't load that exercise enough screw that everyone was into like What can you load effectively, you know, right so you know You know what I mean so anyways the the point being is I did that for 10 years and I went from I mean, you know It's probably about 210 when I started training like that 205 and you know by 2004 I was like three you know 320 so Yeah, it's a lot of weight man. Yeah, but that's but I literally got all the way up to 320 on that split I love that's the thing that I connect with the most that I hope people get is Basically the same split a lot of the same movements, you know because you get that a ton of clients like Can change your workout and I'm like are you by singing? Yes, why? Like and I sometimes think and I like to remind newer clients when I'm going I'm not being lazy And sometimes we will switch a movement to movements some of the you know you've you've run out of but like Oftentimes people will say well don't I need to shock my body and my get the shock is Getting strong. Yes, that's You know those are getting crazy You know my body was it's in shock when my delus were 405 for five and then when they were you know 750 for five my body was like oh, that's shocking That's a lot more you know, so you kind of want to get to those places Scott I just sent you a pictures That was what I looked like when I saw Justin Harris that's him on the right Okay, and I decided I needed to hire Dante So I was kind of a guy peek at that point and then so that was a Six in that picture so I didn't actually like that was just my best look at that point and I hired you And then later seven and then that picture was 2011 doing what he told me to do So that was that's crazy from 07 to 11 Yeah, so that's what five years Yeah, so the left picture actually because that was that was a late o six, but yeah, it's like I mean just a five-year time period and only Like I said basically three and a half of that was with Dante Yeah, and it was you know just just a night and I probably have friends With with you know, maybe changing gyms the odd time and a bit of variety you probably used about six Back exercises the entire time Right right right that's actually that's the funny thing is that's true. I could literally tell you Yeah, what no we tried because you do them name them so I would what for width was How many how many did you actually do on a regular basis? That's okay, this was this would all of them so one workout would be ractions with a Smith barbarrow That's the full back workout those two movements Another one would be pull ups with a deadlift and Then the last one would be like I used to live the hammer pull down With a rack deadlift there's my hole. That's everything I did Those three things you know those three workouts would rotate through and then you'd go back to the first one again And be your numbers and that is what I did essentially my entire career You just now funny people would pick on me online. They're like you keep posting the same stuff like this is all I do Nothing else to folks Yeah, yeah, that's awesome those pictures are crazy. I I also too have to Pitch in about this that era where Justin and Kuklo were training together very young Steve Kuklo were training together on YouTube those What what yours would there was a bin? I saw him who's even YouTube where they those were on the message board I saw a couple of clothes 2006 I believe it was win his first show and he just smoked yeah like dudes at him and you know bodybuilding Completely for a decade, you know, yeah, so it was even pre YouTube because those videos were on the message board That's where they were posting and Justin was putting them up and it was like a young Kuklo with him and they were like doing stuff that Was crazy like Justin was squatting six plates for like sets of 10 Yeah, and then he would do a widow maker. He'd put 405 on and he'd do 20 reps of it And afterwards Yeah, I grinded it and then you know they were hacksquadding seven plates and it was like That was not calm and you know and I remember it I was like super motivated I'm gonna hacksquad 7 plates now because like but I remember they were just so strong back then It was mind bogging and I knew they did this DC training, you know, yeah, so yeah, that was exact that picture though That I mean that was literally when I decided because I was like It was literally like what like you know when people talk about the the Their dream of you know a wrestler whatever I saw a guy who I I didn't know but I knew he was on the boards and I'm like I want to look like that like it's just it was so freaky to see Me just you know out in this patio hitting a lot spread and I'm looking at mine I'm like this thing like we do the same thing But I you know the last picture put up that was like probably one of the peaks of my career because I saw that picture and I'm like I caught him I did it like this is What that was you know what I mean and and that was super rewarding because here and it was the best part was I did it by doing what he did Hmm, yeah, he's copied on there was work with him and I feel like that's the confusing thing that people just don't want to accept is the fact that You don't have to reinvent the wheel But you also can't avoid the hard work consistently I mean I watched the train and I was like okay, that's what their training looks like that's what mine muscle like every single time And I think it also reinforces what I mentioned about like How I've always thought about exercises like all those exercises that you listed are very like You know you can get really strong on them And you can you can Really tax the body with those exercises you know you're locked in You know that sort of thing and how I said like you know that like I'd never really been a lunge I just Just didn't really feel like you could really go to failure on them because like my idea of Why I'm in the gym was to do sets that are incredibly taxing Right, and I just think well what's more taxing like getting in getting under a smith and doing another set of deep squats to complete failure You know with a spotter or you know wrestling around a bar getting up behind my neck lunging outside in the parking lot Can't really go to failure. You're can't really get a spot Like you know what I mean like I just so so exercise selection was always just like what kind of hit the hardest with like what What are the highest impact tools I have and just repeat those for 10 years? Yeah, that's why I love Matt Jansen's like slogan like do the hard stuff Yeah, that's where things get missed and you know I talk about it regularly at home When we're talking about what we're picking to do in the gym because to me it's simple like There's a reason everyone and I I'm picking a movement. I like there's a reason people love to go to the hamble Hammero and row on it Because no matter how you cut it that's easier than putting a bar on the ground pretty much a weight on and doing barba rows Oh, yeah, it's a pain in the ass and every way you got to load up you got to lift the end the whole thing is a pain in the ass It's harder so that's literally my advice to young guys. I'm gonna do the most basic things and perfect them Then eventually when you want to rule around with that row, it's fine, but I'm telling you When when the thing happened that we were all the gym for a couple of years ago And I had to go to a gym that didn't have any that equipment and I was forced back to a barbell on the ground I got really strong again my back got really big again and I was like why did I get away from this This is the stuff that works You know, so that's always my push them like if we have a bar gravity and weight We're ready for back day. We're good to go right right Yeah, yeah, keep in it simple, you know What about you Scott? I want to hear because I like you I know some of your stories far as variations Yeah, what what was it and what made it different that made you grow the best? Well, I would say that for a lot of my body building I feel like The training was creative and it was fun and it was really hard and it was higher volume and I feel like it honestly was the food and the drugs that were the driver And Later when I did start getting into more progressive overload and I just decided like I'm gonna try to learn to get as strong as I can Then I started growing with really low drugs and not doing anything with my diet like eating like I was kind of like you In that semi retired. I'm still eating bodybuilding food, but I'm not really Being super strict with it. I make sure I get on my protein in and and you know what I'm gonna get a little extra carbs Because I'm trained in hard today that kind of thing and I'm like look I'm getting big you know right right And it really did open my eyes. I will say One body part that I really struggled with for a while was hamstrings I learned how to grow my quads and and you see this a lot you know you see guys that like that early stage of You're building a physique your shoulder start growing faster than your chest Quad start growing faster than the ham that kind of thing and and I still didn't have a good back yet But I started doing Hamstring curls the way John Meadows would do them in in Shelby and we're you know doing a lot of mountain dog stuff and I What I started doing is I started really controlling the negative Driving it down is hard as I freaking could trying to like slam that thing into the bottom if I could But not letting it bounce back up holding it there, okay? Yeah contract those hamstrings Like I'm trying to freaking make them spasm for like one full second and then just slowly let it up And I did that exact same hamstring curl every time I trained legs leading forward to kind of like get a little bit of a stretch in it And in one day I realized that I had worked my way pretty far up the stack you say machine every week, you know And I realized wow I'm able to control this with a lot more weight now and and I kind of like felt the back of my leg Around that same time and I'm saying man, I got a I've got a lot more hand than then I took a picture and I could see it like I didn't see it You know what I mean right and then it but like it transformed my hamstrings from Being like mediocre and missing really to being like a legit muscle group and they've honestly they've never gone away since then like I've still held on to them That's awesome. That's funny. I remember Back when I was I think it was just like night two years after high school I remember my hacksquat. I got up to five plates on the hacksquat and this was like an old school hacksquat that we had like wheels on it You know it wasn't on the nails So like and I was doing five plates on that hack and I remember like I would have only been like 19 years old but everyone in the gym was like holy you're strong on those and I was probably bouncing a bit out of the bottom You know like there are Little aggressive I always be in aggressive on that thing and I remember I took my monthly measurements and You know I was running like one of my first cycles. I was probably just taking a bit of test or something you know what I mean and I took my monthly measurements and my legs were up like half an inch from the month before And I was like oh And then like because I'd I'd seen my legs grow over time. I had like years of measurements But they were really doing they were really growing and then like the next month I measured and they were up again like noticeable like a couple eights and I was like man this is really going well especially my legs And I remember thinking you know I'm really focusing on my hacksquat Yeah, it's been like my main focus for legs like everything else was secondary like was all about what I was gonna hacksquat Yep, and and I was just Really putting everything into that particular exercise and then that's I remember that just triggered in me like wow I think hacks are really good for me like But you know some exercise like dusty picks weights up in his back looks like that, you know, and I just remember thinking like oh I haven't never seen like even my previous cycle or whatever I didn't see my legs grow that rate. Yeah, and I remember just like little things like that They kind of make you think like oh this XC exercise for me, you know, so I was stuck with hacks as like a real kind of rule You know before the pendulum squat days Yeah, yeah back spin Jim Jim's were simple. Okay Let's see what else we got here how about this one Enjoy the program you guys are great 48 years old started lifting again at 40 After not doing anything for 20 years I've been making great progress and Being completely natural not even TRT he's getting 315 for reps on an inclined bench 405 for reps on squat This is at 48 405 for reps on dead's Question I took two weeks off lifting and I also had a massage during that two weeks now on back and I lost as much as 70 pounds on my lifts is that typical? No I would say no that's not typical And the massage didn't hurt you if anything it would have helped But it also might come back really quick too Yeah, you know I I mean I know from personal experience from running like actual TRT now That you know if I missed let's say I take a week off like you know we used to you know how I would take a week off as like a d-load When you come back to the gym and like nothing's changed right now if I take a week off for like a d-load I come back to the gym and some of the lifts are down like It's not the same so yeah, I don't know just it'll come back up though just stick with it This is what you think that I would say is um and I do this all my clients on our plan d-loads is We don't go back trying to hit those old numbers right away So if something was on like a 12 week blast and then they go we do our d-load for two weeks I go back five weeks and I want to look at those numbers start there Right and and and you might be gas to help and could have done the newest numbers again But I find I shouldn't say I find let me rewind I was taught By Dante and then he was correct and my you know experiences If you go right back to your numbers even if you can beat them you shorten the next blast Because you're going to hit a wall faster for what you can do Right and I know that doesn't make a lot of sense because the thing that will aren't you just going in there and doing the max You can anyways, but you're going base off of other numbers so if I go and look into weight from five weeks go and I got 12 I might get 13 14 today Which is a higher you know total on a straight set that I would have gotten and then next week I'm making your asses in next time I have that movement. I'm making the decision off of that 14 reps Yeah, yeah, it's going to go longer so I wouldn't worry at all I would say the biggest problem that he had there is that he tried to go back to those numbers It wouldn't have been where I started anyways Right, right. Yeah, don't sweat it just get a few workouts under your belt Yeah, you know and if that's just coming back from you know Come back from the flu when you're 15 pounds down you just go psychobled the true all your muscle tissue a couple times and you'll fill right out Yeah, you're great Okay, here's an interesting one He says as a strict eastern Orthodox Christian I have to fast every Sunday 12 a.m. to 12 p.m When we per take in communion in during lent in advent We also fast 12 hours a day for 40 days each Have you had any clients that had to work around this? That is it something that I should approach my bishop to get a Dispens like dispensation I am not a competitive bodybuilder just a guy trying to get leaner and in better health And keeping up with my five grandkids all under seven he says he's 63 going on 64 and he's all nanny and His testosterone level show that they are still in the normal range For his age I'm going to add that part there's the important line What I mean first off I know the answer for all three of us and yes I've worked with people that this time sure you both have as well I don't find a 12 hour faster really hard to work around It just means we're eating more. I mean all your time is I'm assuming that you sleep at night like most people So it means if you're waking up at six in the morning there's six hours before you can eat again That's not really a huge deal to me and I can I could roll it roll through your lent time as well And it wouldn't be an issue um as far as the the question about asking your bishop That's that's up to you and and what these things mean to you but as a coach I could work around it without a being a problem at all Yeah, I agree same thing I worked with the guy that was doing Ramadan Yeah, I'm going to go harder Like overlap as part of his prep you know what I mean up. Yeah, we were just strategic about nighttime eating and having a shake in the middle of the night and you know just Keep into it, you know best you could you got really good shape I think that's good for you to think about on the on the religious side which I am not but because it's important to you Um If you're executing these things and you're able to Stay within what you Want to do religiously while doing this I think that both should feel like bigger victories You know because I feel like that's where things get slippery for a lot of people is You've got your views of of religion and then you got your views of the world and then you decide to which one You're going to let tug you and what direction it's cool when you can stay strong on both So there's no reason you shouldn't in this case Yeah 12 hours We need to see whatever you want 12 hours easy, you know 12 hours. It's easy. Yeah, and remember what are the what's 95% of it Eating the food totals and doing the workouts. Yeah, okay We need them. Do you guys should we tell them to maybe get his lips checked again and look at maybe I don't know I don't know because he's he's in the normal range for 65 year old I don't like it. I don't like to turn range because Truthfully and this isn't even a push on anything but like a Doctor could tell you that when you feel like shit Yeah, you're in range all the other girls that are you're either during your age or in the same range as you You know Yeah Yeah, but even in order to find a end of normal if you don't feel as good That's not okay like you can adjust that and the thing I remind people is Had he went to bed at 20 years old and woke up the next day with his hormones where they are now He would go to the hospital because he would like something is wrong When they say when they say average you have to remember that the average American is I can't remember the number I thought was 35 pounds overweight and has a thousand dollars in the bank So you don't ever want to be average So when they say oh you're right in the average right in that average zone it's like no, no I know nothing about this is gonna stay there You know what's fun. I have to show us we're gonna be told but I Had to go to the a counselors office with my oldest daughter at one point and she's like yeah She pays a three point out which is right where you want it to be it's right in the average and I'm like We're promoting Yeah, right no no no no no You know it's like well, oh we did Not shouldn't for average, but it was the way it was presented to me like I don't give a shit What a great darker just killing every other way But it's just funny to me when I was presented that way like it's excellent It's at me like it can't be both it can either be excellent or it can be average Right Yeah, very odd to me, but at any rate That's why we don't care about school Moving This is what we don't care about school. We're teaching money around here anyways. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh fight man I honestly think sometimes like I'm a watching a lot of like financial YouTube videos you know and um And the what I feel I'm talked about like how on you know how the schools don't do anything to educate people on finance whatsoever nothing Right like nothing and It always seems like it's on purpose because They did like you know you do the math on the people that are taught finance at a young age like you know Take $100 a month and invest it into the S&P 500 or something or a mutual funds or and then you know save for this and you know But you know budget for this and just awareness and like how credit card debt works and just all these things that they don't tell Anybody and if and you do the math on like kids that are taught it when they come out of high school And where people wind up on average 30 years later They're just like astronomical the difference. Yes, you know, they're out paid out paces school by far because of you know School doesn't guarantee money, right? So yeah, pretty crazy but things are definitely if you can educate yourself financially that's like the number one Most important tool So You know plus you have That's what you can do before you have money. That's the confusing thing like that I did wrong Is I didn't know anything about money when I started making it which just meant I wasted more Yeah, that's what people don't get it. It's like no, no, no, you want to learn this when you have none You know, oh you can only put $40 a way a month a great put it away Yeah, like that that's okay You don't want to be the point where you could put away 4,000 but you don't because you're more on Like yeah, that's not good So yeah, it was interesting, but you know I will say she had one class last semester that was all about it. It was amazing She's bringing stuff home on like this guy's teaching you this This is the only good teacher you have I mean it was for not every every day. It was a conversation I'm like you're learning something worth learning This is I'll never forget my my favorite teacher was my economics teacher and He back in the day like this was in 90s, but like you went about to do this now, but he was drug dealing Like he was always talking in like drug dealing terms. He's like okay If you have a kill with cocaine and the market gets tastes this is then he's like talking about supply and demand And this and he would always use like hilarious examples. Yeah, you know You can you can you can you can where the fuck okay We're gonna cut that We're gonna get the gangster teacher. Yeah, he was awesome He's like Ron you understand kilos anyways Okay, so there's a high demand for prostitutes There's only this many prostitutes No classes like look at at each other Ron and back here at the front going aha Yeah, so so Two it's from They have past ports or they know passport type prostitutes like we need to know Mike's friends. They're from Calgary, but anyways Oh Sorry, all the Canadians were good that joke. Um yeah And for some reason they're always on a boat and Kelona This is all over the country All the Canadians are getting all of this right. I'm sorry. There we go. There we go Scott doesn't know about boats and Kelona. No nothing. Okay, just good. It's a Google for Later buddy. Okay, okay Okay, I know I saw a Jim Googling that right now, but anyways All right now like probably offended like half the people I know that like to go to Kelona for summer vacation every girl I met in Calgary is also mad at me right now Yeah All right, you I was talking with the other one. I wasn't necessarily laughing at the at at at Calgary specifically, but I just was laughing that you picked a city That made a fun guy. I had experience Because then that maybe fake he does he's got some skin in the game We're really jeez You know that says more about you than it does about Calgary I'll have to ask my wife after after my wife was some life to ask her what this means God's like I'm an honorary Canadian, but I'm not this Canadian Yeah You haven't gotten in any trouble in Canada yet buddy Yeah All right, so we had another one says question when you first start lifting You feel and perceive yourself to be way better than you actually are and then As you've gotten better you actually make and you make progress You never feel like you're good enough and only see it Like when you look back at old pictures. Yeah, so he says is that true or is it just me? That's true Hi, I Don't like I don't mean to sound like it's like you know I don't be I don't want to be a downer thing, but I Literally didn't really ever Like my physique Like you know what I mean? I look back now at some of my pictures and I'm like Man, I really was you know like I can't believe I look like that at any point in time You know what I mean? Yeah, and at the time I was just so critical of everything and I see guys now who have Your good physique's like coming up national level and stuff and they're really critical of themselves And I understand it but I also want to make sure they they take a minute and just enjoy where they Come and how far they've come you know like I try to help people I know you're critical and every show you feel like you could have been a little better here a little bit of there But like try to also celebrate what you're doing and how you're how you like what you've achieved and how What you've built and stuff and that was a bit of that was lost on me because I was so Competitive with myself you know I saw it like it's a good thing though like I Yes, and I try to do the same thing But I also find that all of my best clients are that way Because they're yeah, I've been for more and like you said you just want to remind them hey just for this minute Just just right now Soak this up for 24 hours and then tomorrow We will talk about your Terrible yeah, yeah, even just even just even just a bit of that even just a bit of that you know what I mean I guess I'm I'm saying like you want to recognize when there's misery being caused Right no reason you don't want that you know what I mean and I got to places like that I'd buy it periods where I was just fucking like you know what I mean Got enough body of the disease of bodybuilding because Those things we all have like so you'll love this round but two days ago I wake up in the morning and this is like the routine of us how just sleep She goes It happened like what she goes I had the dream Didn't have my tan on before the show I got that dream yeah, I go had you shave she goes hadn't shaved and I was talking to my grandmother and I was late for pre-jaging And I'm like there it is we all have it's the dream yep You got you ever have the drawing You forget to drop your water or something you forget I've had that dream a Santa backstage you look down my arms aren't shaved Yeah, I forgot to I forgot to take I was exposed to take like half a tablet dies. I did my dream I forgot to take it and I looked down and realized I hadn't shaved my arms didn't know my tan on hadn't My diorotic I had one trained to shave backstage in the mirror what like all my class was pumping up I was like I get this finished, you know I think it's so great because everyone can relate to that the bodybuilds Yeah, when I used to play hockey I would occasionally have a dream that I got in a fight and I was like throw in like cotton balls at the guy Like Yeah, you're strolling everything having it's like The guy's like look at you like what are you doing? It's like super slow motion. I've had this get handled It's so it's like every I assume that means every sport has a thing because I would tell the guys like oh, yeah Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, also I've mentioned this before but way before I competed I had to I would have a training dream all the time It wasn't prepper-related, but it was just workout related. I'd be I'd be in the gym And I'd be about to do my big set of something in kind Smith or squads or late press or something And then right when I'm about to do my set. I'd realize I forgot the time I shoot oh And I have to tie my shoe and then I get under the bar again and the someone took a plate off one side The hell that guy there didn't realize I was using this and he took a plate off it so I got to put plate back on and then Getting all psyched up and really asking my spotter hasn't walked over. I'm looking at my spotters talking to someone on my jeez And this frustration and I remember one time I had that dream and I was on a cruise ship So I was like on a cruise ship in the cruise ship gym trying to have a workout and I was just getting so frustrated and I'd wake up in like an angry cold sweat Squats It's amazing. Yeah, and that would happen all the time and the setting would change the gym would change But it would always be the same idea That's amazing that is freaking amazing I haven't had that so but yes my point was just that we all have those things like the never being happy to look and Everybody builder that's worth the salt is definitely forgotten the shave and this dream Yeah, just a shy or posted this picture these this side by side the other day He said this was like is off season 16 weeks out and then at 255 and then to 25 at two weeks out And he said that he was he's like I look at these pictures and I wasn't happy with either of these He's like and I look at I look back at him now and I'm only Remotely happy and somebody commented and they didn't get it. They're like They're like you know, well, when are you gonna begin to prioritize your quality of life and it and true happiness And he is like you don't get it man like this is what we do like this is the happiness Yeah, if you were if you were happy you'd be done really you don't I mean why we need to write all right You know my that a great thing about that picture because I just had this conversation in the client yesterday He said I'm looking at my pictures and the calories Because obviously we're diving down. Yeah, is it possible that I'm getting bigger and I said no But you definitely look bigger. Yeah, and you look at those two pictures like it's very obvious which version of Justin looks bigger The one that's 25 pounds lighter Yeah You know it's like no, no, he I mean they look more if he's so much bigger You know his arms didn't change in in cheater like he didn't lose anything in his arms No, I was just came down to time. Yeah, yeah, blue and teal I think if I would wear blue which I never did I would have looked just like that is close Yeah, it was a chance no I did the web look Boys and my early days Yeah, I still suck but anyways, yes, I think it's finally somebody didn't get that though He's like no, I'm that's a good thing I did think if you ever look at your pictures and say like I'm awesome like you are screwed Yeah, you're done Look at how it's like running holding yeah, yeah, because I guarantee you when Ronnie walked off stage after Innihilating everyone in you know three Him and Chad said what do we got to do to beat this? Yeah, he wasn't beating anyone else anymore Dory and never was competing against anyone else which by the way Ron, I'm gonna need I need homework for you She'd never followed Dorians or she doesn't know like all the quotes and all the things that he had said and done over the years I'm like oh we got we got podcast homework kid you got things Okay Because I you know that was his whole thing is he was competing alone Yeah, just what can I do to beat me because There's no one else to compete with you know yeah, yeah That did you see that one that he put up the other day? I'll just so they take the two minutes legs What's that yes? Wait with the tape between his legs yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, picture Yeah, no Dante sent it to me as well Mind boggling perfection Like yeah, I don't know if you saw yeah Some of the people that say stuff like you know, oh well Dorian wasn't the prettiest I'm like man there is like his physique I mean it's balanced his All hell you send it to Scott Just through this picture up cool. Yeah, I just look for what I didn't see it Also two in his Instagram while you need to know number one that is called Wallpaper for those who don't know behind him and number two Holy shit Did you get it Scott? Yeah, I'm waiting for to come through and while I wait for that I will also say Look for a question guys like a good finishing we need like a good finisher as I tried to pull this up Do you send it on Instagram? I send it to your what's like your phone number that's on your computer Yeah, no and It's probably coming oh my god, it's way I got it Ron has it. Yeah, it's probably on that's way here. No lost in that I'll just send it to your phone real quick. I always forget for whatever reason when you started texting us off your computer one time It went to you and Ron are on a computer one so I sent you your phone just now. Okay, okay. Oh really Huh Something get screwed up on that it's your phone number in his like Well, I see in RAM now Yeah, I got to get rid of that. You know This is a mess. I got it on my phone and I can send it to myself Why don't you guys find something though find a good? We need a good finisher question something to leave the people with you know With with feeling like they they've they tuned into something worthwhile and that they're Happy to leave and a good no And I'm gonna try to pull it's no pressure yeah And this thing is this it took me only we're doing so to me to me two hours to find this picture by the way There's incredible just That's 93 right 93 yeah, okay, and that is also any of the injuries Yeah, look at that table yeah, look at him kind of furniture Did he think his mom's house or something He looks like a children, you know, I mean a 90s bro So just think like you know Just think you know he's a rainy mr. Olympia in this picture Yeah, because he won a 92 that's a TV he's watching is that a 20 inch That a VHS Yeah, all in one Okay, it looks like it. That's nice It's really classy for the time. Yeah, no judgment no judgements. You know what I mean? Yeah, it is a different time man. It's funny Old school hey I had something I wanted to tell you guys about We always get questions about like people when you hear about investment stuff So when I was a kid my dad would put like a little money away from me here and there and I remember we got involved with What was called like the internet fund? Technologies fund With Janice years ago and he put like just a small amount of money away for me and then over the years obviously from since like 92 That's growing a lot, you know, but it's not anything you're gonna like retire off of what it's not like a Bitcoin or something But it's right, it's a way that you can you're nice to have yeah, you could put your savings in there anyway I got involved in The Vanguard federal money market fund this year and So basically I don't know what I wanted to do with some little bit of money I had put away and it was just sitting in savings We said it's like the worst thing you can do right? I lose you money yeah, yeah So this is like a it's basically a mutual fund and it's federally ensured So like you are guaranteed not to lose anything on it and it's actually like made money. It's like made decent money So It's kind of cool. It's kind of cool and obviously the more you put in the more you make back But yeah, I put a little bit of money in that and it's cool. I get a monthly report So I wanted to throw that up there for anybody who's listening who's maybe in that position where they've got like a couple $1,000 in the bank and they're like hey, I'm gonna save this long term You could pull it out at any time, you know, and you're gonna make more money off of it than just sitting in the bank You could do it all yourself, too. You don't need like some help or anything. You just do it all on you Like Dusty said people forget that if if they're just sitting on cash technically they're losing money because of inflation Yeah, so Your cash is slowly worthless less and less and less and less when you sit on it So that's something you gotta keep in mind especially when you start accumulating any sort of savings So you know Yeah, definitely good advice. I had a guy last week Go ahead run I just say bring up stuff like that because honestly I have a professional that I work with Yeah, and one thing that I'm adamant about especially in the in our world I don't not everyone would be somebody who's speaking out of term So when people was do you have investment advice? I'm like no yeah, and that's why I can't like I can't give you expert advice I would send you to my guy who would give you expert advice so it's like Even sometimes I've said some things and I'm like oh man and I'll verify with him. I'm like what's that wrong? He's like no you're fine. Like Yeah, because you just don't want to be that guy that's giving out advice like and then somebody who's listening to show that's like a fine answer experts like Dusty some more on or Somebody loses money because they listen No, but my my financial advice to people is yes Like take action educate yourself You start saving somehow. There's a lot of different ways you can Invest in safe but if you're not investing in saving then you're truly Set new self up for a rough future. So yeah, my advice is like I had a 22 year old kid asked me last week Like what should I do to make sure that I you know have the money to bodybuild and I was like well first of all set yourself up at life Oh start Investing starts saving money putting some money away start making a budget. You know that sort of thing like You know like what Dusty's given the helping to give the gift of financial literacy to those two girls and You know that's that's that's awesome. That's that's the tip Yeah, you know yeah and the thing too is like the reason I brought this up is because it's one of those things that like You don't need to have like you're not gonna be if you have like 2,000 bucks that you want to do something more Than just putting the bank you're not gonna get a guy Like guys not gonna yeah, the guy's not gonna take time out of his day for you. You know what I mean, but But it is a step better than the bank is it gonna be like your biggest turn You know you're gonna make the biggest returns on it probably not but it's it's still a very true, you know Yeah, you know pretty pretty say a pretty safe long-term thing like you know on an average doesn't the S&P 500 out perform most hedge funds If you just go long-term like over to George. Oh yeah, yeah, so Even if you're just doing those those ETFs and stuff those are that's kind of a real you know relatively Smart and safe choice if you're gonna get into that type of thing too. Yeah, yep Okay, I remember what they were what they are now, but I remember back in the day when I first started Those things were like I think it was over seven years might have been nine They're average and 12 percent so I mean that's and there was an enormous than not I don't know it is now But it's really interesting some, but it was like that's a big number Yeah, you know to be locking those in and and you nail it around like I make the girls save 20% of every dollar they make And right now it's just saving and then in time it'll become other things But it's just my my initial plans get you still living off of the 80% of what you make Because most people live off 110% of what they make right right yeah, yeah, you don't want to be there I read how's this for I love these stories So do you guys know who Duff McCaggan is oh, yes, of course the base player the base player from guns and roses right Got a rate radio show on serious with his wife three cords in the truth. I love it anyways. He's a easy great guy. I like Duff And I was reading a bottom I can't remember where I read it, but I guess in 1993 If you think that was when guns and roses released the user illusion one and two albums Oh, yeah, right so they had like that double album in 93 there with November rain and all those huge hits And I guess that's when they really made a lot of money because you know appetite was a massive hit, but you know By by the early 90s they were really making money those tours were making the millions And he thought you know I don't want to be a broke 60-year-old rock and roll or so I should invest some of my money and he thought you know I really he's from Seattle So he thought I want to invest in my own community so he looked around at Seattle companies And he thought well and best in In these companies he invested in Starbucks he invested on this one Invested in like a bunch of these local Seattle companies right And yeah Yeah, and so I guess stuff McCagon has made more in the stock market investments He's made them from all of the music he's ever written and sold a bit of all with yeah, no kidding Yeah, I was you said Seattle like telling you gonna use or Starbucks in episode Yeah, yeah Why a bunch of Starbucks stock you know, yeah probably a several million at that point ready to just put somewhere You know So Victoria was talking about some a rapper. I can't remember who he was, but he's like heavily involved in the car wash industry And he like I don't know if you guys have him where you're at dusty, but we're getting these new car washes and it's like a club Where you do like a monthly fee You remember you yeah, you come as many times as you want. I have four of them Do you every recar our house as one of those Okay, okay, so yeah, then the new car wash and like I know a guy That I actually got in recovery with we both I knew him from high school We both ended up getting in recovery about the same time and now he's building those car washes he'll get like a loan And then he'll have that car wash built and then he flips it basically and he's a That's what he's doing for business, but this guy this rapper. He's like it's not a sexy thing But he gets involved in these car washes and that's like where all of his money goes that he makes with wrapping and then he turns it around I wish I could remember who it was, but it's not something you think of you know You think of rappers and you think of like oh he's in the weed industry or something like that, you know Right, I mean think it was I mean that's such a obvious great business. So I mean who doesn't wash their cars? I mean Yeah, people who don't wash their cars wash them occasionally Yeah, and you can go in there and pay hand to a rest if you want to buy one wash You don't who else likes car washes Hey There we go, see for the me again our case Not a lot of Not a lot of different yeah, look little something called a laundry mats A laundry mat right Are we still given it or are we still given advice to people here? This is also just different The different my name This is from Ron's teacher, I believe After you made the money selling me yeah What one of the biggest business guys is shack do you guys know shackle on over 50 over 50 different businesses like different brands Any other jobs? Yeah, he's got 150 car washes he's got 155 five guys burgers What's got in real expensive 19 pot 19 pop a john 17 anti-annas pretzels Okay, handful of good crispy crispy creams He also he also owns 60 24 hour fitness locations Yeah, like he's he just Six little that money that's amazing You could think too like he wouldn't really need to do any of that I bet he could probably just sit on his money Yeah, do whatever you want you know right as It is fat as he can and run out of time doing it. Yeah, you know That's cool though. I was just watching I don't know do you guys watch that? I don't have to talk back remember to short thing on Kelsey That's is on Netflix or whatever it is, but it's They're they're looking you know they're talking about a guy who he's trying to figure out what he's gonna do he retired this year just barely is announced his retirement from football and He's so much what he's gonna do and he's like oh, I don't think about real estate and all these different things I mean finished watching it, but what I loved about it was is while he's talking I'm like Quick Google what is he worth and I know these aren't accurate because mine isn't fully accurate, but I went and looked and it was like $40 million and I'm like wow he has no plans. It's just chilling He's like right now. What am I gonna do and I wish more people understood that because my mom died Attempting to retire and I'm like the thought of retirement is disgusting to me like I want to do something I mean it'll be something I fun. I want to do but like I can't imagine just being like all right I'm gonna stay home now And then what you know what I mean? I mean I'm gonna make Scott doing on podcast Yeah You know like you said I mean like shack has so much money his kids kids kids kids can't spend it all But it's just in the game and I love that yeah, yeah There's I you see that Andrew Tate real It came through my YouTube and it was Andrew Tate and he said Someone said like what's the limit of money and he said 20 million He said unless you want a yacht or a plane 20 million is the limit where nothing above that makes any difference whatsoever And it's saying because when you get to the 20 million part you have so many your money is making so much money for you That you can literally just try and waste it and you'll you'll never run up that is crazy He said and he said you know, but if you want to yacht or an airplane you need more than 20 million Because that's gonna be a big vacuum of like maintenance and constant taking care of and you have to hire yeah Like it's like you have to like basically only a company to take care of your yacht and your plane right? Yeah, so he said but if you don't want a yacht or a plane nothing makes a difference over 20 million and I just sucked that was pretty funny that You know that's that was his ceiling, you know, yeah, so yeah So we're almost there boys find those find those lines. I a friend of mine bought a a Oh, like a condo and Dana point So he goes and he puts the offer on the place and everything and then there was a hold-up and the hold-up was the real estate agent Couldn't find the owner So they had to Call around and eventually his pilot called the guy who drove his yacht and he was out in the yacht and they had to like he was like oh He had forgotten he had that house This is an old thing. I'm like Wait, so your pilot had to call the captain of his ship that you were on and it's going to remind you What is happening in this world and and why isn't there someone else that can sign off on this like Yeah, it was like it was obviously that wasn't like a long process But it was just a funny thing he goes you won't believe this. I'm trying to buy like my coolest little thing and this guy forgot to ever own it Right Is anybody in there he probably had never was funny is it in my his my real estate agent that That deal goes he probably never knew he'll he probably never saw it like that was just a thing Someone bought or you know what I mean Yeah, whatever reason he was required on some piece of it which I guess isn't normal either That's that 20 million mark when you said that about a pilot. I was like yeah Yeah, yeah, it couldn't be you can find me anytime guys. I'm in my house. The one yes Okay, was that it for the show Scott Completely come off the rails. I'm not sure we talk about nothing we gave them some some financial Asperations at the end. Thank you It was uplifting You know water washes. Yes I wash your car help. I didn't want to help anybody today anyways Okay, remember like share subscribe comment and ring the bell There you go. Thank you very much remember I am you dot com dusty 20 bigron 20 get your ISO surge get your all in and get on the gear Thanks a lot Scott what's what's you got something I do Mutant let's go Arnold we we should at least let people know because they may need to make plans Guys come out to the Arnold and see the three of us we're all gonna be at the mutant booth and the All thing we'll have to we'll have to tell them this again for people that are not part of the last five minute crew There is gonna be like a little podcast set up that's gonna be happening through the whole weekend So please come up and say hi to us and stuff and we're giving you time We don't want to tell them last minutes so they say I would have gone But I didn't know you should have told me sooner right now You know come out last five I'm just gonna be asking anyways, but whatever And and and Scott let's start pumping the link's out for those shirts because people are asking me like crazy Yes, so people are ordering the shirts a they're gone we're getting the shirts are selling and people are freaking love in them So I mean what can I say I I'll be honest with you. I didn't order you guys a shirt yet That's the reason you didn't get them so it was Cuz I Oh yeah, I don't know what happened. I have a client who has our shirt and you don't have very sure So I go I go you know, I see it on him at the gym. Yeah, so it's kind of fun That happened I had that happened when mutant came out with the orange flavor of something recently I had a client right what do you think of the orange and I'm like orange what? He's like you didn't try for me about I ordered it online though. It's great. I'm like are you serious? Yeah, yeah, I never had it. I didn't know it existed my clients tell me about it I got the shirt. I'm on the juice. I'm like Great, I was in the commercial Right here where it says you loved it. I'm waiting. Why yeah, yeah, okay. Thanks guys. Remember everybody. It's just bodybuilding

I remember just that image of these two guys coming in and just dominating the gym. Like this is our gym now. That's exactly what I was thinking. You know what I mean? Like we decided to we decided to come here for a while and it's our gym now. So hello. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building Dusty Handsha Scott the producer McNally. My self-aggrandpard low. Like share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. There you go. Bring it. Welcome to The Show Gentlemen. Remember, I am mutant.com. Go to I am mutant.com. Get your ISO surge, get your all in. Everyone should get on the gear. And of course, use a code Dusty 20 big Ron 20. Either one, they both work. No regardless of what Dusty tells you. And of course, the think big Patreon Scott the producer has a Patreon for the channel. Keep all these shows rolling. What are all the shows again Scott? Just Sam and Blood Sweat and Gear. Blood Sweat and Gear. Muscled minds, drugs and stuff. Although we don't actually say that name on the show anymore just to help us stay on the stage. We've got all sorts of reaction stuff, you know? With you guys, it's just bodybuilding reacts. I've been doing reacts with John Hanson and we've got a new show with Cuba. So we got a lot going on. Yeah, yeah. It's showing some of the other games. We don't have a name. We don't even have a name. We've been asking people each week. It's kind of going to be coming like a run-of-point. We need to I will create a name. I'm good at this. It's about training Dusty. It's about training. I think you're welcome. Scott, Scott, show with Cuba. Got G. All right. Wow. Okay. That's it. Everyone. And then you could just call it SS. Scott's show WK. SSWK. It's just good. It's just good. It's just good. It's just good. It's just good. It's been good. It's been good. And he's getting ready now too. I think for Spain. So we talked to about training. And then we talked about how it applies to him each episode as he's dieting right now. I love it. Perfect. I like training with Cuba. He trained real smart. It was like the sets were perfect. He didn't do a lot of force traps. And remember, we were just doing one force trap per body part. Okay. So like we started with the flex in client. It's on the mute and on a mission episode. And we just go to failure. Like you're just hitting your literally your fail rep or the bark stops. Yeah. And then that's it. And then there was the one set we did a force trap on. And then the rest of the sets were just a straight ass failure. It was good. I thought, I don't break. I'm not going to break training with him. But super smart. And then he's strong as shit. Yeah. It was perfect. And yeah, it was good workout. And it changes form. Like we did a show about matching your training to your fuel source, to your food. And so how do you train during your prep, during, you know, like your recovery phase, during your off season and how does that change? He uses the term intensifiers for things like resin polystrop sets all of that. And so he'll remove those things when he's in that diet phase to still go to hard failure. But then gets rid of the stuff that would maybe eat into his strength. So that way he can do a strong job. Yeah. Yeah. I remember they started to do that through the off season too. That was also a Dorian thing. I remember Dorian saying that he would do no four strips at all for like six weeks at a time sometimes. And I think he probably lined it up with like, you know, coming down. Yeah. The supplements. Yeah. You know. Okay. What's the big topic for today? Not that that wasn't great. We did have one planned. So we dropped a couple really good reaction videos this past week. We got the branch for one out. We got the J-Color one out. And thank you, by the way, everybody for your comments and all the likes and stuff. People don't realize it, but just simply hitting the like button helps YouTube to get our show out there. So everybody who's watching, we appreciate you guys for all that stuff. But we got one common in particular on the branch video. And, oh, looks like we lost Ron's camera. They're Ron. Can you still hear us? Yeah, I could still hear you. But I'm nowhere to be seen. I'll just leave him come back. All right. He's been doing a lot of leaving, coming back to the hospital. I don't know. We're gonna have to figure this guy pretty soon. His life together. I mean, if he didn't have such good stories, he'd be gone, but I can't tell a story. So he's happy. All right. All right. So we got this one of the comments was I was a teenager training at Metro Flex during this time. Energy around there was insane to be 16 years old seeing these guys every day that you see in the magazines on top of the whole industry, being all about hardcore training was amazing. That time was my personal golden age of bodybuilding. And that just made me think imagine what it would be like to learn about bodybuilding at that time in that environment and it got me thinking what were the early experience as you guys had coming up in the gym? Because you guys weren't always big round part low and DC, you know, dusty handsha. So what was it like for you? What inspired you guys in the gym? Who did you see? Who were the big guys? Do you remember any stories from back in the day? Of course. I got lots. I'll tell one. Only what was a gym in Calgary. It was called pro bodies. And it was there for a long time. Like, I don't know what year it opened, but it would probably late 80s and then it was just there like all through the 90s and you know, 2000s. And whenever I went to Calgary, I would go train at pro bodies. And the owner's name was Rick. And Rick was like a, you know, big heavyweight bodybuilders is a good guy. And everybody knew him. And of course, Calgary is where all the wrestling was. Right? The heart's lived in Calgary, right? The heart's school. Heart had his wrestling school there. Calgary was very, very common to run into high level pro wrestlers that were maybe coming up to see the hearts or, you know, just all that sort of stuff, right? And of course, Stampede Wrestling was really big across the country in Canada. That was like a feeder league for the WWE F at the time. You know, guys would start and stampede wrestling and they'd be on Canadian television. And you know, the good guys would get pulled down to the states, you know. And so anyways, long story short is you go to pro bodies sometimes. And you'd see like, David Boy Smith or Jim Nighthart or Brett Hart or, you know, like any of those like that whole crew of guys, you know, training there and David Boy Smith was like, me and better say four plays for reps. So, you know, you're like 17 years old. And you go to pro bodies because they're like, I'm one of the big bodybuilder, Jim, and the big city. And you get there and David Boy Smith's their bench of four plays for reps and like laugh. And you know, and there's this accent. And he's like, just like, what a crew. You know, there was like, there was pro football players in there and all the bodybuilders from that city trained there and of course, older guys. But you'd go in there and I remember there was one guy had a great beard. So I knew he was like 50. And he was moving like the 150 dumbbells just hauling him off on the incline. Like, and this was in like 94. Like you didn't see 50 year old dude grabbing 150s and just smashing them for sets of 10. And you know, that sort of stuff. And it's everybody squatting five plates. But just seeing the pro wrestlers in there was, you know, I remember Brutus, a barber beef cake was in there one day. No, yeah. Like just hilarious. Like super stars, right? Like, you know, Hulk Hogan trained there. I mean, everybody went there. A macho man went there to train everybody went there when they were in Calgary. You know, so, but I remember just seeing those guys and, you know, I'm a bodybuilder. But these guys are like super stars. You know, especially to a kid, you know, like back in those days, you see a WWE F superstar in the gym. And you're just like damn, you know, and they were larger than life. You know, David Boy was big. He was bodybuilder, big. Let's go. So how old were you? How old were you? Did you say when you went there? Uh, well, I would have been like, I would have been like anywhere between 17 and 23. Okay. We were big. You were big by then. You were good. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I was getting big. Yeah, for sure. So, but they were bigger because it's David Boy's movement and you're full of nice. It's a pretty spull dog, man. You know, it's awesome. How about you, Dusty? Um, you know, so when I first moved back to Arizona when my hockey days were done, I walked into, I found a golds gym and it happened to be the gym and the East Valley of Arizona that all the bodybuilders went to. And I remember walking in and just seeing bodybuilders for the first time, like, good, good bodybuilders. And it was, it was, I kind of followed bodybuilding indirectly, like, most kids are aged, did back then. Like, even though I wasn't big into it, I would buy the magazines every now and then. I knew who Sean Ray was in Kevin the Roney and Ronnie Coleman and J. Cut all these guys prior to getting into bodybuilding because he just kind of somewhat watched. It was like watching superheroes. So seeing him in the flesh was really wild. And I remember it clicking that that's what I wanted to do. I was like, okay, if I can't play hockey anymore, I want to look like that. I just want to be a freak, you know. And so I was 20. And I was kind of watching from the distance and seeing what they were doing. But more just impress because when you've never seen someone in shape and the body move, it is different. Like to us now, you don't think any other. But seeing someone in shape. And but just something that's simple as a curl and watching the bicep and the break out, everything move, like blew your mind. So we just moved back. I got into the gym. I was staying at my mom's for a couple weeks waiting for my apartment to open up. So we get our get our apartment and it's a nice place. Got a pool. So I go down to the pool and I'm sitting there and laying by the pool and also and I see this guy walking. And I consider myself a relatively straight man. And he took a shirt off. And his wife had a ridiculous body. And I was not watching her. I was completely like that's the guy from the gym. And now he's sure to solve. And it's freakier than I thought. I mean, because he was in shape. And I'm just like, how is this real life? So a few months go by and I decided to screw it. I'm committing and I went up to him in the gym. I knew his name at this point and I was like, hey, Robert, his name is Robert. Farrow, he's still his own gym now and Arizona helps so many people. But I was like, I want to get huge. How do I do it? And this is where things changed from back then to now. He didn't want to talk to me about the perfect grams of this or that. He grabbed a piece of paper, a pen. And he wrote out a diet. And one of the meals was to go to Jack and a box every day and get to chicken fajita pita's double chicken, side of fries, and a slice of cheesecake. That was one of my meals and I did it every day. That's the only thing I could eat. I was like, done. And so that was the beginning of me starting to get big into bodybuilding. And what made it really cool was fast forward. I don't know, a decade. And I got him ready for his last show when he did Master's Nationals and he missed his procard by a point. Oh, you're kidding. Oh, you're kidding. Yeah. I'm a certain person. It was wild because I'm like, I'm prepping you now. That's interesting. But he got nasty. And he always did. I mean, you look back at how bodybuilding has changed because there were less shows back then. So when you would go to a show, they were stacked. I mean, there'd be 15 guys coming to win. Well, there's only bodybuilding, too. And it was a, you remember, right? I mean, you'd go to the show. And it was like after prejining, there'd be every beat out front. Like, oh, I got him. I got this guy. So it was really cool to come up like that and see those guys. And I still look back and think of that. So when you're in the gym now, I think you start to realize it. There are probably kids and people watching you that you don't know. Because I mean, I didn't say it worded them for months. Yeah. I just kind of watched from the side, like, man, you know. So there was that. And unlike Ron, I have to give two stories. There's one that just changed my life forever, which getting ready for my first show and seeing the guy who was going to win the overall few weeks later, walk out from the bathroom and just his trunks. I was like, we aren't doing the same thing. And I was in his class and it was, it was awesome. I mean, just seeing, because you know then in there, I think again, that's a change that I don't know that everyone has is I was like, I need to know what he's doing and not doing to be that lean. I'm not talking about the size. I wasn't worried about that, but he was peeled and I worked hard and I was lean. And I'm like, okay, there's something to be learned here. And again, I think the big takeaway that I hope this guy had that was watching them is all these guys were down to help me. That's ask. You know, I mean, this was, I didn't ask them like, prep me, but if I had a question, they would answer, you know, and then it got to the point where I was doing something stupid. They'd come tell me, I ain't knocked that off. But yeah, those are good times. I mean, as soon as I read that question, I'm like, oh, I can go for an hour and a half on my own on all these stories. I figured you could. That's why I wanted to ask you guys. Yeah, I'll do a second quick one. That's the way. Yes. I'll be quick. So I remember one day I was at the gym. I was in high school like grade 11. And it was like super, super cool though, like minus 30 Celsius, like, you know, you a diet side, if you're not wearing the right clothes, you know, Canada cold. Yeah, Canada cold, you know, four feet of snow, the plows and it's just snow banks everywhere. You know, the sea. The sea has been still plows have been up and down the street. And I'm setting the scene. It's just like winter absolute Canadian winter, right? You're trudging through the snow up the sidewalk to get to the gym door because they haven't been able to shovel it fast enough. Like crazy. And I'm looking out the window between sets and the windows covered in frost. Like the corners have thick frost in them. And it's like, I'm setting the scene, right? And the gym is very humid inside because of course, you know, the conditions like everyone still steam coming off them when they walk in the door. And it's like super cold. Anyways, this little festiva. Festive festival or whatever. Yeah, the little three cylinders. Remember? Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. It pulls up out front. And it's like having a hard time in the road because there's like so much snow. It's been plowed, but it's like, you know, kind of sliding around. And the guy parks it right in front of the gym. And he's too huge monsters get out. Like they're both 250. And back in like 1991, there weren't a lot of 250 pound monsters, right? These two guys get out big like army green winter jackets with the hoods up. And work boots and the gators, gym pants tucked into the work boots. And they get out and they get their bags. And it's in this little tiny car. So it's just visually hilarious. Yeah. Yeah, visually very impactful. And I'm like, what these two huge monsters has got out of that little Ford Festiva. This is ridiculous. And they come up to the gym. I've never seen them before. Turns out they had been at another gym for years, but they just wanted to try the other gym because there's only two main gyms in town. And they just came to my gym and I just hadn't seen them yet. And they came in, you know, stomping the boots and snow off their boots and like everyone turns on like who the East two guys. And they, you know, start they get a day pass or whatever. Take off the winter jackets. They got the gators, gym, California body wear, you know, tank tops with the boat, neck shirts, big huge guys, 250 pounds each. And the one, the one guy's got long like brown hair, you know, that kind of a hockey mall it. And then the other guy's got like Conan hair, but it's blonde, like long hair. They both had long hair. So they look like bar variants. Like they were like the closest thing I'd ever seen to the bar bear in brothers. Yeah. Right. And they come in to our was picturing. Yeah. That's like I'm basically like, oh, we have a, we have a set of our bear in brothers at this gym right now. Like I'm in, like that's what I'm taking. When they come in and they throw the bar on the rack, they pull this, pull the safety out right old school. Zing. Oh yeah. Hold this one. Zing, both safety's come out. And they start squatting the bar and they start stacking plates against the rack. Ding, ding, getting them ready. Make it sure no one takes a plate. And they put five plates on the floor on each side. And I'm like, oh, shit. And remember, 1991. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm like these guys are getting down to business and they, you know, one plate for 10, two plate for 10, three plates for 10, four plates for 10 and it's a grind. And then they throw the five plates on, wrap up the knees like hardcore like, you know what I mean? And everyone in the gym is like, ah, and I mean, I don't, I was already training hard. And they were already body builders in the gym, but these two guys just showed up. They're stealing the show. Yeah. Right. And they, five plate. They both five plates. They get like at least six to six date reps each, you know, they're, you know, holler and making noise and after they're done the five, they'd be a back off set. Like they're not even thinking like the terms we use and just how they train. And then, and then they finish squatting and they go over to leg press and they keep their workout going. And I remember just that image of these two guys coming in and just dominating the gym. Like, this is our gym now. That's exactly what I was thinking. Yeah. I mean, like, we decided to, we decided to come here for a while and it's our gym now. So. Yeah. It was just so, it's such a crazy visual to me at that age. I wound up becoming really great friends with the one dude, the other guy moved away, Kevin moved away. But Eric, I mean, Eric's like a lifelong friend of mine. And, and it's just I, I, I tell that story to people sometimes because I'll never forget those two monsters getting out of that festiva. And how insane the whole gym changed when they came in and started squatting. It was like everyone was on notice of like, ah, of course, no callers. They used to rattle the plates like crazy. Yeah. Oh man. Yeah. Just awesome. Did the, the plastic plates don't rattle. No. No. Yeah. Like, you know, and they think they wouldn't like, I remember they'd squat and like, one of the plates might wiggle out a little too far. Yeah. Yeah. And they just keep squatting like, yes, that's just part of the functional fitness element of squatting with their colors. That's what they were thinking. Functional. Yeah. Erika the ruin Kevin Jones. I'll never forget those two guys. It's crazy. We had a couple guys and I became friends with one of them. Scott Hughes and I had seen Scott Hughes since back at Powerhouse, Canton. So after I got serious into bodybuilding, I started going to Powerhouse. I wanted to go to a Powerhouse gym. And there's like a Powerhouse gym and literally at the time every city around me. You go to Powerhouse, Wesleyan. You go to Powerhouse, LaVonia. You go to Powerhouse, Canton. And then they had one up and farming to N Hills. So I chose Canton. It wasn't that far for me. It was a good gym. They all were about the same. They all were outfitted like in the 90s, had like the full hammer strength line up. You know, the the incline hammer, the flat hammer, the decline hammer. You see those three at every gym. Every single one of these gyms had everything about the same. Maybe one of them would have like the hammer shrug machine and the other one would have something else. You know, something random like that. But I remember Scott was in there with his brother and his dad would train at the same time. Now his dad was really old. Like I'm talking, I'm talking like hobbling over. But he would spend about a good half hour at the at the squat rack and he'd load that thing up. It's heavy. He could. I can't remember what he was doing. But he was at least doing a few plates. He was pushing. At least a couple plates. I think maybe getting into three and he'd only do like one rep though. But just keeping his strength. But Scott on the other hand, he was a big guy. Like him and his brother, they were both like taller, stockier guys. Like kind of like like your build run, just like a taller guy, wider frame, you know. And they were both really strong. But Scott kept training. And so we kind of followed each other around. Like after Canton closed down, we both went over to Novai. So I'd see him. I'd known him for years. He got to be really big too. Like super heavy big. The thing about him is he got, he was so loud. He was so loud. He would get kicked out of gyms because he made so much noise. It was like, it was like to the point where it was, it was too much. You know what I mean? Like it was over the top. But like powerhouse farming, powerhouse Novai was the world headquarters, 60,000 square foot gym. When you're over at the counter and you're checking in and they're trying to, they're trying to make it into like more like a fitness club, kind of feel. Because if the world headquarters, it's in a very nice area. And Scott is literally the other side of a 60,000 square foot gym around a corner and down the ways and you could hear him squatting from that front. Like ball your checking. Yeah, Scott's here. So yeah, he ended up getting kicked out probably a handful of times. In fact, do you remember Ron? We did that podcast years ago. I called it the Death of the Hardcore Gym. And I interviewed you. Yes. Yeah. And I'm too about getting kicked out of gyms on that same episode. I don't know what I mean. Yeah. But he is a cool dude. He's a cool dude. And I still remember when I was getting serious into it, watching him train and just thinking, oh my god, those guys are so freaking strong. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. First time you see somebody rep in five plates on the squat when you're a kid. Yeah. You're like, oh, no, you're putting like, you know, you're squatting two plates. Right? Yeah. Yeah. Oh man. OK, we got some listener questions, buddy. Guys, we have a bunch of listener questions. And I want to remind everybody to comment below because we can always use more. Yes. So we did get a, this was more of a comment. This was on the Jake Colour one. He said, do you guys think there's a chance you could invite a seat on the show? We've got a couple of times. There's a chance the show. Yeah. Not a lot twice. We've had a lot of twice. And he had the same technology both times on his head. Yeah. We're hoping that eventually technology gets to the point where Chris doesn't have to think about it all. It just happens for him automatically. Yeah. I'm sorry. We're acquiring one of his kids be there with him. Right. To run the same forum. Because you're youngest son there. Perfect. Have him set this up. Yeah. All right. Show. You only have bands and dumbbells backstage. Maybe a pull up bar. What would your pump up routine be? And I went when I thought about that. I thought of my first show where they actually had like an entire one of the local gyms would bring all the weights. And they would be a room where they do you guys remember that? They'd have all the real weights there. They don't do that anymore so much for state shifts. I am. Yeah. I don't need dumbbells at all. I mean back in the day we had them. It was cool. But it would supply. It would be a bunch of dumbbells on the floor. But I would just need like a set of 20s. Yeah. Fifty and even. I would just like do some push-ups. But you got to remember the day of the show. You only have so much blood. You can't pump them. Everybody part, right? And you know, there's I think quads and triceps can lose detail if you pump them too much. I think usually sometimes lots. Some guys are lats get crazier when they pump them. So you only have so much blood. So you know, you just got to kind of look at your physique and say like, you know, do I need to pump my delts? Like maybe your delts are crazy and your pecks are kind of flat. So I would just do like a bunch of push-ups and try to drive more blood to your chest. So think that way. Like what actually makes you look better? You know, when you pose after your workouts, do you look better on delt day? Do you look better on chest day? Do you look crazy on how your back looked nuts when it's pumped? Or does it kind of lose detail and fog out a bit? So it's just, I don't know, no your body. You don't have to pump everything. Bands are plenty. We used to use a towel. This gets you guys at the towel and you'd roll with the lats. Do latt rows of the towel or you do the buddy ladders and the one guy's doing his delts and like, as doing his pecks and buddy ladders, we used to do that and then just some push-ups. You know, get the veins and your arms going to some, you know, band curls and you're good. I think the biggest, the first thing I would say regarding pumping up in general is you need to be ready to pose. You do not have to work out back stage. And then be shocked when you're exhausted for posing. I mean, like it's, it's, and you will see it. Even at the national level with newer people, I'll watch them. And they're like working out over there and I haven't gotten oil yet. I'm just sitting in the corner, waiting, waiting. My entire routine prior to going on stage would be when they said, okay, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up. I was like, okay, so we have 25 more minutes because they're always way too early. Right. Right. Wait, tell the very end. And then literally I would do ladder raises with the, with the bands, some curls. And then just leaning into a bench, some close grip push-ups. And I was ready to go. Like it doesn't take. And then when I'm waiting in line, I would just kind of like squeeze, squeeze muscle, do a row with no weight, squeeze your back. And you'd be good to go. So I think if anything, I would recommend underdoing it to overdoing it. We, I would advance for Nicky to have backstage of my Kirchabans. You're going to need to work on these for three and a half minutes. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I think that, um, pumping up is technically overrated. I'd like to overfocus on it. Um, I think that posing, you should run through several rounds of poses. They don't know yourself and over. But you got to really get all your tissue moving and stuff is good flexing and squeezing. It's like dusty said. But you know when you do your videos, I mean, so here's something you should be videoing your posing, right? Yeah. And you should be doing multiple rounds and you should be thinking to yourself, Oh, I always look better on my third round. Um, I back room glutes, or I was tighter after. So then do those rounds backstage, right? Like some people don't think of that. They're like, Oh, yeah, I look great in my pictures when I take the fourth video and screenshot it, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The only one round that'll land in fourth place. Um, yeah. I like the, I found one that nobody ever told me, Hey, you should do upright rows. But for me, upright rows just kind of like filled everything out of top plus got my biceps. So for me, upright rows were always one that I do always do with the band. And it's just I figured, Hey, this looks really good for me. Because it kind of hit like everything from that like shoulder girdle plus the biceps. I was like, I like this one. Oh, yeah. Yes. You know, yeah. I remember the head, um, there was a show. When I went on my grand tour in 2017 and I was like, I'm going to do a show in LA. And, and, and they had the pump up area in the back and then the door was open. So you could go outside in the sun and pump up with the heat coming down on your head. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was a good feel. It was because Detroit, you really didn't have any of those options. There's no go out at the sun, especially if it's like an April show. You know, I'm a very nice host. Yeah. Yeah. There is no sun. I remember I was at a show one time. And I was, uh, it was night show. And we were just backstage and there was this one old guy. Is like a master. Yeah. He was covered in veins. Like just sick in the morning. I saw him and he just fucking, he's just one of those guys, right? Yeah. And then he he comes walk around the corner at the night show and he's even crazier. And I go, dude, what did you eat? And he goes, oh, no, I just been standing in the sun. He, he found the side door. He's like this old veteran and he's like, oh, look at for some heat. You know, like, remember Dave Puss and Ellie used to take the blow dryer? Yeah. Oh, dryer thing just pulled me out. So he's like, nah, found a door. I got some sun on me. Look at my quads and he's like, that's my old man's impression by the way. Your impressions were becoming infamous. So keep those roll. Yeah. He sounded like a sailor. Yeah, essentially. I did. I did. Maybe he was. I'm thinking I did have one. One, I got a story. I got to tell you guys. So this was at the Redford Theatre in Detroit. So this is, uh, this is a pretty, they stop doing shows at the Redford, by the way. Um, and in part of it was like kind of this. Yeah, because of this. Because of this incident. Because of the, because of the, because of the cried, they stopped doing shows there. And they, they kind of took it out to the suburbs. But it's a beautiful old theater. And, um, it's, I can, I can tell you all about that. But the story was the backstage sucked. It was like the size of my office and there's like one light bulb hanging down. And the walls are painted black. So you can't see anything back there. And everybody's trying to pump up. And I know we had 15 minutes. The other option was to like walk behind the curtain, the, the back of the stage, along the curtain, along the wall. And then it opened up to this other side. But it, if you, if you, there was nobody to tell you like when you're, when your, when your class was going on. So if you got caught over there, you're going to be screwed. Anyway, I couldn't see anything. I needed to put oil on. And this guy, I kept running into the same guy. We kept doing the same shows. He was from like another part of Michigan. Never saw him any other time. Facebook wasn't even super popular yet. But we'd run into each other to the shows and we'd always compete against each other. I was like, hey, what's up, man? You know, so him and I were like, hey, let's go outside and we'll put our oil on outside. We've got 15 minutes. So we walked through, we had to walk through the front of the theater and walk out the front doors, walk down the sidewalk and then walk over to the alleyway where we're going to, to our dance. And there's a, it's hot. Okay. It's a summer day. There's a bunch of people from the hood all hanging out all over the streets. That means my flip flaps and some purple underwear. Guarding tape. So it's this other guy, you know? Oh boy. Nice. That's thing, guys. We're going to go. People were yelling at us. They're like, but also think, but also got to and close. Stuff like that we hear all this stuff. And we were just like, oh shit, we're back there, put an oil on each other and everything. Yeah. That was, that was a, yeah. There was a lot of show in the neighborhood from two men, Paul and the Robert 90 Jr. It's something you would expect to see in San Francisco not to try it. Yeah. Brown deponated to try it for sure. That's amazing. That was, that's, that's the lead story right there. Yeah. It's got in another guy in the alleyway. This side of the, yeah. Yeah. I don't know if I got some loovin' and alleyway. Yeah. Yeah. If I was a type of guy that was going to like try to rob people, I would probably what's want to keep distance from both of you. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I was going to run up to you and try to touch you. What are you going to take? Yeah. Yeah. I got to tell you one more then because we remember talking about weird tans. We're talking about the cow tans are weird. So I, I may have told you guys this a long time ago. I know I told it, but it's been years on another show that my girlfriend and I were going to the night show and I'm, this is back when you did your own tans. So it's not super even. It doesn't look really good, right? And I've got my hoodie on. I had the same old rotten hoodie that I would wear to every show because it would just get a mask up. And I'm sitting in the past your seat and we had to get gas. So I'm sitting there like this just in the past your seat and she gets out of the car. We're driving to the red for theater, rough area. So we stop and get gas happens to be a rough area. Some lady starts walking over to the car and you could tell she's down on her look. Looks like she's strung out and she's no question. She's going to be like, hey, do you have five dollars? You know, something like that. And she gets close to the car and I look up at her and she makes eye contact with me and literally stops. And turns around and walks away. I might be done on my luck, but this guy's way worse. She didn't know what to think. She was like, yeah, no, we're not going to talk with you. You look like a cracked out math head with his hood up. You got these old kids. You got these old kids. Yeah, yeah, covered in dirt. Yeah, she was like, oh, this car got already out of the car without her knowing. Yeah, yeah. So this car already has a homeless person in it. I was walking away. That's what a pretty much looks like. Yeah. Seats taken. She's taken. So anyway, that was my, I was going to tell you guys that the other week. But I missed it. We were out of time at the moment there. Should have made time for that one. Yeah, that was good. How about this? What's the best exercise or exercises to bring out the Adonis belt or the lower abs slash oblique? Oh, that's body fat levels. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, get leaner. Just got to get leaner. You know, if, you know, if your abs suck, train your abs too. No, some guys have big brick abs. They don't really need to do crunches and stuff. But if you don't have those, you know, might help once you get lean enough. But, you know, lift heavy and hard. You should have core muscles. Yeah. All right. So here's one of the, I would be interested here with you guys have to say. Jerry asks us. He says, um, if you guys posted on a timeline, social media page or somebody, uh, uh, somebody's famous and they actually respond and you end up having a conversation and then you think to yourself, holy crap. I'm actually talking to so and so. I've been posting on the net since the 90s. And I'm still enamored at how easy it is to have a conversation with people these days that never what happened in years prior. So it's gotten to a conversation with Robert Irvin, Josh Gates and a few others and was absolutely blowing away. If possible, maybe give examples outside of body building. Thanks guys. Keep up the great work. Hmm. That's interesting. Idea, like interesting thing that could happen. I don't necessarily know if I could think of anyone outside of body building that I've corresponded with online, um, who's like crazy famous, you know, I talked to a lot of, I've talked to a lot of people that are really great. Like I've talked to a lot of people that are maybe world, you know, world champions at what they do. Yeah. Um, but, you know, um, I wouldn't say they're famous. I haven't had like a, you know, I don't know, an Instagram thread going with Ryan or anything like that. You know, though he is from Vancouver. Don't. I do. But yeah, I'm the same. Like, because I don't, I mean, I just don't interact. Um, the adults. I think that I can, you know, can think of is, and it wasn't like a star struck thing. It's just the realization. Like when you're training and in gold's vinaus back in the day, you quickly realize what a lot of people don't understand, which is that people are just people. I mean, you're training gold vinaus. You will run into like a list of celebrities. And they're like, I guess, bought. Because I'm just, yeah, you know, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's just that. It's what he was about. I think actually the, the, I think the coolest, I didn't spot, but the coolest person that I met and seen train was John Cena because he is an animal. Yeah, that was, that was actually in San Diego at World Gym back in the day, which is now called the gym. He would go into the gym and train like any of us like an animal in leaf. Yeah. I mean, there's no, there is zero celebrity with that guy. Yeah. That's cool. That he is a celebrity. Yeah. It's, I mean, that's not one where you look around. There's John Cena squad in five plates. Okay. Cool. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But he, it's, that I think that's the main takeaway, obviously, because I, it's not online with his comments, but you do just realize like, of course, if you have something to say that you know, hits them or something they're interested in or have a opinion on, you know, it is nothing to them. They're not thinking like, oh, I'm talking to this peasant. Yeah. Oh, good, good thought. I didn't think about that, you know. My very first time in gold Venice, I ran into Routy Routy Piper and he was like, you know, when I was arresting fan in the 80s and 90s, right? So, you know, I'm at the gym and I go to use this machine and this older guys on, he's guys hood up and he's kind of got a limp and he's doing curls and I just go, hey, how many sets got left? And he goes, oh, it's working. And I'm like, oh, it's ready. Ready paper. No. And so I just said and then he kind of chatted and I had a Canadian flag on my belt. Okay. Oh, can you go from Canada and I was like, yeah, it goes, oh, oh, oh, oh, a man and he like shook my hand. And then like I went and now I want to back to training and arms with Craig Titus that day, which is another story. And then afterwards, I think it was maybe the next day I saw Routy again and he walked me down to Max Mussel. No, kidding. Yeah. Like Routy's like, I go, hey, he's sitting on the bench outside with this dude and I go, hey, do you know where Max Mussel is? And he goes, oh, yeah, walk you down. He's going to eat. And so I just walked with Routy Routy Piper like on the street down and then he goes, it's right there and then he goes on fire houses right there and I was like, oh, awesome. You know, but I'd already been to fire house with Craig the day before. So I was like, that was a fun trip. Yeah. But yeah. But it's just funny, you know, like Routy Routy Piper and you're right, you're like, dusty said like, maybe it's something about the gym. Like you see a celebrity in other settings, it's different. You see him at the gym and as a gym person, you're like, oh, that's like, I'm not going to bug that person. It says like sacred time. You know, like I get it. They're just like me. The gym maybe is a little bit of a different type of place to see a celebrity. Yeah. Maybe brings everything down to the same level a little more, maybe. I don't know. Good to see. Gravity will do that to you. Yeah. 200 pounds is 200 pounds, man. So I kind of lied that wasn't the question. I was really excited to hear your opinions. But as I started reading it, I was like, oh, yeah. There's a restaurant. Oh, by the way, we've covered a lot of wrestlers today. Yeah. We really had a wrestling. Yeah. Just for a potential wrestling addition. Sorry about that. All right. How about this one? Here's a question given Dusty's joke about posting a client's pictures without permission. And because I've seen it. It's about four times now. A coach posts their clients. AM check-ins with a complete complete with a toilet seat donut imprint on the back shot. And I wondered, should a client expect that their check-in photos will be posted without noticed? I was rather irritated that the coach outed me outed my before and after. Oh, okay. So it happened to him too. Which I don't dare post publicly myself. He says irritated. Not horrified. I've never done that. If I, you know, you know, you know, you don't matter who it is. If I want to, first of, usually I only share anything you see on my page means they've already shared it. Yeah. Just re-aggusting. Or if they have like a really good transformation, I'll ask for permission. Like, hey, you know, pressure, but I'm, you know, just tell them like, it's not even about me. It's just super proud of your work and I'd like to put it up. And yeah, no one's ever said no, but I've never. It's like Ron said last episode. This is not part of the deal. That's stealing at that point. If they want to be shared, then absolutely. And the same thing I took clients in the beginning, like, if you tag me, I will re-share if you don't. I just assume you don't want people to know we work together and that's fine. That's, that's poor taste of a coach to do that. Yeah, I, this whole thing like, I, I don't know. I, I, I hear stories like, okay, you have to put my name in your bio and all photos sent to me or my property. Yeah. Like, this whole thing, like, fuck. Like, just coach the person. Like, I don't care if anyone even says my name. I could give less of a shit. Like, you could go when you're show. Obviously, it's nice if you say thank you. But like, you don't have to put up a post. You don't have to tag me. If you do, I'd be very happy to share it. But that's just, yeah, I don't know. That's stuff kind of irritates me. Especially when that's the thing. Especially when that's the thing. So the background and the foreground that they won't repost, I think that will help you a lot. Yeah, or yeah, just tell them like, hey, don't, I don't know. I'd be mad like, if I was this person who doesn't want to even post them themselves. Right? Yeah. Like, it's one thing if you're like a world champion. Like, I'm sure Milo's can throw up a photo of Regan without asking him. Right. Yeah. Because like, it's not, there's a difference, right? Totally different thing. For sure. Yeah. You can get ready for a show, maybe yourself conscious about your, you know, you take your hamstrings or small, that you don't want to get flamed or whatever. Like, coach, coach can't just go blasting everybody. Look, look at my work, you know. Yeah. I consider that similar to when people decide randomly to screen shot a private conversation over text and post it. I'm like, yeah. Whoa. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Yeah. Every time I see it, I just cringe. I'm like, I don't think that was meant to be public or it would be reply all. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I've got that happen to me. I have had that happen to me. Yeah. Yeah. And it's like, you know, luckily I didn't say anything dumb, but it's the person was just like, oh, look, this person agreed, you know, Ron agrees with me and they posted a screenshot. And I was like, oh, good thing it wasn't anything terrible. Oh, I did to you guys the other day. Do you remember that? Yeah. Well, Ron saw it dusty didn't because he's not part of the, the Facebook group. Remember that comment was there was there was a question in the group, but was something like, what if Ron and Dusty were a couple who would be the top, something like that was remember that. And I screencapped that and I sent it to you guys. You guys had a couple funny jabs and I screencapped that and I posted it. I was like, here's their response guys. Oh, yeah. Well, yeah. That's a vegan meal of a moment. Yeah. You're trying to promote the overall goodness of the show, right? Yeah. I think too, like you were saying, Ron, though, that if anybody wants to read, like, like, when you reach a certain point where your whole life is on the internet, I don't need permission. Like you don't need to ask me permission for anything up. Right. But I don't think because I had a client one time I was going to add one more insult that, decided it would be a good idea to post a cycle. Dusty has me using. Oh, yeah. Whoa. No, Dusty said if you lived in a country where it was legal and had pathetic, you were going to do these things. This is what you would do. This is what Dusty would do if you were in that situation. It would mean, and I was in this legal. I was like, I really call, I immediately reached out. I'm like, you're an idiot. I mean, I wasn't even nice. Yeah. No. Absolutely not. What are you doing? We don't live in England. This is different. Yeah. But yeah, you got to use your head a hair. The coach is really due to time to think there's some sort of ownership. Yeah. You know, I mean, you don't need to write how many clients wins you have in post a big board and a big picture and so I've won five or six two shows because you haven't. You've won none. Anyways, moving out far earlier conversation. What do you guys think of this? What do you guys think of like, I've had people say to me. Like, oh, yeah, I don't have a coach right now. Well, I kind of do, but I don't. And I'm like, what do you mean you kind of do? Well, I signed up with this one guy for six months. So I still own. I'm still paying him for another two months, but like I told him I didn't want to work with many more, but I can't really afford another coach right now because I'm still paying this other guy for another two months. But does he reach an out to you? Then? Well, theoretically. But I'm just giving you the conversation. Yeah, like, yeah, I want to get a new coach, but I can't write now because I'm still paying this other guy. Like, what do you mean? Like, while I sign up for six months. Oh. But what do you mean? Like, like, he's got you know, like, a contract like a gym? Yeah. How does that work? I don't know. I think that's just ridiculous. I love them, dude. Fire him. Just message him and go, I'm not going to work with you anymore. And he goes, okay, cool. And he turned your payment off. That's all I should be. Yeah. You know, I had a guy when I was in a coma that had to go to another coach that part of the deal. While I was in a coma knowing I hopefully wasn't going to die, was for him to take it over. He had to sign a one year with him. Oh, wow. Yeah. Like, what do you mean? Sign a one year. Just tell that person to shove it together. There's a funny as part because yeah, there's, there's, for those watching, there's there's no repercussion. You just go, yeah, no. And you're talking to the lead credit card company and you tell them don't allow them to take any more money. Yeah. Simple. Yeah. Yeah. Like, if you're a good coach, you shouldn't need to trap people with a contract. Do they? Chris Ascido has people signing a shit? No. Yeah. God, no. Like, come on. Actually, like, in, I think my question here that's part of it is this is month to month for everyone. And what he ups the contract is when you pay again. That's it. And if you stop, it's fine. I mean, literally said it because my whole thing is this every month, I'm earning the right to train you again. And if I don't earn it, we're done. Or if you don't want to anymore or you run on a month, it doesn't matter. I don't want a client who doesn't want to be with me either. Like, yeah, like if you stop checking in, like there's people where like they stop checking in and I reach out to them. And I hear, oh, sorry, sorry. I don't get right back to you. And then like another month goes by and I reach out to them again. I'm like, hey, I've given you a check to me forever. Like, guys, I'm really busy. I get to again. There comes a point where I'll just turn their payment off. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Like, I've turned, I turned to guy off the other day because he didn't respond to me for a little while. So it's turned his payment off. And then he got back and then all of a sudden he message me because he doesn't got the email. Yeah. And then he message me, he's like, oh, I'm so sorry, man. I'm going to get you set a photo here right away. Oh, my god. Man, I just didn't want to keep taking your money. Right. You'll worry the way. He's like, I'm almost done building my house. You know, blah, blah, blah, blah. I'll reach out to you again right away. I'm still training. I was like, okay. Yeah. But like, shouldn't. No, I don't know. I don't want to take people's money if they're not. They're not actually getting a service, you know. Yeah. That side I did have one guy who paid me for a month. And I spent all the time writing out his diet. Yeah. Put everything together for him. And then for training, I said, all right, I want you to, you know, start doing what you've been doing. But send me videos and let's talk about your training. Never got back to me, never checked in once. And it was through PayPal. And then I got to dispute. He wanted his money back like three months later. Never heard back from him. I gave him his money back. But he was one of the, what's that? I've done that. But if you do it against, because I did the work, when that dispute, I'll tell you, it sounded to be PayPal that it was done. Yeah. I was telling you. I once in 14 years, I happened one time. Yeah. And in fairness, I reached out to the lady, told her, and something had went on. And she said, dispute it. But I'm going to need a new PayPal. So it wasn't even her fault. But something weird happened with her account. And I guess they locked out everything. And I was one of the ones who's automated, disputed. So I think that I reached out because I was pissed when I saw it. I was like, what the hell? Yeah, I called the guy. And of course he did. I called him right away. He didn't answer. And he was one of the few people that I thought about posting his picture without his permission. Because I was angry. I was going to post it and be like, hey, I can't remember his name was. I could have remembered his name was. But if it was, I was going to say it and say, hey, coach is look out for this guy. You know? That I did. Here's the bench for you. Yeah. How much money have people not paid you? Too much. I'd probably be rich by now. Seriously. Seriously. I'm terrible at that. Really. Yeah. It's been a lot. And that's it's some of it's your own. I mean, they're always my fault. Yeah. Because I let it slide. Or you'll let it accumulate. And the thing is, is like when you're in a prep. And they're, it's going well and they come on a hard time like there's that part of me that I'm also like in the trenches with them. Yeah. And I'm like, I do like. Please don't screw me. And we do the work and it goes well. And 99% of the time they pay. So, you know, there's just that occasional. But I think it's important to understand just like lowening money. When you're lowening money assuming not getting it back. That way it's not a terrible thing when you don't. Yeah. So you got to do that. Like as a coach, if you make that decision, understand you're making a decision that will probably or could possibly cost you the time and you won't get the money. Not the end of the world if you'll good about it. Yeah. I had a weird one once I helped this guy. I remember it was a 16 week prep. He looked really good. He had stridey glutes. He got second out of like 10 guys. He's a light heavyweight. I remember it. And then he, uh, sorry. As a Jeff Smith, the kidding. Yeah. Yeah. So I looked at Jeff Smith. Um, no. And then he, uh, he message me after this show. And he's like, uh, he goes, hey, uh, can you, you know, since my shows over, can you turn my payment off? And I go, yeah, I have no problem. Like, you know, he's like, I just can't, you know, I can't do like an offseason or anything right now. I got to like, and I'm like, yeah, no problem. So I said, yeah, I turned your payment off. No problem. And I go, you know, just, you know, don't blow up. Watch me, you know, take, you know, and I said, I'm going to send you this, you know, a little kind of thing you can follow. And, uh, and I did. And then he message me again. He's like, hey, um, I was wondering if I could get a little bit of a refund. And I go, look, for what? And he goes, well, my, my payment came out three weeks before my show. So I actually paid for an extra week after that I don't need. And I'm like, yeah, but you pay by the month. Yeah, it's like, you can keep going. You can keep going after the show and stuff like that. I even gave you a rebound plan. Yeah. On like the Monday, which is technically like two days after your show. So that was only five days left that I'm not helping you. Like, when you're going to, every day's written that month because you're going to do the math and you're going to divide. Yeah, yeah, okay. You want to, okay. We'll break only calculator. 23 to the right. How many first. Like, you want me to refund you like 25% of a month because your show was three weeks into the month. Like, come on now. Like just, yeah, weird, weird stuff. Yeah. All right, I'm leaving. Learn. How about this one, guys? He says also from Patreon. What things were challenging to you when you were north of 300 pounds? So we talked about this before, but I'm looking for like one specific. Things like cutting toenails, dealing with your hair, trying to tie shoelaces, trying to put on a jacket. I remember trying to put on a seatbelt. I wasn't even 300. No wear near 300 pounds and it was very uncomfortable. Just to go over there like that. I remember doing that same form was that difficult. You just, you're on bottom. That's it. That easy. The ones you can slods are so huge when you're 320 plus your quad just so huge. And and and chicks try to ride you, but their knees don't touch the bed. So they're unlike a, you're your quad just so huge that they can't like even, you know, like, got some people nodding currently that are listening this episode right now. Any woman who's both the biggest vibe was like, yeah, yeah, kind of changes the game. You have to go froggy girls froggy. Oh, yeah. Yeah. What all those jokes girls, girls of squaddle day and then 10 seconds into riding. They like, oh my knees. Oh, my knees. You did just three times a week. What do you mean your knees? Come on. And second up. Oh, very, very true. Oh, man. That's good stuff. I think we answered that. I think we answered that. Yeah, you just covered that. It's a group and this stuff. All right. What's an ideal body fat for a natural guy for growing. He says, should you be like 8 to 12% body fat anywhere else in between that? Thanks and love the show. Ah, you know, I don't see like, I know I got a little fat or then I probably needed to, you know, like a dozen times or so. But I don't think like, does any wrong with that 10 to 12%? I mean, you're still pretty lean at 10 to 12%. I would even say up to like 14 is acceptable for like a big due off season. But again, like, what do these numbers mean? Are we talking Dexis scans or, you know, calipers? Right. So it's it's hard to say. But yeah, I mean, like a big due drop in 50 pounds for a show is not that out of, you know, it's not that crazy. You know, 40 pounds a little bit better, maybe. But, you know, there's room for. I think I think that you kind of nail that which is, I used to always, if I was going to put a number on it. It'd be 14, but if I was really going to put something on it would be, if your body fat is high enough that it's negatively impacting your training, it's too high. Yeah. And that takes place if if options become an issue because you're too fat. If your lower back is tightening up all the time because you're too heavy, those are the factors I look at more than anything. But I do think that because of social media, guys are trying to stay too lean and grow, especially if you're natural and or you don't want to abuse the hell out of drugs. Because that is a missing length that doesn't get talked about right now. Guys are, I got a guy down the road that's 8% by fat and he's growing and I'm like, I want to see his blood work. Yeah. Because there is a reason if you go back to the 90s and 2000s and if you ever been to the bodybuilding show and you saw Ronnie Coleman roll in at 330, he wasn't lean. Jay Cutler, go on line for those of you who don't know what type of look at that era at the Pittsburgh pro or you know when the guys would come in and guess post. They're soft because that's how you get big. You know, and I think that that is a magic particular is a natural because you don't have something to enhance you beyond food and training. So you're going to need to grow up. Yep. I'll see you dug up, pull up a picture of Ronnie gas posing. Yeah, buddy, here we go. Here we go. Let's see here. Here you go from Pittsburgh pro. She's like I've seen it before boom. Yeah, there's a big Ronnie for you. And then these guys would say, oh, that's way too. You don't need to get that fat. It's seen the work out okay for him. Yeah, you got relatively lean. Come October every year. Look at this. You could still see his abs in this one. He's not looking too rough. He's in great shape. You know what I mean? He's not looking too rough there. No, I'm not looking for a top here. That's a that's blown out. That's like I guarantee you that's after a show or you know, yeah, he's tied his head there. That's. But he looks pretty just like full blow in there too. Oh, yeah, he's got like five meals in him. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's all life was full blown for about two decades. I have a friend at Brock Ronnie up a bunch of times for guest appearances. Yeah. It's not like I'm a man with status house. And he would just say he's like, man, like, I just became like a joke. How many stakes could Ronnie eat? How much people would just hear? Like he said he would just feed him like he would almost be a joke. Like he tried to stalk his fridge with so many stakes and so much food that Ronnie couldn't eat it. And Ronnie we need it. And it just proves that he could. Yeah, just became this just incredible event whenever Ronnie came to state his house is like, oh, man, get the barbecue tanks ready to go. There we go. Yeah. So he said he'd eat like two 12 ounce stakes at a meal like no problem. Just no kidding. Every meal. He'd eat two 12 ounce stakes. All his all his carbs just shoveling food, not win a single thing. Nothing getting weighed like just eat eat eat. Yeah, buddy. Yeah, buddy. All right. Two more real quick. Jim Mcdonald also from Patreon. He says, um, is there anything worse than when you've worked so hard and you were so disciplined that you earn a cheat meal and then the meal that you choose ends up sucking? Very few things on the entire world that are worse. Yeah, including wars, death. I mean, I say the only worse would be like a sick puppy other than that. Nothing. It's funny. This is pretty bad. Fast food to me. Fast food is one of the other every time. And there's like a little gamble on it. You know, so everyone's in a while. I'm like, you know what? I think I'm going to get a burger at a drive through. I don't do it very often at all. And sometimes you get it and you're like, oh, so delicious. You know, and then other times you get it and you're halfway through it and you're like, this was a terrible idea. And what you're grating your life. I should have gone to like, you know, I should have gone to that normal draw that pickup spot and got some teriyaki beef and rice. Why the hell did I do this? Like, and it's just not nearly as good as you were hoping. So yeah, it's that little risk. I did a, Ron, you'll love this. But I had like a flashback conversation about Burger King back in the day. And it used to be like phenomenal. And then I went back years later and it was garbage. I mean, I really did garbage. Yeah. And so we're going to have. But I got this like, wow, the hair that I was going to go to Burger King. So I went to the one down the road here and it was closed. And the worst part was I go to the size is, sorry, we're closed. No D. I was like, you're running out of ink. Close. So now I'm irritated. Still has like whatever next. And stubborn. I tell Nikki, I go back. It's closed again. I'm like, uh, bird, bird must still suck. Yeah. So finally, I'm going to Burger King and Taylor goes, there's one on Pelham. Go to that one. Oh. So I go to that one. I bring it home. And it was everything I remembered from years ago. It was worth the struggle I went through. Really? I literally took a bite of a wap or I was like, I don't know if it was the struggle that made it so good. Or if it was actually that good. But it was. So anybody who's listening, again, if you're a Burger King sucks, that's on you. But the one on Pelham, the one with the homeless lady in the front, that one's good. I've been there once. I know this. You know what I have in Burger King in years. You're like, I'm talking to years. And I love them. Were their French toastings. Those things are really good. Oh, for God. They've got to be good. Yeah. They got a nice, like, McFlurry generic thing there. There's only two flavors. But Taylor accompanied me on this trip to the Palo one. And she got one. And I was like, oh, that thing fox for sure. It was amazing looking. So for those who are there picking up their water that they might be disappointed in, you'll be fine with the dessert. Yes. I still haven't gone to Chick-fil-A, by the way. I haven't had the opportunity. But I'm not going to let the line detour me when that opportunity does. There are efficient and get the cookies. Remember the cookies. Oh, yeah. Oh, I'm getting the house. Somebody mentioned that Costco cookies are real good. I'll probably be trying those sooner than the Chick-fil-A sandwich. We're there. There more. I'm going to mix them. Yeah. By the way, the book you're travel through Costco for anybody who's watching this show. Yeah. Yeah. So you know, we do the Dominican deal. So we decided to go back. And we're like, oh, let's do the same thing. It was awesome. Okay. And Nikki tells her, uh, PT this. She's like, oh, yeah. We're going to go back to the Dominican. She goes, oh, did you book yet? And she said, no. But we just looked it up. And it's going to be just under eight grand for the week. Everything flights the whole thing. I'll book it through Costco. It's a quiet way cheaper. $5,600. Really? Everything for the same deal. I was like, they felt free all of a sudden. So kind. Thank you, grand. Literally saved just by ordering it through them. Wow. Yeah. So there you go. Everybody in Costco, you're welcome. You owe me again. I heard there's something. There's something gold now. What was under eight thousand. You can buy gold from Costco, too. Well, you could do that if you're not smart enough to buy Bitcoin. Um, you don't, you don't, you don't want to see it all in Bitcoin. You don't, I mean, you, it's for the, uh, the money that you want to keep. The money that you want to keep. You know, you know, I'm not going all in. Heads that US dollar. Heads that US dollar. Hundreds of weeks for years. That's the magic. Yeah. Okay. All right. We. We do have more, but we could, I think this is a good place that we can. We can't make Donald's in travel. It's perfect. Really working. I'm, I might have some KFC today because it was talk. Oh. I've been driving. I was impressed when he went. Yeah. Saw that. So I changed. First time in 50 years. You never had to see us. Really. Yeah. I like those tenders. So it's like original recipe tenders. Those are amazing. So I'm going to get the hot sauce. Get the hot sauce. Trust me. It's good to put the right on them. Yes. I'll think of it. It's not white. It's red. No, no, I know. But how hot. You know, is it like, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no. No, it's not like Canadian cold. It's a mild thing. Okay. We did get multiple comments like this one. Run. Subway. Isn't that a sandwich? Run, say, eight subway every day for a lock. All these other things. Let's nobody put on it. Chicken. It's red. Is there anything else that was on your sandwich? It was a good blood. Cheese. Yeah. The hatred of sandwiches is in like letting other people decide what's on it. Like, I'm wondering, a sandwich at a restaurant. Like, I'll just get like, people just go, uh, give me the club. And then they just keep talking. Yeah. And I'm like, no, no, don't you have questions. So you want to know exactly what's on it? Like, what's on that club? Yeah. Look, yeah, that's a good club. I don't know what they put on it. See, some people thought maybe you burnt yourself out for me. No, no. I didn't have somebody for a while. Yeah, I had to go a little break. There was a whole debate in the comments on YouTube. It went sideways. Run in a lot of sandwiches. It turns out he's been lying to us for all these years. Oh, no. He was holding the sandwich is for himself. He burned myself out. Yeah. Okay. Well, because they gave money this year to get Ron a new internet. We think we need to be the internet. It's been awful. It's been awful. The whole show. It's been awful. My image is awful. It's awful. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. I look at it. It looks like I'm watching TV in a 90s or the 80s. You could have sent a little message. I thought it was all right. Well, they cleared up. And then, so I was going to. I was going to say, like, hey, let's reconnect. But then it cleared up. And then it, but then it went back to awful again. I was going to awful myself because I was like, you know what? This is my moment to be better looking than Ron. You're on the shine. Yeah. That's it. It's coming back. It goes my moments already ending. Looks fine to me. It's looking better. It's looking better. It's OK. Yes. OK. Well, remember like share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. I'll even hit it. Jeez. There you go. Remember I'm using dot com dusty 20 big Ron 20. Get your ice to search, get your all in and everyone get on the gear. Patreon. Big, big body building. Thank you guys. Super producer, home. Thanks for everything. Thanks for your questions. Patreon questions. YouTube questions. I'm going to go on the YouTube today and I comment a little bit more and you know answer some of the stuff that's on there because that branch got got the branch video got quite a bit of comments on it. So I'll look at that one today. OK, guys. Look forward to the next one. What's the deal? You're going to be traveling or something coming up here? What's going on? Yeah. So, I've got, yeah. I've got it on Sunday. I'll leave for Europe again. So I'm going to England for a couple days. Shooting an episode of Newton on a mission at the shed with always nice. And he's going to be five days out because he's leaving the next day for Detroit. So, so he's actually going to, he's like, no, no, we'll do the episode because I got a train. Why not? Yeah. So we're going to do the episode. J.P. said he's going to stop buying do like a bit with me or something like that. Like he's going to be in it. I'm not going to train. I don't think. And then flying to Frankfurt and I've got a gym lined up there. And then I've got a German gym owned by David Hoffman. Anyone knows David Hoffman from Germany. He's a pro. Yeah. People remember him from the Universal ads. He was like in those old Universal ads. And 20 that in the day. Yeah. David Hoffman's got a gym now in coblins. So I'm going to go there and train with David and, and then film an episode of Newton on a mission. And then head up to Cologne for the weekend. All right. So, so, is does that mean? How long are we off then? Well, I'm gone Sunday to the following Monday night. Okay. So we could do a Monday. I'll bring in a, uh, a side guest here. Okay. We'll just say a side guest. I can't say that anymore. No. No. It's been shown. Yeah. We'll bring it in. Yeah. That sounds good. We'll figure something out then. So we'll be here Monday without Ron. And then we'll figure something out for the next week. If you're free, maybe a live or something, the following week or something like that. Oh, so you guys are both going to be back for that. Okay. Okay. I want to see what I was doing. I was letting the people know I had to do. I don't know. Yeah. Okay. Sounds good, guys. Remember everybody is just bodybuilding.

One is willing to work until they just collapse. The other one's like, I don't know if it takes that. And that's certainly bad or just different. And then you have on that same side, the generation that is recovering better, they're not as beat up. The only thing he understands is if I keep working harder, I'm going to keep getting better. And I'll tell you what, I would put my money on him, be in a better bodybuilder than five to ten years. And someone who is whole we're analyzing. You see lines in them from the side there, and that hamstring looks nutty. That side shot is pretty impressive. And a lot of experience with EQ. I think that's probably the three guys they'll kill. We're not gonna kill you. We're not gonna kill you. What's going on guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with Coach's Skip Hill. Andrew Barry myself, Scott McNally, and we are brought to you by TrueNutrition.com. Use our code, think over there for all your basic bodybuilding supplements. Like, intro workout. You can get some pre workout. You get some post workout, protein. Get the team skip blend. Use our code, think for additional savings. We're brought to you by supplementsource.ca for Canadians. They've got great deals that change week to week on short dated, label change products, stuff like that. Of course, we're brought to you by Patreon. I've got a couple of Patreon questions. We might even have a physique critique. If this guy gets some scent over to me by the end of the show. If not, he'll be in for next time. And yeah, guys, we've got a bunch of stuff. And we've got a fun topic. We're gonna talk about regarding training to failure. Like, do we need it, really? But before we get into that, and I think we're gonna try to get into like some real take home tips for you that you can apply to your training today. But before we get into that, Andrew, we have a freaking like late entry here to the Olympia this Bay Roost. I don't really know him. To Bonnie Bay Roost to Bonnie? I believe that's hype right now. So yeah, we just got worried about five hours ago that his visa cleared. He's coming over from my ran. And he's going to be competing in the 2225 Olympia. Now, the problem is, is this guy has not been able to get on the Olympia stage. Though he's qualified numerous times. And everyone's always said, man, once he qualifies and is able to compete, he's gonna shake up the lineup. And I really do think he is gonna shake up this lineup. Because, I mean, he's got everything. He's got big arms, he's got flowing quads, he's got a very small waist. My dad, the smallest waist out of all the guys in the Olympia this year that we're considering for top 10. I don't see him finishing outside of the top six. You know, why? And I would have said that last year. I would have said that after I saw him win the Dubai, he'd be a good William Bonic. And that's where he qualified. That's where he qualified. Yeah. And he's been qualified for several years in a row. It's just he can't get that visa. And he finally got the visa, I guess earlier today. I mean, look how big his delts are in that most muscular. Like, to me, that's like a throwback like Kevin the Veroni type. Most muscular wear, the waist is still really small. Brown, bowling ball delts, great set of arms. So who knows if this is very complete? He's very complete, isn't he? He's very complete. I don't know if this, you know, I assume he was preparing every single day as if he was going to get the visa. I hope he was. So we get to see the best because I think we already see all the athletes that we've been talking about, you know, the Nick, Derek, the Samson's, the Hotties. We did a preview show a couple weeks ago. They seem to all be coming in to their best. Yeah, I really feel that this year's Olympia. We are going to see every athlete close to or at their best that they've ever been. You know, and we're talking guys into the 10th, 11th, 12th, Placings to. So yeah, I'm excited. Where do I see him finish? It's so hard to say, you know, in no particular order, I would have my top six being Nick Bay Rouge, Derek, Samson, Hottie, gunned in my head, Andrew or Martin, it's hard to say, you know, Yeah, I'm going to probably forget someone else is really good too. Any back shots from this or no? I might get put one together real quick. I just want to now, if the risk of. Stereotyping. Or pro maybe it's pro filing maybe it's that stereotype, but. Everybody's waiting for skip to say something really really off. Yeah, exactly. You know, I'm hesitating because I'm talking slower than I normally do. Normally I'm a mile a minute. Am I the only one who sees kind of a. Hottie, ask. I know he's from my ran to that's where I'm going to get in trouble. I don't but that front most much smaller ways. Yeah, I don't know about height or anything else. I can't tell height when I. I think he's about five ten. So okay, on the taller side. Yeah, for for a bodybuilding. I just I see it in the front. Again, you know, arguably a better. Yeah, maybe about different midsection. Yeah, but I see, but I don't know that I'm not seeing it. Some consciously knowing he's from my ran. He's got the you know, darker hair, darker complexion, you know, darker features, that sort of thing. Okay, here we go. Here's the back shot. Now, I wouldn't say that his back is absolutely blowing me away. But I'm not going to say that it's bad either. You know what I'm saying? Like he's he's got muscle there. I don't know if I. I'm actually interested to see how he stacks up. This is not the best back shot I've ever seen of him. So I think if you if you see him really open up the lats, it's it's it's it's a sight to behold. Um, yeah, I just sent you another shot too that I think, Um, his side shot. Like like he's not balancing his back shot. You know, one arm's a little higher than you. There he's a little off balance. The only thing I think that's weird about this shot is what he does with his glutes. And you'll notice if you watch him on stage, some of the videos. He kind of flexes on with any talksome and then he unflexes them again. I wish you could just pick one and stick with it. Um, but he's got massive mass. Massive, massive boots, but I'll put up that side. Yeah, he really does, man. You're the does. And you see lines in them from the side there. And that hamstring looks nutty. That side shot is pretty impressive. Yeah, he's got some of the wacky hamstrings. This does again, this video doesn't really show it from the glute to the hamstring to the knees. Are usually really striated like that. So the the detail level is on another level, not to plan words. Yeah, what are glutes in your hamstrings? Arguably take up slightly more than 50% of the size from the side. That's that says something. Well, it could say you have weak quads, which normally does like it if it were me. But when you see that, it's that's just that's a crazy. Wow. Yeah, that's pretty. And I don't think what you were saying in a minute, it goes, Get, I don't think it's like a racist thing or whatever to say. No, but someone can finish that way. That's more or what I don't mean it. It's intent versus perception. And let's just say that when the, like the industry knows this, when the Iranian bodybuilders don't do very well, they lose their shit. Yeah. You know, there is that. There's a, there's a little bit of a different mentality. At least in the outspoken Iranian fans versus, you know, anybody else. In case some point last year, Samson, nobody in the US burned anything, broken anything down or had anything real negative to say about it. They said, okay, everyone was at their best on that day, directly. And the judges thought Samson won. I think people could have argued, said, well, no, I like Derek or like, hotty because of this, but nobody was like, someone got robbed or they completely screw or someone's getting paid for this, for this, you know, judging, you know, there's no background dealing or anything like that. It was, you could, you could buy the reasoning they gave it to Samson. You know, I don't want to, you know, you're not going to get out of a whole heap. Let me just point, let me ask you guys this question because I think it's important in the viewers probably relate. Does the body building industry freak out the, the troll sector and everything else? If Nick wins. I think it's possible only because he hasn't been there. I think a lot of people are behind him more than you think that's a lot more than ever. Yeah, more than ever. I completely agree with you. Yeah, he's been pulling fans back into his camp, you know, since this, this, this is like a little bit. There's been a lot of holes going out on people's Instagram stories. People that are good retired former bodybuilders like Ianville there and Antoine Valleant who's not retired, but, you know, not competing right now. And I've been kind of keeping eye on him and overwhelmingly, and when I say overwhelmingly, I mean, the number of times these poles are showing Nick being the winner, pretty high. Like 42% of the fans are saying Nick's going to win. And then the next would be like say Sam's in at 31% and it trickles down from there. And, you know, there's a lot to be said about that that I think that says he's kind of the people's camp right now, you know, maybe five years ago or four years ago, the attitude would have shifted a little bit. It would have been, I want to see someone else win without judging the actual physique. But I do think, as you pointed out, Scott, I think the fans are behind him. They want to see him. They've kind of fallen in love with this personality. And what he shared through his Instagram and social media, they relate to him. And, yeah, I'm not the judge. You can very humanize too. You know what I mean? Like just just we saw him really at his worst, you know. And, and, you know, whether you loved him or hated him at the time, it's like we've seen him turn that around. It's hard not to love, you know, the underdog, the comeback story. I really do. And I've thought this man since since he turned things around that he already is going to be the people's champ, but there no matter what happens. Now, I don't know how it works. If you win the show, can you still be voted people's champ? You know what I mean? Like I don't know if that is that work out that way. I think so because, well, okay, Arnold won what five years in a row. And I feel like he was also still the people's champ because, yeah, good looking guy from California, just, you know, I feel like he was charismatic and he'd already done a little bit of acting. So he had some name recognition. So I do think he was kind of already the people's champ going into those Olympia wins. And then he wins. Well, Blumstead. I mean, that's great. Yeah. Blumstead was already a people's champ in a sense. Yeah. Because I mean, also, I was kind of thinking about the actual, because they give that prize away on stage. Yeah. They can actually do. Yeah. And then they would they actually be able to, you know, because it's usually someone else like branch war and get to it or, you know, somebody else who was like third, they come in peel, but they just don't have the, the tools that it takes, you know. Yeah. When I'm thinking of people's champ, I'm not thinking of like some silly award the producers or whatever, the promoters, the show are putting together based off of, well, they put it together, but then they, they let you vote. You text in and they take those numbers by the end of the night. So it's, I guess it's really still up to the people, but it always just seems like the people's champ ends up being somebody other than the guy who wants, you know. Yeah. So then there's not tell you. Yeah. It's great. You know, I was going to go the other way. I was going to say that the people in the industry choose their person, not necessarily based on the same criteria that the judging panel does. I mean, we have our favorites. It's relatable. Does he have a structure like me? Do I want to look like him? I know I've said for years, you know, even when getting along and feeling like I were friends, his physique or the Chi's physique was more appealing to me. If God came down and said, you have to pick, you have to walk around the rest of your life. Look like one of the other. I'd be like, oh, walk around. Look at that guy. I already got the tan. I'm not sure if I'm going to look like that. But that's that his physique was more appealing to me. The thicker lats, the arguably, you know, better shoulder to waste ratio. Again, arguably, but I couldn't deny the fact that, okay, I fell. He'll have the better for the guy. I wasn't losing a sleepover the fact that he was beating Chi. Did Chi ever beat him? I don't even know. I don't think he did. I don't think he did. No. No. No. All right. Well, listen, we got a bunch of stuff. And we had a fun topic that I'm excited to get into. I'm going to ask you, what did you, what did you, how did you turn this before the show? You were like the, the old generation versus the new generation. Yeah, which generation is right, which one is smarter? Yeah. Oh, what did you say? It really, but right, but I mean, I'm sitting on the fence. I'm sitting in the fence looking at both sides now. Okay. Because I'm sitting on the fence and I'm looking at the old head side. My generation. And I see, you know, work ethic, went in doubt. Do more, whether it's training cardio, volume, diet, and gear. You name it. Then I look over on the other side of the fence, the new generation. And I see moderation. And I don't want to say that they don't have a work ethic. On the same is, if you compare the two, one is willing to work until they just collapse. And the other one's like, I don't know if it takes that. And that's certainly bad or just different. And then you have on that same side. The generation that is recovering better. They're not as beat up. They don't have that what I call old manitis issues, which, you know, any type of tendonitis is an over. They're also 20 years younger. Good point. Sure. And that factors, that's why this makes this so complicated and nuanced. So then I'm sitting on the fence and I'm going, okay, this is how I train. This is how you're supposed to train your supposed to train her. I don't know. Are we progressing the old heads and it obviously time plays into this too. But did we progress at the same rate when we were younger with the same mentality versus the reps in reserve? Are you really not training to failure? Yeah, that sort of thing. So I'm looking at both sides. I'm going, I find myself within the last year. So paying more attention to the side, the newer generation. Because I'm thinking, oh man, I shouldn't dismiss this so quickly, maybe they're on to something. And I've got my own reasons where I'm starting to see it and I'm starting to gravitate toward that side. The problem is it takes a serious rewiring. Like it's like, if I'm an electrician, I've had to go into my brain and essentially renovate this entire high rise by stripping out all the old wiring and bringing new everything we're doing again. Because we condition ourselves and program ourselves a certain way for so long that it is hard. It is hard to break that. And then you have the old school side that not only are you wired that way for so long, but you build a tolerance to not necessarily paying. But to the intensity where, you know, my level of 10 on an intensity scale wouldn't have. It evolves over time. So we almost become desensitized to it, I think, training to failure. Oh yeah, you're definitely, you get what I said. Now is different than it was 15 years ago, you know, and I think that works to your advantage. You know, we're talking a lot to Scott Stevenson on the topic and and you do hear more and more people saying it now, you know, three, three plus years ago, if we were talking about reps and reserve all of us in the old school. Like, ask her that idea, you know what I mean? Yeah, we're like, you know, there's no sense. You got to learn how you got to take it to failure. And I think that what we were getting it is you have to learn to take it to failure. And that that's something you have to keep read to finding. We had a hunter on one of the podcasts a couple of few weeks ago, and he said, listen, if you're capable of pushing it hard, then you need to do that as long as you can. You got like, years, seven years of like just going hard to extreme felt it's going to take that so that you can even can understand what a rep and reserve is, you know. Agreed. But then I even go so far as to say, is there the potential for more growth, not training to failure. And I'm going to give you an example. The one thing that has stood out since my show and understand this is only 10, 12 weeks. We have the post show rebound. We got calories going up, but I'm TRT and I have to based on the comments. TRT or TRT plot. Well, you're TRT. It's TRT. It's TRT and a 250 milligrams of testosterone. It's TRT. It's not plus. I can't see what I have seen. What I've seen and this is what surprised me because my hamstrings are not a main focus to me. Okay. It's not like something I'm going to go in and I'm going to pound and go, man, I just, I don't have any hamstrings. What I have found is since I have laid back and we're talking years here. I sometimes look at the stack when I do leg curls like, oh, you know what? That is nine year old weight. Why? And then I go, I'm like, okay, I'm going to go a little bit heavier today. I'm going to go harder, whatever. And I still end up failing right around that 10 rep mark. I can't go any heavier. It feels like my hamstrings are going to rip off. So since the show I have pulled back and I'm not trying to failure. And literally, I'm hitting numbers on a leg, I know it's a leg curl, but it's still a good example because it's not a primary focus of mine to bring this area up. All I'm doing is sets a 10 and I just work up. Once I hit 10 and I'm barely getting 10, I stopped there. I might even fall back for one. I'm done. My poundages are going better than any other exit and everything else is going up to, obviously, post show. But it's going up so dramatically that I haven't done these numbers on leg curls for 15 years probably. Really? So that's, again, then you, your brain makes a note or should, damn. What if I do this for clouds? Like why would this be any different? Even though different muscle groups can be, you know, sometimes we'll need to be trained differently. Some more intensity than others. But it's enough that it's got my brain, you know, I'm thinking. And I'm following this as much as I can with any of these other even pulling back to chest of all the muscle groups that the viewers would have a heart attack. Of all the muscle groups that the viewers would have a hard time pulling back with. Competitor and acup, it's going to be chest. If you, if you train one muscle group, the heart is, it's usually chest. Failure is pretty black and white. You either get it or you don't back. Not as much. Might be a little less range. Motion. You're not pulling back as far. Yeah. You can, you know, you can, you can count two or three reps that might not be full things like that. But with chest, you can't do that. So pulling back on chest, it has done the same thing. I don't have the shoulder issues. I don't have any rotator cuff irritation. There's just a, there's a lot going on in the recovery. HRV sleep score. Yeah. General information. My knees aren't sore. And I had the knee injury before. And I'm talking about, you know, 55 real knees that you, they just ache. I get up off the couch and I do a couple of these and then I push off on my knees just not because I have to. But because it makes it less achy. Yeah. Things like that. So it's got me thinking. And I just think it's an important question because if I'm looking at this or reevaluating this. Other people should probably be doing the same thing. Yeah. What do you think, Andrew? I'm thinking about last night. I went to the gym and there was a guy probably 22, 23. And I watched him and he was doing squats and he did had to have an eight sets of 10 with the same weight. Okay. Barely on himself. Like busts in his ass. And I'm sitting there going, wow, that's amazing. And then what does he do? He puts the bar on the ground. And he does like six or eight sets of deadlifts. Which is where plates. Yeah. And what I'm going out with this is I think he probably doesn't have social media. He probably go YouTube. Only thinking understands is if I keep working harder, I'm going to keep getting better. And I'll tell you what, I would put my money on him being a better body builder in five to ten years. Then someone who is over analyzing reps and reserve and my working too hard and my stressing my system out too much. You guys get wrong going with that. I don't disagree with that. And that's why my brain is programmed the way it is. But when I see that progress, once you establish that level of intensity, then I just don't know. Well, here's my caveat though. Okay. Okay. He was 22, maybe 23, maybe 24, I'm just right. Yeah. I don't think of 35, a 40, 45 or older guy can do that same thing and expect that. Yeah. So our same guy. Let's say the same guy who's like four weeks out from his show. You know what I mean? That's where I'm going with that. It's time to place. And it's all about where you are in your life, I think. And so I think in some ways, and maybe we're a fault by being a podcast talking about body building, training, drugs, all that kind of stuff, are we overeducating people to the point to where they're forgetting about the number one factor and it's hard work. Because the guys in the sixties, the guys in the seventies, the guys in the eighties, internet wasn't even vetted and they somehow found a way to develop some amazing physics just by knowing by work a little bit harder. And they didn't need devices like HRVs and phones and fit minutes and stuff to tell them that they were busted up for the day. They woke up, they got out of bed and they said shit. I can't train today because it's what? It's what Scott Stevenson calls brain candy. You know, there's like, it's great to have that brain candy and that's like mainly what muscle mine is. Yeah, like we'll talk about like can and and said change your progress. Let's look at these studies and at the end of the day the answer is like just use common sense. You know what I mean? Yeah, that's that's what I'm trying to go with that is that let's let's apply more common sense. Let's let's rely less on the what ifs like yeah all this data's great. In my mind when I'm coaching people, I that makes up maybe 20% of the decision making in my process because at the end of the day, I know we probably need to keep working harder to get you into shape or to get you to that growth or to get you to that next summit of you were 197 pounds your last bodybuilding show two years from now you want to be 210. I don't think it's going to be devices. I don't think it's going to be saving all these reps. I don't think it's going to be calculating this and that I think it's at the end of the day. It's going to be work hard, sleep hard, rest when you need to and progressively. I still think it's maybe that's a little too old school. But I'll tell you what it's worked for the majority of bodybuilders that built the physique in all seriousness. Well, and I think that's why it's so convincing we've been around for a long time. We've seen more than this generation so far as far as experience. Maybe not the the ability to access information and experience, but our own experience we've seen. We've seen it with our clients that adds to it as well. 10, 20, 30 times, 40 times over. But I think what it also does is it and this is kind of where I sit right now. I'm trying to figure it out. Initially, in the 22 24 year old guy in the gym is a good example of this. You have to know where that threshold is. You have to you can't come into this endeavor into this sport and be holding back because you don't know what that threshold is. So the little to the threshold learn what intense because I still see there's intensity of effort and then there's intensity on the targeted muscle. And I think there are two different things. One has to be very targeted. The other one is just on the outside. It looks it's just effort. It's it's that visual thing. You don't always visually see a seasoned competitor or a seasoned bodybuilder. What that intensity is from outside. So you have to try to figure it out. It's internalized. It may not be. Why are you trying to keep the prime exam your pants? How many times have you taken a younger bodybuilder who wanted to train with you at the gym and you're like, I'm going to bust this kid up. And I know it's going to hurt me. I'm going to be dying on the inside. But I'm not even going to show him breaking his sweat. I'm not going to make a noise. I'm not going to. I'm going to make it look like this is just a wax workout for me. And he's going to walk away. No, and I got dominated today. I'll tell you something. I used to love doing that. And honestly, I think that progresses you as a bodybuilder as a middle of your career towards the end. That those are the workouts that you really really really push because you're like, well, I'm trying to show him what he should be doing to progress. I'm going to get to where I'm at. A lot of my workouts had been like that for a long time. Guys that I worked with, maybe I had even sometimes it was like two more years of experience than them, right? And I'm showing them stuff in the gym. So like you have to have the best, like you can't slack man. You've got to be the example. And when you're that guy dude, oh my gosh, it's, it's a lot of extra work in the gym. It really I think helped me for sure. Man, there's no question. I'm with you 100% on that. But I think finding that threshold. I think that's why that's important. Being able to because again, we become a descendant. If we get to the level of 10 and we stay at the level of 10, we become a descendant. We are essentially then the 10 becomes an 11. The 11 becomes a 12. So I guess what I'm trying to relate to people is my 10 or my 12. I'm pulling back to a 10 by taking it close to failure, but not necessarily to, or even further than that. Forst reps, things like that, rest pause. Now are those things effective? They're effective and can be very effective. Then if you are dramatically decreasing things like volume and or frequency. So again, it obviously it's very individualized. Some would argue, I'm 55. Is my recovery ability not what it was when I was 30? Of course. Of course it is. So for me then to pull back to what might be my 10 or my 9, maybe allowing that recovery because I mean, I have to explain why I have a sudden, I'm significantly stronger with these types of. And then there are other times where you pick up that same weight and it's, you get to rep number three and you don't think you're going to hit five and you end up banging in 12 of them and they're flawless. I mean, you could, you know, your reps could be graded on a full arm like hearts. Maybe like, oh man, it's versus I mean, three I can't do anymore. You know, I got four. I got five. That type of thing. So there's just, there's a lot of time right there. My point is this, this is an important question to ponder because again, it weighs out the recovery versus the work ethic in the actual effort. And I do think that everyone has a point whether they're seasoned or they're not, where you go past that ability to recover and it doesn't matter the working can do. We can always do more work. That's just a matter of sucking it up. Yeah. But are you recovering from it? So I'm benefiting by pulling back a little bit right now. But if you looked at my training, you wouldn't be like, ah, he's training like a pussy. Yeah. What's this thing, Andrew? You just sent me. So that's, if you throw it up on the screen, this is something me and John came up with for the Mount Dog Training programs years ago. And if you click on the links, which obviously our listeners can't, but if you ever bought one of John's programs, you can click on it and it gives you an example of what these sets look like from John doing over one of his clients doing them. But it's basically a rate of perceived exertion flow chart going from six all the way to 13. So a warm-up weight where you can get like 15 reps, 20 reps with that would be like a six, right? A reps and reserve set of where you could get two to three, maybe maybe two more reps. That's like an 85, 8.5. Okay. We put 10 as you went to failure with perfect form. Oh, this is a good. Yeah. So if you go to failure, perfect form that like if if someone like John or Scott Stevenson or Dave Tate was watching you, they would say that was a good set, that was perfect form. You stopped right at 10 reps or whatever. You did the reps exactly. Yeah. And then we came up with, you know, you went to failure with loose form. So I would say this is more of like to say the branch warrants dilatating, you know, because I definitely consider his form to be on the looser side, but no one can say he's not training well or hard because he's training like an animal, right? The form, there's just a little bit more body English there, right? Well, that even says after perfect reps completed, so that's like true. True. You nailed that 10, right? And then you got, I've got a little bit left in me, but I can't do it. It's almost like forced reps in a way. You know, it is, yeah. It's like, okay, you get done perfect set of curls, right? And then let's see, you get to that lemon threat and you're just doing a little bit of a little bit of body English to keep it moving, right? Yeah. Or like your rose, maybe now you're engaged in just a little bit of coerrotation to get a dumbbell to keep moving on a dumbbell row. And then like a 12 or a 13, a 12 would be like using a high intensity, you know, like let's say you did a set of 10 to failure and then you're adding in 10 partial reps out of the strength position or you did a set of 10, then you got a few more loose reps to a second set of or a second area of failure and then you added in a static hold or something of that nature. And then the 13 was reserved for very infrequently. It's like once in a while you're doing something that's just so crazy. Like let's say a, okay, here's a great example. This is when I love to do with people. You guys are familiar with the Bulgarian split squat, drop set of death, right? Yeah. Okay. So I like to take that idea and apply it to say the hacksquad or the leg press, right? So let's say you're starting with, I don't know, like four plates on a hacksquad and you're getting eight reps. Then you're going to drop it down to just below the, or just above the lowest position. You're going to have your partner push down on the side to add even more resistance as you push up as hard as you can. So you're in an eight second static hold, okay? Then they pull a plate. Eight more reps repeat the static hold. Pull one more plate, eight more reps static hold. And if you can still flex your legs, you're going to try to do it one more time, which is one plate. Again, with that static hold, that would be an Ape shit type set that's like, you can't do that every single week and expect to recover and progress. And you can't do multiple Apes shit sets every time you go to the gym throughout the course of week. Like you couldn't do the same thing for your chest the day later. You couldn't do the same thing for your back at day later. That's where you run into recovery issues. But that's also where the wisdom of training comes in. Like if you were to do something like that on legs, okay, maybe my next workout, like a like a threshold is workout is going to be a little bit more tame. I'm going to probably stick to that 10, maybe 11 in terms of the RPE, but I'm not going to do any crazy intensity, high intensity techniques that kind of stuff. Yeah, I think that's important. And as you mentioned, I think that it's something that we have to constantly negotiate, you know, it's like based off of where I'm at. It could even be, you know, I look at my own life and I asked myself, like, okay, you know, where was I with work today, you know, when I worked for the pop company, I like super busy days. And some days it was like, hey, I know that this isn't going to be the best day to push as absolutely hard as I can. Because of all the other physical stuff I already had to do, or my sleep wasn't good for whatever reason. I only got five hours last night. I always get whatever seven and a half. Today is probably not the day that I'm going to push to my absolute hardest. Or John, I know you're watching right now when you're five weeks out from a bodybuilding show. Yeah, I got to tell you, so this is a conversation that I had been having. And great guy. In fact, we did a physique critique of him. He was, he was the guy who, Andrew, you said, you know, he was already looking ahead. I think we are like eight weeks out. You know, really beautiful shape, you know, and he's going to do incredible thing is he has a very physical job. And we were talking this past weekend and he wanted to start cutting his training back and showing up less frequently to the gym because every, he's like, man, I'm just getting so wrecked. And we look at his training and the training is like everything to hard failure. Yeah. Every day. Well, we cut out the super sets like at the beginning of the prop, you know, but still, I mean, this dude, you know, his skip, you were talking about like the difference between like your 10, your new, your new 10 is now your old 12. You know what I mean? Like as you get, he's got some intensity. And I think just this year alone, he's redefined what intensity is. So he's still trying to push to that level and now we're only a few weeks out from the show and he's extremely lean. And he's moving like 50 pound hundred pound pipes all day long at work. So it's like, you got to, you got to redefine that stuff. And I think it's important that man, you know what it is with bodybuilding because this is something to guys that I had. I had, I've had to work really freaking hard at this. When I had gotten sick in 2021, I was at my all-time, strong, just ever. I was at my all-time, biggest ever. And that's the, there were a lot of things that worked for me. And although I had done all sorts of other things through bodybuilding that worked for me before, after getting sick, what did I think I needed to do to get a good workout? I thought I needed to do the exact same things I did as before I got sick. Because that's what had been working for me. And as smart as I am and as much as I can help other people, it really took it wasn't just the stepping back, but it's, it's the connection that we have to what we think we're supposed to do. Versus what we can actually, you know, benefit from, I think it's, it's always evolving. So just because what worked for you yesterday or last week or last year doesn't mean that that's the thing that's going to work for you today. You know, and I think that's the better we can get at recognizing that. The more we can have those really freaking hard days to failure and also be able to know when to pull back. It's a, it's a middle ground, right? Like it's both. I think the answer is both, you know. Agreed. And I think what it is, I think the reason that it's difficult to is because when you're doing the actual workout, you don't get to assess it right away. You have to wait to be able to assess it's not like why I just did this work. I just got paid for it. So now I can say you have to then go back and go okay, am I doing to say okay what I'm doing is working. I got to make sure that I continue exactly what I'm doing. There is that lag time between doing the work and being able to have the time to assess whether it's working or how well it's working. Or how well it's working. And it could take time to see even, you know, before you can really start to even catch on. Yeah. One thing I saw in the comments. Sorry to catch all. Yeah. I saw a podcast, first is from Gatano. I saw a podcast this afternoon about Phil Heath training and people says he never goes to failure. Same as Jay. But have you evaluate his connection with the muscle he totally understands that having a good amount of good reps and mechanical tension is better than taking a failure. That probably causes too much fatigue and information to recover from so it costs more than the earns. So one thing I want to say about Phil Heath is that I don't think he trained hard. I don't care. I don't care. You've seen it. I mean, I've seen a lot of videos and usually people turn it on for the videos. And I remember watching videos. Good point of half to three quarter reps squats and being like, this is what this guy does for his leg workouts. And my point is that obviously what he did worked. He became the best bodybuilder of a generation for eight to ten years, right? So I'm not shitting on that. He did what it took to develop the physique and who knows. If someone said, hey, you could do half reps and your physique would be better. What I do it probably, you know, no, I'm just saying, yeah. I just don't think he's a good example of a hard trainer is what I'm getting at. I don't care. He could have a hard training for a hard training because jaded full range of motion. J. Pomp Tard. He did a lot of all, you could physically see him working hard. He's I don't know. Or remember, Jay is the one who pulled Phil back. He pulled him aside when he was done by press and they'll like, bro, you, we know you can do the 170s. But if you're going to stay in this game for the long term, you need to be pressing 130s. And this doesn't make any sense. So then the argument is, well, the genetically gifted they can get away with that. But if you look back, it feels career as far as injury, it wasn't there. Yeah, he didn't have those major injuries and everybody else deals with it. Let me just add this story real quick. I'll be super fast about it. But back when we were recording the longevity DVD, is that our Embrace Pro, my wife did a lot of the filming, we were back in the leg room. We're doing something and I told Melissa, I said, don't get fill in the frame because I don't want to make it look like I'm riding his coat tails or trying to take advantage of that that's fill even though he was a friend of mine. That could have asked him, but I'm just like, I don't want to do that or be accused of it. So the camera comes out and all of a sudden we hear, and I notice it's fill and my brain is like, you don't ever, like he doesn't train like, and then it occurred to me, he knew that camera was on and it's the only reason he was doing it. It could just make me laugh because being alongside him all those years, this isn't a knock on him. Oh, that's crazy. I mean, dude, I mean, dude, you have to do it. I got other things to knock him about, but not it's not it's, it's, he was able to dominate from the first time he stepped on stage, you know, till he, all the way through. So there's nothing to take from him there. I would train the same way, I admit it. And it wasn't that he didn't train hard, don't, don't get me wrong. But if you put his level of intensity next to 95% of the people, you know, that want to get or, and will never get a pro card or even compete successfully at the national level, it's day and night. He never carried a water bottle. I would have conversations with him sometimes while he was in the middle of a back session where I'd be like, bro, I got to finish train, like, I got to, I love you, but I got to finish train. And he's probably in prep for the Olympia. You're like, dude, don't you need to get back to your set? It's just, it's just crazy. It's just crazy what some people can get away with. And then we look at, well, that's not fair. Well, they're not much in life as fair. Yeah. I would say Heath was a very pump and squeeze bodybuilder. No question versus a hard trainer. No, I'll just leave it that. Yeah. So to answer the guys question, was there more like, was he able to generate the intensity necessary? Of course he was. It's a no brainer. But at the same time, was he able to generate a level of intensity higher than the rest of us, maybe based on more muscle mass, maybe based on what he was set up that the contract out force was so strong and the response, it's a guess. It's really comes down to simple genetics. He was meant with a little bit of stimulus, the right drugs, the right food to look the way he did. And the rest of us were not. The rest was pretenders were forcing something that the body doesn't want. Right. And keep in mind, he also never used insulin or trend. So there's that. Yeah. And I go on record to saying, I don't know that he never used insulin. I know that first hand, that he did not use insulin when I was friends with him. And that was well into his matter of fact, he started using GH. Only like three or four shows into the to the being a pro. And then he jumped up quite a bit in one of those shows. He put on, I don't know, 16, 18 pounds of stage weight, something like a 15 pounds. And that was when he had gone to growth. I never knew him is taking insulin. But I also ended up moving. We had a fallout. And we weren't friends anymore. So I don't know what he did after that. That's just speaking for me. So I don't know if he did it after that or not. Studies show creatin doesn't just fuel your muscles, fuels your brain. Research links create into improved memory, focus, and mental clarity, especially while under stress. It helps reduce mental fatigue, supports learning, and may even protect long-term brain health. Later, my creatin from true nutrition, use code think it check out to get 10% off and support this podcast. Power your body and your mind with true nutrition creatin. By the way, this is my actual morning routine mixing 15 grams of creatin into my oats. No flavor, no texture. And hey, since I got married, we stored in this fancy jar so it doesn't look like my wife lives with a bro. But hey, if you're single, just leave it in the bag on the counter. It's totally fine. All right, let's get into some listener questions. We got a bunch of them. Guys, if you want to take part in the next show, then definitely comment below plus all your comments and likes, all that stuff. It helps to boost our programming up and we can use all the help that we can get. If you're new here, we'd love to have you along for all our shows. So hit the subscribe button, the bell, and all of that. Adrian asked us over on Patreon specifically for this show. It says should men and women train differently, rep ranges, rest periods, or is it the same stimulus equals growth? Thanks. I mean, anatomically very similar, or lonely, slightly different. I mean, if you read Lama Donald's book, I think it's called the Woman's Book, it's a pink book. He would say yes. But then again, I don't know him for putting out bikini figure wellness champions. I think he was writing a book based off some science. But now I don't think necessarily they should train different in terms of if we're talking rep ranges, intensity, range of motion. I don't think they should train different. Now it depends on the division, right? Because we got divisions that are very glue heavy. So yeah, obviously you're probably not hitting your upper body two to three days a week. You're hitting your glutes three to four days a week. You're doing very miniscule work in the upper body female bodybuilding. I would say it's very interchangeable with male bodybuilding programs. I don't think there's any difference. So I might even say they don't see a difference in the dose of some of the girls take. So, you know, I'm going to say, go ahead. I don't want to say. No, I'm just going to finish with like I just, I don't think that we need to program them differently from a sets and reps standpoint. No. I'll go back to the early 90s when I met my wife, small garage gym. I know the owner known him sometimes. He's a great guy. But he had different workouts for male and female and even at that time I asked, like, what do you do that for? Any laugh you go's because the women expect a different workout. They think they're going to wake up with man muscles. Oh, yeah. He said big fear. And I think that that plays into what had continued to feed that antiquated ideologies. When push comes to shove, the question is, a kid is saying, I think that when females do bicep curls, I think it hits their quads. Like, if they do a bicep curl, it's going to hit their bicep just like it's going to hit my or he'll horse. So the training itself, I don't see the rep ranges. I don't see the movements. There are arguments about like Danny Lamartina. Just on the show, recorded it last week, she made a good point that there are differences in hip structures. But she said there can be difference in hip structures with males too. So individualized, yes, but it's not, oh, you're a male. Oh, you're a female. It's, you know, whether it be torso-weight shoulder, you know, with, clavicle with whatever, you know, how long your leg bones are. I think of the funny girl in the, the, who's the heavy set girl that is in, she's super funny. And I can't rattle. I'm going to screw it up. But she said, I'll kick you in the face with my foot bone. And it was a viral clip from one of her movies. That sort of makes me think of the leg bones, the size, whether you are made to squat structurally at bit you, but that's not male female. That's just an individualized type of thing. So hormonally, yes, different division, yes. I think that's where it ends. Yeah. All right. I'm with you guys. I have nothing else to add. Glenn from Patreon says 44 here, Benign T or T in some a glue tied. And it never run a real cycle, starting my first cycle in October. 300 milligrams of test sip weekly for 10 weeks. Then planning on resuming T or T 100 milligrams of decka for joint health. So I'm guessing T or T. Oh, and 100 milligrams decka for joint health. Question is, for my first cycle at my age, should the focus be growth, re-comp or just learning how my body responds? And is this low dose test bridge a smart way to support joint's long term? I work as a delivery driver along with cardio and doing, going hard in the gym. Just looking to see if that gives my joints some relief long term thanks gang. When he says recomp, the first thing comes to mind is, are you fat or not? Right? I mean, we just showed a picture at the beginning of the show of Bayerus Tavini. There's no way he can recomp. He's already peeled. Right? Yeah. So there's nothing to recomp. So the recomp question would be based off your conditioning. Do you need to repartition drop body fat and hopefully gain some muscle in the process before? So basically diet before you start trying to gain. Right? So I would say, look at your conditioning. Are you happy with it? Are you not? Are you an insulin sensitive? Are you a physician to grow? I mean, that's probably the number one question. Yeah. Even if someone was insulin sensitive, but they're carrying, let's say a bunch of extra chub that they just don't need, my move would be, yeah, let's drop some first and let's get a cleaner slate to start with. So yeah, I'll let you guys tackle the PD part of it. The PD part is tough. First, I want to agree with everything you just said because you didn't encapsulate it and put it all together. It's a nice neat package. That's that's cool. Especially for someone who's as robust as I am. It's a skip. Just be getting started. Yeah. Exactly. Just get warmed up. As far as the PD is though, I don't like, and I wonder what you guys think. I don't like the idea of taking gear to maintain joint. What does that mean? Maintain joint, but I think a lot of people put the joint health with inflammation anditis. I'm a saner of manitis because I don't know how old he is. But 44. Your joints are, what is meant by that? I guess I don't really understand. So where to go with it? Go ahead, Andrew. If you have. I'm just trying to think about, I think what he's trying to say is to support joint integrity knowing that he's going to be lifting more poundages than he has in the past. And maybe he's had some tendonitis or some, we'll call it physical job. Yeah, and he's got some achy joints and stuff. So maybe just to feel a little bit better with trying to train a little harder. Gotcha. And I think that the gear in the cycle itself, I don't want to say no matter what it is. But is it not going to help to increase recovery? And then you may not have his, you may not be his achy things like that. So I don't know if the specific compounds matter whole lot coming back to TRT. And this is, I don't want this to make it sound like I'm dodging the, the answer, dodging the question by not giving a direct answer. But a lot of that is personal comfort level of whether to stand, whether to stand, TRT, whether to come off. That's a tough one that I prefer that the client, excuse me, the client has a lot more say in what they're doing versus coming to me as a trainer and as a trainer, I go, do this, do this, take this. I want to sleep well at night and I want the client to be 100% on board with what they're doing. So first question is, is he comfortable staying on and which he's already on TRT long term? Okay, so he is not, he's not so good. So that's done. His main thing was like he plans on resuming TRT and also with that adding in the 100 DACA for quote, joint health. Yeah, and that's I think that's what I, I don't want to take issue with, but yeah, I don't know that you're going to, I'll just say it. I don't think you're going to know the same thing. I don't know how to run a little grants a DACA whether it comes to joint health or not. I said it. Good, good. But I don't think this is going to be a deal maker deal breaker. Yeah, if you have your joint health issues. Like what is the root cause of that? So, you know, DACA is going to help with some level of inflammation, but what is causing that inflammation can't be changed that, you know? I, I'm sure you guys are with me. There's a point. I bet that there was a time like all three of us done this. I can speak for myself and say I did. Lake press is load that fucker up with as many places I can. Sometimes even like rat my knees and then get one rep lock out, you know what I'm saying? And then drop it back down. When I say drop it, just like let it back down, you know what I mean? It probably wasn't that ugly. But you get my point of, we lock out hard between these really heavy reps. If you were to take two plates off each side and not do those hard lockouts, then you're not going to deal with that same level of like pressure, you're not going to stack your joints. Try to, I, that would be my first thought is I would look at what you're doing in your training that is causing joint issues. Look at your work situation and what's potentially causing joint issues there. I think there's going to be overlap with a physical job like getting firm, tendonitis if you're using your hands a lot. If he's got a stock things and his work truck, you know? What can you do to improve that versus just going straight to something that's going to be an anti-inflammatory? It may work, but it's not what I would say I'd want to like live day and day out on. As far as the cycle goes, I think he's good to go 300 milligrams of tests. It's a my, I would consider that to be a mild cycle. If his TRT is like say 150 milligrams per week, and he wants to just kind of dip his toes in, get some additional benefits, you're going to be able to grow muscle on that. Even in my thought too, I'm with you Andrew on the dieting side of things, like what's this composition? Like does he need to lose fat? And I would say don't be afraid to try to do both things at once. Like keep the protein high, you know? But then adjust the carbs and the fats as needed to get the fat loss off. And that in that process, if he's not overly, it's just for cycle. So he's probably not a massive guy. He probably can continue to like recomp and grow as he's losing fat. But make fat loss the priority if that's what needs to be, you know? Yeah, one more thing too. So why not add the 100 milligrams of deca in when he's starting his 300 milligrams test of testosterone and then just cycle back the testosterone at some point. And maybe cycle back the deca as well. All right. If he's after like joint integrity and growth and fat loss and all the above, you know? I guess what is his TRT? Is it like 125 test a week or something like that? Is he on the TRT right now? Yeah. So something around 125 makes a week. I guess what I'm saying is I don't think it's going to be a, oh wow. When he bumps the 300 of testosterone, I think he's going to get a little bit more results. I think he's going to feel a little bit better. His test is obviously going to go up. But I don't think it's going to be like, oh wow. This is what the guys are talking about. You know what I'm saying? Like, yeah, he could. So could I guess the question is, could he do more? You're saying yes. You're going to agree with you on that. Yeah. I think that's what I mean. I mean, I think he was, when we were talking about, I thought it was just, he was asking questions just specifically gear related. So when you went to training, I'm like, well, how yeah, that's, you know, you're going the training route. I'm like, how much of misunderstood I really thought he was asking specifically only about you. Yeah. That's what I'm like. I think he needs a coach. I think he wants a coach. I wouldn't hurt him. Yeah. Let me ask you guys this just gives kind of a secondary question. So, you know, we see a lot of talk about what a low dose or what an early cycle would be. And I do think that you can get a good cycle out of 300. And the better you are with your training, everything else, the better you're going to do. That said, are you going to get more out of 500? Absolutely. And I wouldn't have a problem with that either. So let me ask you this cost to benefit on 300 versus cost to benefit on 400 or 500 test. I mean, health markers, you guys tell me, I like I feel like you're, you're not going to mess yourself up. It's not like we're going to the point where like now you have a bunch more complications, right? Yeah, you're not jumping to Dallas, my car, or lab work by going from 300 to 500 makes a test, you know? What can you expect over say 15, 20 weeks of a cycle like that? Yeah, your each deal is going to come down a little bit. You know, your LDL is probably going to pop up a little bit. But how much more, though, you know what I'm saying? It's like, I, for me, I feel like it's not that big of a difference between three of a sudden. Under most, you know, majority of people probably wouldn't be a different especially as younger. We know that those blood markers typically get worse as you get older. So there's that. Yeah, but if he's doing, you know, let's just say he's adding cardio vascular work in. He's taking a few more health supplements. He's cleaning up his diet because he mentioned the re-comp. I think there's a lot of value in that with offsetting the negatives that you're doing with maybe a typical American diet or even a guy that casually goes to the gym. But then stops and eats, you know, a fast food type restaurant. I'm not even talking about like McDonald's. I'm just talking like even a Chipotle, which are some of these other restaurants, which do use more seed oils and stuff like that in their products, prevalent, uh, putting you on the side of inflammation, hurting your cholesterol a little bit more. Yeah, I mean, I think dive into the bodybuilding lifestyle. Don't be afraid to increase your dose as a little bit. Yeah, all the better. Yeah, did I tell you my results Andrew on the, um, the calcium score? You did that. You did last time. Okay. Yeah, I got a zero, zero, zero, 10.5, zero. So for a guy that smoked as a teenager into my homoines for a guy that had, you know, I'm in recovery. I lived a rough early life and then ran gear. I mean, I, you mentioned the term at one point, you're like, I really think that diet has a big role in these health markers. I mean, in our health and I think that that shows, man, because I have had a really good diet, you know. Well, here's the example because I would always do my labs like a week out from a show, expecting especially the first time I did it, expecting the absolute worst situation and where they great. No, they weren't perfect. But they were not nearly as bad as they would have been if I was in the offseason. High calories, a lot more shit food will say just in terms of the calories and less cardio. My labs have been a lot worse in that situation. When I did, I, so what I'm saying is I think there is a, well, I know there is there's a health improvement effect of cardiovascular, clean, calorie restriction supplements when you're taking high levels of PDs. I'll say, I know like an equalizer, but I'm saying it. Lessons the damage. Yeah. I know when I do curl sometimes my elbows both of them don't crunch. That's not right, but then I'm like, probably just the level of calcium in my eyes. This is kind of, I could tell I work it out. You know, then it's moved. You know what would be interesting? I asked your doctor, you know, the cardiologist Scott, because you stopped smoking what? 20, something years ago? Yeah, it's been some time now. Yeah, I guess I would want to know in his experience or maybe we should talk to a cardiologist. If someone smoked for it's a five years and they're 20 to 25s and then they quit and then now they're 45, what impact did that five years of smoking have if any on their current calcium score or their own period health? Like is there any? I wonder, and I wonder what would my calcium score have looked like in 2017 when I finished my last contest prep? You know what I mean? Is there any difference? I don't know. You know, I'll try to get again in a year, though. I'll see you. I'll see you again in a year and see just to see because I'm implementing all the supplements Dante suggested and be curious if I get it lower. What do you guys think of this one? Question can EQ contribute to Gino. I'm sensitive to the Gino when it comes to a lot of compounds, but I do just find with testosterone alone up to 350 milligrams per week. I have not gone higher than that without an AI. I would like to push to 750 test and 400 EQ. I do know that know that EQ lowers my E2 some. What do you guys think? I know on paper EQ should not cause Gino, but you guys have much experience. I have a lot of experience with EQ. I think it's not really. I think it's not really. I think it's not a lot of EQ. Here's the thing, I mean EQ, it's not going to contribute estrogenically to Gino, right? Could it influence progesterone pathway? Possibly. We have seen some research with that, but it's not going to be estrogen related. I would get a full panel done. I would look at progesterone, I would look at pro-lactin, I would look at the effect of EQ on those hormones, not just estrogen. I would say that it's far less likely than it is. That compound is going to cause any issues. Could it? It always could. It's not like. Would it be the testosterone you're taking? Sure. Maybe that me and your EQ dose, I don't want to say this the wrong way, is it high enough to counteract? Yeah, what I'm saying, maybe that's it. I always think can balance some out of it more if you're concerned. That's where I'm going with it. Yeah. Up, you know, set a 750 test 400 EQ, what about like 5 and 5 or 5 and 6? 6 and 6? Yeah, or 6 and 6? Yeah, I'd be down with that. I rarely seen somebody with a 1-1 ratio of testing EQ come back with high estrogen levels. I've seen 10, 10, 10, I'm going to say 9, 9, 10. It'll be on the lower side on a 1-1 ratio. Maybe 1 out of every 30, I might see someone with slight and when I say hi, I mean, slightly at a range, not like 100 or 200, you know, slightly at a range. Yeah, I never figured that out when I was using a lot of EQ because I always ran my test significantly higher, you know, I don't know about you guys. I have a client who just increased his estrogen levels up to 4. I thought that was pretty good. Yeah, I thought that was from 1, 0, 0, 0. How? I figured what we're going in the right, I'd have to dig into it. What's using for tri-ice? What's that? Was it using a-ice? No. I know, okay. So there's a lot of rubber diities. There's a lot of overditing prior to him coming to me. Great dude. Bella Herologist. He definitely outplayed me on the timepiece game. We were going back and forth weekly. We'd show each other a different watch every week and then I ran out because I don't watch it. You ran on a watch. I don't have four that lasted four weeks and he put up a 78 Daytona that just I was like, damn dude, it's a good watch. I take it on. Oh, yeah. Yeah. It was a process of 6, 2, 2, 3, I think. But it's, you know, because they have so many different, it's, I can't even keep track of the Rolex market. And what means what I have to look among. But anyway, the point is, he's improving. But I think that is related more to do with chronic dieting because as we fill them out, he's just, he's looking better and better in this guy's ripping through calories. But the point is is that the diet can play into those things too to some degree that it's certainly not the compounds he's on right now because we're trying to, we're literally trying to find a way increase the pressure, which is always fun because they're always to increase the estrus. So when you're a number of watches is higher than your number of estrus. Then you're as good. Yeah. Yeah. That's pretty good. I throw a little minton like five months. That's what we're doing. Okay. Couple. Couple months, we even some cases like five milligrams a day for some people. And that typically they love how they feel with it. And you know what brought it up from two to four? Be ball. Okay. Okay. How much would you more than that? How much? Oh, I was like two to four, bro. I'd have to check. It's not anything terribly grigious. I want to say it's like 25, 25, 25 a day. Something like that. If you're doing it, it's a demolice. Something like that. No, the no-to-vastrogen control Jared asked us on average. How much do you see? Dam in calcium, deglucrate, lower E2 from your coaching experience. Thanks. Love the show. Oh, moderate moderate, very moderate amount. Like I would say it works like 10 percent as good as well as a AI maybe. And I can't comment because while you were asking reading the question, I was trying to run down in my brain the compounds that he's using and I can't. It's okay. If you don't use these supplements anyway. So you get over here and you know, 80 of these doesn't work. I've seen calcium deglucrate have a more powerful effect. I think that a lot of that too has to do with like how healthy somebody's processing is already. Yeah, what's their liver? Yeah. What's their liver situation like currently? And if they're not good at the glucoronidation process, then adding that in can make a massive difference. Especially, I'd say it's good on TRT. Like if you're one of those guys that you think that you're a high or rheumatizer and this has kind of been my tirade for the last three years now. If you think you're a higher rheumatizer on TRT and you're on a legit TRT and you still have high estrogen, then that's a great place for looking at something like calcium deglucrate. On the other hand, if you're running a gramic here, let's get you on some aromasin. You know? That's the other thing I was going to add though is I would say the dim and the calcium deglucrate work most efficiently when your liver is working really well. So make sure you are going to use something like that. You've wrong some type of liver detox. Your liver's working really well. It's helping you recycle estrogen better anyway. You get in better T4 to T3 clearance. When your liver's working better, your body's working much better. 100% man. All right, let me see if we got maybe a couple more here. Topic question we could get to. But I have a different off topic question to end this episode with. It's three weeks enough to crash your test for testing low test in blood work to get TRT from my doctor. Depends on what tests you're taking. He says I was on 150 milligrams a week. So I guess he took that for three weeks. Oh, okay, I'm sorry. Maybe because I thought the scenario was because I got a lot of guys that are on TRT that want to keep, they got a good prescription price and they just want to keep it and then they do other stuff on the side. When we have to get them back into normal ranges, we will just stop their testosterone about nine days out and preferentially we'll keep them on the other compounds they're on, right? So there's still that inhibition feedback to the brain saying don't start producing more testosterone. There's already an interest in the system. They show up. They test it 560, 600, they get their script, they're good for another year. So, but you're saying he crashed his testosterone, his natural testosterone with 150 and three weeks. Is that what the question is? Well, he says and maybe you're right, maybe he was on it because he says, is three weeks enough to crash test before testing low test in blood work to get TRT from my doctor. That's what I hear. I was on 150 milligrams a week. So maybe you're right, he came off 150. And if I wait three weeks when my levels be low enough. Yes, yes. In the majority of guys, yes. Yeah, and if you want to make sure that it's low, I don't know the compound in. Yeah. That's it. All right. I got one more. Furt. Fuck. Sake Scott. Why did you ruin the Larry Bird story? That's awesome. And if you're on a blank, you just looked around. You had that you were talking about. Would I tell them about Larry Bird story? Yeah, you were telling me that. Yeah, you just a Larry Bird story. I got to, I listen, I got to redeem myself a little bit here, guys. We played, we, so we released those episodes in reverse, right? So we recorded with Ron. We recorded for an hour and a half. We literally did not answer a single question. We just bullshit it the entire time. And then we're like, we let it was a good show. All of our normal listeners that they got regular loved it. So when we came back, I was like, all right, we've got a topic. We've got a ton of questions to answer. We're like five minutes in to like finally answering some questions. And then Andrew's like, oh, skip. Before we were recording, you were asking me about something, you know, I just remember, I got this story about Larry Bird. I look at the time. I'm like, we're five minutes into the show. Did you just say I'm not? I was like, the body building that day. I looked like I looked like the deck. I'm sorry. I was like the, like the teacher. Did I tell the story? You didn't know because I was like, we'll save it to the end, man. Let's get through some stuff. Which means we just tell it. We just tell it. We know that we forgot. I literally forgot. Do you remember the story? Oh, did I watch these Larry Bird reels? Like, oh, I thought it was like, you saw them like, oh, Larry Bird wasn't, you know, town and he came to the bar. I thought it was one of those guys. I thought it was a trash talk. It was what we were talking about. He was the king of trash talk back in it up. No. I won't go into it. But like every day for some, you watch one thing of something. And it's like the logarithm knows like you like that. And I just start getting Larry Bird stories all the time now. And because I was, you know, it was a pretty good, it was before my time. Really, it's a basketball enthusiast. But I do like, there's something about the older guys that I just like because they had grit, you know, they played harder. They played through injuries. They didn't sit out 40 games out of the year because they have a hang nail, you know. And I just liked the stories about those guys. It was clunky, but it was clutch. Oh my god. You got any, any word of the day skip? Oh, man. I haven't done one in a while. Go to something else real quick because I take me about 30 seconds. You know, skip is where you're in purple today. Yeah. I'm waiting for the Barney jokes. Yeah, we didn't, we didn't. Nobody said anything. Neither of us. I love you. You. I think we're just used to his color coordination. Yeah. Yeah. But wasn't purple. It'd be like yellow and yellow or orange. Anybody kids whose older nose. I mean, right now, I'll have to say is this apples and bananas. And that will cue the subconscious and anybody with kids who had kids who was relatively close to my age will have that song in their head for the rest of the day. Those are the video take you put in a video tape. We were the first generation. I think that led to the kids, you know, the kids being on their phones at young age and not looking around anything else because we'd sit in front of the TV. We'd want 30 minutes of, you know, mom or dad time and they would just sit there glued to the TV. Then it turned to tell the tellbeez and you know, on that type of shit. But anyway, yeah, I'm on my Barney kick. Are we still feeling for you? Or do you, or you, you've got it now? I am. Do you got it? You can't talk about where you're feeling for you. I know. We got it. Go ahead. You guys. It's here. It's I just, we'll just keep rip it out. That's where the purple hat in a purple shirt to the other day. Okay. Here we go. I would have all these. All these together. What I did was I put up, sometimes I'll get a bunch of that are the same thing. Like, as an example of a hoard. Yeah. I'll know a hoard is a large or a passel, you know, which is essentially a hoard, large group of people, passel. But then we get into Clouter. Clouter, if you have a, like, I have a Clouter cat. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Cats. So then I went down this, the file, pH Ily. I went down that rabbit hole one day and came up with like a hundred different files. You're an astrophile. You like pretty pretty self-explanatory astrology. Okay. But I'm going to we're a file because I love cats. Andrew and Scott, you guys are cinephiles because in they, they will say dog a file, but that's a little, that's lame. cinephile. So you're a lover of dogs. I'm a hurrah, hurrah file, lover of finding time pieces. So I went down this rabbit hole. Anyway, Clouter is a group of cats. Mickle. Same thing, large amount, but it's more British or, let's see, mickle. Yeah. Mickle. Like a, uh, at a whole bunch of them. I've got so many in here that I have a specific, you know how you have your different categories on your phone of pictures. Yeah. I've got it in there, but I can't get to it because that, it takes too much. Well, I'm talking to take so much attention to get the little back through all these pictures. I think you got, I think you got some good ones for us. I'll take a mickle today. That'll be, I love you, except for people guys. We appreciate you tuning in. Thanks for watching as always. And if you haven't hit the like button, please do because it definitely will help us. And of course, go to, uh, team skip.com to reach out to skip and go to bodybary.com to reach out to Andrew, hit me up at McNally. Diet's at gmail.com. Once again, check out true nutrition, true nutrition.com. Use our code, think over there, get savings on all your basic bodybuilding supplements, including the team skip blend. And of course, thank you to everybody who shops in Canada at uh, supplements.ca. You guys get great deals over there. I've seen things for like literally a quarter of the price because they're short dated. And uh, Patreon, we got you covered, man. Thank you for uh, being here for another episode of Blood Sweat and Gear. We will see you soon.

So he described a 45 pound bar off the squat rack and just threw it through the wall. Oh my gosh! We got an Atlantis plate loaded shoulder press. Okay. Nice. Nice. So no. Go get a bone. But that's because we're selling a few things and we just haven't managed to sell them yet. So we don't have like lots of room right now. Really? No. I could have worse problems. Yeah, right now. Right now our problem is we have too many cool pieces of equipment. We're not going for everything. Okay. There we go. So I'm feeling good about just me as a person. I was talking about, I, you know, just the industry we in, we, you know, get a lot of like, you know, a lot of things through our Instagram. True. You know what I mean? Right. And you know, hey, maybe I click half of it. Take a closer look. Maybe I don't. I'm just saying. But I've looked at so many, you know, other like podcast shows and, like clips and guitar porn and self improvement accounts and also like those screen actors, accounts. I sent you guys with those great clips. Oh, yeah. Yes. And I've been watching so much of that stuff that I'm getting a little bit less, you know, less, overloaded my, I think if it's probably good for my brain is what I'm trying to say. Look at my search page. Probably good for my brain. Yeah. My cycles. Just go to cycles. Wow. There's, there's a hockey fight in the bottom corner and motorcycles. And if I scroll down, I got to get to like the second scroll before I get titties. So that's pretty cool. I'm a, I'm a good person. I guess they're better than I used to be at least. That's what this is. I have to go way down to get to her and her. Yeah. So like, I got, like, still. Yeah. How are you guys doing? I got, like, there's Eddie Van Hale and this kiss. There's Jay Cutler. I got guitars. You know, there's like a meme with a girl, but it's not the girl. It's just the meme. You know, Donald, I'm like a normal Donald kick. Yeah. You know, look at us. Look at us. It's God's not showing his. God's not showing his. Yeah. You guys are on Instagram a lot more than me. Like, I am not. And that's why you, like you'll send messages and like, I don't see him for, I'll get there and I'll see it. Like, you know, after it's been like three days. But for me, it's YouTube. Like, my YouTube feed is all the guns. Just all the fun. All the guns. All of them. Yeah. All the guns. I got two against cigars and not guns. I don't understand. Oh, they're definitely against guns. Two. In fact, we're probably demonetized because we mentioned cigars and guns in the same sentence. They don't, they don't like the cigars. They just got to ride already. They can have a cigar and gun bot. That's all it looks like. It's a ghost and gun. Our show didn't even make it up when we tried to set up a YouTube. But moment we posted it or we went to posted it wouldn't let us. What? Yeah. Like, the guy, he called me and he was like, I got to do this and this. I mean, it went up and then our entire page was like disabled. Okay. You might have to deal with an 18 or over thing, maybe, because it's tobacco related, I wonder. I don't know. That's the ATF, the alcohol tobacco and firearms department. That's use on us. The ATF is watching you guys down there. We had a recocase last week with, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. That's ongoing. That's ongoing recocase. We were ongoing recocase because of our past transgressions. Yeah. We got it. We like share, subscribe, comment. And bring the bell. There you go. There you go. There you go. Yeah, we appreciate all the support. Once again, remember mutant. I am mutant.com. Go on. I am mutant.com if you're in North America and use a code, dusty 20 or big run 20. Doesn't matter what country you're in. You can use a code in North America. 20% off. You get a deal. We get a little gold star. You know what's out. It all works out. And then of course, remember to, you know, support the think big channel. Scott does a lot of work producing. He's actually hired some staff now. Yeah. But there it think big. We got news. He's got actual staff. I'm not sure if we want to out them. Rachel. Rachel. Shout out to Rachel. I heard she's a Rachel. Yeah, yeah. Okay. Thank you. Rachel. I noticed she, she was like, you know, I figured that was her doing the editing when I saw the one post on Instagram. Yeah. Well, we're doing it. We shift gears. So initially, we were doing the Instagram Reels, right? And then all of this started happening. And I thought to myself, you know what a better use of time would be is actually working on the platform itself, right? If you can release more YouTube videos. Instead of us having to labor over this entire podcast, what if we were to pull like the best clip from a Jordan Peters episode or a last clip from Jake Kotler? So, you know, some of our listeners, they haven't had a chance to even watch some of those. Like, they weren't with us back then. So we're revisiting some of those. And it's allowing us to get more content out, which the algorithm loves that, the more you post, the more they reward you. And the more you become addicted to the dopamine surges that it provides. So my day is scheduled around multiple dopamine appointments. So, so yeah, yeah, everybody who is stepping up to for Patreon, because that does help a heck of a lot. Thank you. Yeah, I was just going to say the Patreon helps a lot with, you know, getting it all done final product. Yes. So we got a quick hour Q&A here, gentlemen. Zoom. We're going to hammer. And the reason we're doing things a little unorthodox this week, we're doing our Q&A first. And then we're going to do our interview episode. We normally kind of flip that. Yeah, but you guys wouldn't even know that because you'll see this on Saturday. Yeah. Yeah. We can't be very, come all until, you know, the Saturday. You get its priority. Yeah. So it's going to come out opposite. So come all hasn't happened yet in our world, but in your world, you've already watched him. And he just messaged me back. He's good. I wanted to double check. You know, that's the producer thing to do. He's good to go. So we were okay. Okay. We got 34 minutes of Q&A. No, 20, 26 minutes of Q&A. He's on it for 30. You know, okay. We got an hour. We got an hour. We got an hour almost. It's still going to be a bit less in the way. If Dusty brings up anything about pizza without forks or shoelace, you know, locker room situations, you're going to, you're going to need that hour run. You're going to need that hour run. You're going to remember focus on the world's use. Very important. Yes. Yes. Okay. Okay. Let's do some YouTube questions for the people. All right. The people. There were number one. There were so many Jim stories of accidents that people had. Like I mean major ones. And and minor ones as well. But like we triggered something in everybody. I did want to bring this one up just because it was worth mentioning. Christopher Davis says that I was squatting four and a half plates on a Smith machine. A couple weeks ago, when suddenly the cable snapped. And one of the metal beams came loose. The machine started rocking. So I had to bail out and let the weight drop. I wasn't injured at all. But obviously a bit shaken up thinking that it was going to fall back with the whole machine ever since then I've had been hesitant to use a Smith again. And I wanted to ask you guys, have you ever seen a Smith machine fall over? Because I feel like that would basically be like a car crash. I've never seen a Smith fall over, but I've seen. The one of the rails pop out before. Which can jam up the like the bar can get jammed. You know, because the rails are farther apart than they're supposed to be. So then there's like a you know, and the person doesn't always realize what's happened. So it can be very like, you know, dangerous. But I've seen Smith come apart. But I've never seen them tip over. I saw a camera who was but some one of my friends I follow was was doing Smith squats in a gym. I don't think was his home gym. And it wasn't secured to the ground in the entire machine move during his rep. Oh, my God. And it was for the forward. Yeah. So he pushed back and it fell because it was now behind him. Somehow didn't get injured. But it's like that kind of stuff drives me crazy with like. I understand equipment moves, right? I mean, Ron, you guys move stuff. Some equipment you can. It cannot. I think a piece like that is like it. You got to figure out a way to make sure it's not going to move. I mean, that's pretty. Yeah. Smith Smith should be bolted down. Both of ours are bolted because you just don't want that moving on somebody. And. But another thing to is people do really dumb shit on Smith machines. Oh, all the time. Oh, yeah. Like like. I'm not even that big of a fan of the feet forward squat because you're actually kind of really driving into the rails. Right. You know, and. And the, you know, that's not necessarily like you can like you're, I think it's like your way better off to use a hacksquad at that point if that's what you're trying to do. Sure. And you know, same as like guys who do way too heavy on the military press. And their elbows are actually behind them. So they're, they're, they're really driving into the rails with their pecs until the rep gets halfway out. Oh, yeah. She's there. You know what I mean? Like they're elbows go back and they're really pressing into the rails. And I mean, that's, that's just not what they're for. I mean, you're not doing yourself any favors doing that. You're actually like, that's like the awkward way to do it. You know, you know, you're under it and press straight up, you know, but people want to go so heavy on Smith. Everybody do like three, four plate shoulder presses and their elbows are behind them. So they're really packed into it. So yeah. Okay. That was just a quick little one. And then we had one from Jim McDonnelly. He brought us a good one last time. He, he's patriying by the way. Thank you. And he gave us a, like a whole slew of good overunders that we, we used one day. Oh, damn. So he's back. And he says question for the next podcast. He has his own podcast, by the way. They do like text stuff like nerdy computer stuff. Oh, okay. Cool. And all that. He says question for the next podcast, which person is the biggest tool? The person who records every one of their sets and walks around the gym with their tripod. That's number one. Number two, people who start dancing in the gym, like turn a nightclub, three, newbie doing bodybuilding poses in the gym mirrors, have some shame people for the person who thinks they can take multiple machines for super setting leaves a machine vacant for several minutes, then tries to kick somebody off. I have two more sets, bro, or five people who take a big, stinky dump in the men's locker room. These guys are all these people are there. I do know that. Yeah, they're all there. So which ones of biggest tool? I'm not a fan of anyone who giant sets in a big gym. I think that's unrealistic for you to expect to take up three four machines on a Monday night at a busy gym. I think that's a lot of for you to expect. Yeah, right. Also, people who if you're going to do a drop set on a chest fly. You're not using a machine with a pin. Use a machine with a pin. That's that's literally the most if that the best way to solve that problem. It's not to grab four sets of dumbbells on a busy night and hog four sets or five sets of dumbbells for your drop set. That's not. It's just not like cool gym etiquette. So yeah, the sort of hoarding machines and equipment, I think, is a problem. I wouldn't use a word tool though. I don't really like to call people tools. There's tool behavior, but, you know, sometimes people just don't realize. And then, you know, I'd say that's a close, close competition with the, see, the quote here is people who record every one of their sets. Yeah, so that to me is that's ridiculous. It's different things. It's different things. Yeah, it's different. Then just setting up for like your one set of hacks at day and then you're taking your phone down and you don't even use it rest of the workout. That's a totally different type of behavior. But the recording everything and having to document like, you know, if I see someone filming their leg workout with their body, I'm like, oh yeah. If then if I see them the very next day filming or five days later filming another leg workout every single set, I'm like, what'd you do with the first one? I even see it. I don't know. I can't believe that. This is, this is dog going on your stories like you're putting every single leg workout up. I don't know. Anyways, that's my thing. I just like the time you put into this. Yeah. He's a podcaster. So you know, I can't really back those. So my knee jerk is I want to pick on the dancing person. But here's why I can't. The generalized lack of give up in a person like that is very impressive to me. Frank. Yes. Yes. The fact that you don't like, and I understand there's some people who do it for attention, but I've seen people that just don't like, you know, they're in their little zone and I'm like, yeah, I got to tip my hat to you. You don't care, and that's impressive. So I want to say that person, but I can't. So yeah, I'm going to have to say, I'm going to honorable mention you on the Super setting because there's a few ladies at the gym I used to go to that would go up and grab all of the like, tens to 20s like four women. They were all training together. Yeah. But they would all do the same movement at the same time. So no one was body one, but they had all the weight. Right. Yeah. Like all four sets of 15 pound dumbbells. Yeah. And you're like, you guys aren't, I mean, you're actually all training alone together. Yeah. Yeah. And then they would all go, okay. Now it's going. And then they would all lean back and do their flies whatever new just like, they're taking up four benches. Yeah. Four benches. Four sets of the dumbbells around the same size. And I'm just like, wow. Okay. So I mean, wow. Good for you. I guess for being completely oblivious to other people exist. Yeah. I have to touch on one thing. I have to touch on the dancing thing that you said you, you give them credit. I am. I can never pick on them because I know for a fact. The air guitar. The air guitar. Yeah. You remember when we were trying to do by and I said that to you. He said there. Yeah. We're like between sets. I look at Ron. He's got his headsets in. And I'm mouth something. He's like, how do you take this out? We're songing playing. He was, what? We're songing playing. He goes, what do you go on your erg guitar? Oh, God. I didn't even realize I was doing it. That's great. I just had a little chug going. Yeah. I had a little chug. A little palm you'd going on my hip. Yeah. You know, he didn't mention I did a thing one time. And I caught myself doing it. And it was okay because I was the only person in the gym. My buddy, a client too, my toler. He has like a little, it used to be any time fitness. He changed it. He made it independent now. But it's a little key fob gym. And it was Christmas day. This is five years ago or so. I went through a breakup. And it was Christmas day. And I was going to my parents house. And I wanted to get a workout in first. And it was chest. And I'm going to tell you it was the absolute, like best workout I had had all year. And I think I felt like a little bit of like that little bit of self-hate, you know, little anger, little, little being upset. Love that. And I had like rage on something like that. I can't remember what I think it was rage against the machine. And I was the guy who was kind of like, nobody else in the gym mind you. Maybe that's what I thought comfortable enough. I was kind of like pacing between sets and looking at the floor and kind of like maybe like costing out loud, just just under my breath a little bit. You know what I mean? Like the whole time and I was like maybe a little hyperventilating. You know, right, right, right, right. If you look at it, yeah, yeah, just a little. The music was contributing. You were almost dancing. You were almost a ritualistic tribal display. Yeah, right, right, like that's what I mean. The dancing is technically sort of the same. Yeah, the brain is the air guitar. So I can't make one of them. It's just this coming out differently. Yeah. There's the guy to who sings to the headphones. There's that guy. Yeah. So the odd time there's a guy at our gym and he sings a lot. And he'll be at the water fountain just wrapping away. Okay. Yeah. Pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, just out loud. It can't hear yourself. So you're kind of like a deaf person. Yeah, and then if my music is like one of my headphones is out on my Come on. Yeah, that's like how that wraps to himself again. Yeah. So on this note, because there were so many you guys had so many good comments. There was one more I wanted to address. Funny gym stories. You said I've never seen a friend of mine. Wait, worst, but funny gym story I've ever seen. Friend of mine, a competitive bodybuilder. Oh, no, wait. This is a different guy. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Oh. I had to get rid of it. Yeah. I couldn't let you get no credit, sir. I'll bring that back. I'll bring that back. I'll bring that back. I'll bring that back. I'll bring that one back. But this was just because this was so impressive. He said, weird guy at the gym story. Me and my buddy were heading to the little locker room to get our stuff in leave. We saw a kid walking in. We both had to do a double take to make sure we saw it correctly. The kid brought a katana into the gym. When we were leaving, he was on a machine on a lake press. Still with the katana. So he just carrying like a sheathed katana around and casing needs it. I don't know. I asked if he had a pizza or say I purple headband. Oh, my god. That's what I said. Did you have it like a shell on his back or anything? Yeah, yeah, yeah. It was not a hotel. Oh. Is that right? That's 20. That's something like, like, you know, I can imagine seeing that in the gym as an owner. You know, I have some questions. Yeah. I would know. There's some objections actually walking. Yeah, it's good. You're, you maybe put your, your Santa Marais sword in the locker or maybe I can hold it in the office for you. Yeah, that's a good idea. Yeah. I do something to try to help them out. All right. Because I brought it up. I got to bring this one back. Sorry Steve. Sorry Steve. He's back. Competitive bodybuilder friend broke both forearms into construction accident. First day back in the gym. He says I'm going to make my comeback. And a guy who's known to be a wise guy comes up and says, You never were there to begin with. Yeah. And ends up getting throw in through the sheet, Watt Rock wall until it was repaired. You could see the spot where he went through. So for like a waker dude, It's like a whole, the shoggy rock. It's so that led to a thing I wanted to ask you guys because you've been in the gym for obviously decades now. What was your best gym fight story that you witnessed? Because everybody's got one. So I got to tell the funny sheet rock story first. Okay. Oh, there we go. Good. This was the gym back in, this would been back in Grand Paris and probably like, 1993 maybe. I would have been like grade 12. And the gym got like a new manager or something. And you know, the new manager comes in and he's like, Oh, you know, we got to make it more marketable. Right. And he's so he gets this bright idea to build. I just a dry wall like just like an eight foot wall. Right in the middle of the dumbbell rack. Past the 80 pound dumbbells. So like the dumbbells are going to go to 80, then there's going to be a wall. Then you go around the eight foot wall and the dumbbells will start at like 85 and go up to 130 or whatever we had. Because he thought, well, the big guys are intimidating. So we'll build a wall. And the big guys can train on the other side of the wall with the heavy dumbbells. I'm not even joking. Enter is like this. Yeah. And there was a squat rack on one side of the wall and a squat rack that was on the other side of the wall. And he would, he was telling all the big guys, he can go squat and that rack. His stuff. Idiot. Like, and I don't even have to go into how square footage works when you insert a wall. It actually, a wall. It actually, a wall. A wall swallows up like way more space than it actually takes up on a blueprint. Right. And you know, just eat into everything. Like everyone was like, what is this wall? And it went up so fast. Like I literally went into gym when day and there's a wall. I'm like, right? So I can't, I don't know who to give credit to. It's one of two guys because it was so long ago. But Corey and Dube. Dube. Like, guys. Corey and Derek. Yeah. Corey, the bracket and Derek, Dube. Those two guys, man. They were like, they were like, cool, this guys. And they were like, a little older than me and they were bodybuilders at the gym. And I can't remember. I think it was Derek, Dube. But one day he went in there and he saw the wall. And he was like, so he just grabbed a 45 pound bar off the squat rack and just threw it through the wall. Oh my gosh. This wall is now done. Yeah, this wall's done. Is there the cameras here? You're just through the wall. Well, I've got to take it down. That's amazing. Yeah, dumbass. You're a man in that dream. You're a man in that dream. I like that. I like that. I like that. I like that. That's how we thought though. This is a problem. I will fix it. I'm just going to punch a hole in it. And then they're either going to remove it or put it effort into fixing it. And I'll just punch another hole in it again. Right? So it's through a 45 pound bar through it. Get to that out of here. You know, I just could see of like pulling the bar back out, putting back and there's good measures work out. Like, I'm going to finish up legs. Nothing happened here. Nothing happened here. Anyways, I think the statute of limitations on just throwing that wall's pass. So I can mention them. And you know what? Who knows if the story is even completely correct. But that's how I remember it. Yeah, remember him throwing it through that wall and just laughing, like laughing uncontrollably about how like, oh my god, I can't believe that. It's kind of me, him I'm talking about those are the things you see in the gym that you don't see. Like I was asking about fights, but that's just as good. Like those things you don't see. Yeah, yeah. You don't see that like at other things in the world, you know. Yeah. So yeah, good times. Good times. Do you have any wrapped around this idea that I can't remember. Yeah, that I built a wall in the gym. I want to fire him and the person who hired him. Both. Yeah. Yeah. You know what? It's funny. It's been so long since I thought about that. So how I got I got to tell you Scott, I have nothing that can come close to any aspect of that story. Yeah. The wall going up or how it came down. I mean. Wow. This guy was so far ahead of Trump trying to keep me separated. Yeah. Yeah. Build that wall. There was a it was at powerhouse, Novi, which was their World Headquarters. And they were getting there. They've gotten away from the like the body building thing. They're more about the fitness thing and the competing with like lifetime. Stuff like that at World Headquarters. And they had dumbbells that went up to like 130. I think they were. But the dumbbells from 100 to 130. They ended up moving away from the normal dumbbells. They had this like powerlifting area. And it was 60,000 square foot gym by the way. And they had them all the way on the other side of the gym by like the like, like some rope and some random stuff and one bench over there. So you wait like us do your and they moved him there. They weren't always there. But they decided they were going to try that to kind of like, you know, same thing. Build a wall. Just with sheer space. So when I needed those dumbbells, what I would do is I would walk over there and I'd strap up and part of my workout. We'll have to carry on over. You're done. Leave them there. I just put them at the end. You know, after the you know, after the hundred where they're supposed to go. Exactly. Just on the floor right there on the floor right there. Yeah. Your idiocy is just going to make me stronger. Yeah. You can get the car or was. I'm going to get stronger. It's the way I thought. It's got traps. Yeah. They made those dumbbells. Yeah. How come everyone at that gym as huge traps? Well, the owner moved to heavy dumbbells. And they're all really upset about it. Yeah. I got a real bodybuilding question here from iron ore. Your thoughts and mini cuts during the off season. I think it means you got fat and you shouldn't have. Yeah. Some people just can't get away with eating. How other people eat and sometimes they have to do a little. A little three week trim up or something like that. I think it's really interesting now with what we're talking about with insulin sensitivity. And you know, how you can actually, you know, theoretically maybe grow better if you stay between eight and 12%. As opposed to like, going to, you know, 16, 16, 17%. You know, it doesn't necessarily make you grow any better. So, um, and you know, we talked about, you know, all of our different off seasons. And, you know, whether we actually yield it any more muscle by getting a lot heavier or medium heavier. You know what I mean? And, you know, some of my best perhaps are when I didn't get nearly as heavy in the off season. You know, so. There's some definite validity to doing like a mini cut. I, I like to ask people. I like to monitor appetite more than actually how they look, you know. Like if they're having hard time getting their food down or like, oh, man, I'm really fucking like struggling with this food. You know, that's, I think, a good time to do a little, you know, Remind your body to be hungry, you know, die for a couple weeks. I think it's good for you, you know. We never did it, of course, because we were just like, well, diet starts, you know, may 15th on the calendar. I got, you know, because we did one show a year. So it was always just a repeating off season, then die it off season and die it. So, but I think, you know, I think it's definitely a valuable tool for a lot of people. We'll put it that way. Yeah. Not everybody, whatever. It's been a little too many years. It's been a little too many years. I do have clients, I'm kidding, aside that we have to, we have to let them be a little too soft and then bring them down throughout the year. They're just, I got one guy a particular that if I don't let them get a little soft, he doesn't put on any size. Yeah. But then I have to carefully pull it back down and it's just, you know, because the way he carries his fat is in one area. And I'm worried if I let that sit there too long too heavily. Yeah. Yeah. A skin issue later. What are you interested in? What are you interested in? He carries it like between the low, like it's funny, but I'll kind of say it's like female. It's like between the love handles and like down into the glutes. Okay. And it's a whole area. Like everything will be reasonably tight and then they're just bam. You know that word I can't use. Frank, Frank and beans. So, but yeah, that's what it is. It's an up and down, but for the most part, I do think what I said joking and being beginning, which is if you're, if you're not really prone, just make sure you're watched on a time because like you said run a lot of people. I know I was guilty of this when I first was gaining. I got to get heavy and it was the scale. Just like what as long as that scale goes up, I'm bodybuilding. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. Which still isn't actually a bad plan for a certain type of guy like, right? Or I think a young guy, you know, the younger guy or more mesomorphic guy, it, you know. Especially a mesomorphic person, you know, who's got like the body type for it. Like just move that scale man. Yeah. You know, like, but again, not everybody's in that zone. It's pretty lucky. I think I'm about half mesomorph. So, you know, a little bit of that. What's the tall skinny one? That echo. Yeah. We're just skinny. Yeah. So they come like an actor with a tall part, you know. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Got another good one here. Another bodybuilding question. Lots of talk about studies, crisperically, hypertrophy, and lower rep ranges. 5 to 9 being superior than 10 plus. As anything over this range is only causing additional fatigue and no benefit. Do you ever take these studies into consideration and adjust your training or for your clients? Or you stick to what's worked for decades. Really any rep range pushed to failure to keep the gains coming. Seems like the internet and amount of information we have now on training. People are looking for an exact formula instead of just doing the work. Yeah. I don't overthink that stuff. You know, to be honest, because of the Dorian stuff I did, I mean, a vast majority of my stuff was five to ten reps to fail. I would go down to five on certain body parts, like maybe your main work set of chest or dead lifts or something like that or squats. But, you know, everything else would be minimum six reps to ten reps. I get it a lot of that, like a lot. And with my clients due to all the experience since then, I sort of like the six to 12 reb range for most working sets, most straight sets. And I sort of shoot for like a couple of the sixes and then more of the ten's, like sort of when I'm looking at the volume. You remember the heavier weight and the lower the reps kind of the higher the risk. So you have to, any just look at the person to or you know, some guys are built for, you know, some guys are built pretty sturdy. Other people aren't built to sturdy, you know. So there's, there's a lot of little things that go into that, but I mean. Everything we've seen so far that I've seen shows that training really, really hard is the number one factor. And the, the rep range that have all shown high-perchography has been the kind of three to 30 range. As long as you're training hard, you know, the, the, the, the extent of your effort on the sets, you know, that seems to be one of the main factor for high-perchography. You know, I try not to overthink that. Yeah. I think the overthinking stretches into a lot of stuff now. So I take it really simply. If you are, if you're doing, let's just say for numbers, 200 pounds for six currently. And you're doing that same 200 for 12 later, you're probably bigger. Same thing if that number is a hundred for 16 and now it's a hundred for 30. Yeah, I don't really worry about that that much. And I think the thing that drives me crazy about these studies and things is they also bring into account things like Scott and I talked about it over the weekend, which are. Now we're in this, oh, we want to stay in a shortened range of motion and constant tension because that's magic. I would like to use a word I can't use here, but it doesn't. Frank does the math. You know, yeah, it's real loud, kind of, all the once. Like when I think of when I got the greatest changes, it was when, for example, on lats. It was like, when Dante was like, oh, no, no, no, on your, on your ratchons drop all the way down. I want the arms and the lats to fully relax. Yeah, like all the way, then a full pause at that stretch. Then come all the way back up again. And you could literally feel when you dropped into that stretch and really let your lat release even further, a stretch into your armpits, which used to be my armpits. And later became an extension of my lats. It was just a further distance. So I really do think a lot of these studies and things get in the way because I tell my clients all the time, are you feeling that where you're supposed to? Yes, okay, it's fine. Yeah, like we can beat it to death, but if it's on there the whole time when you're done, you can't squeeze it anymore and you're not feeling some other muscle join in. Cool. I guess we're good. I mean, I just think you can really over-abuse these things and numbers and stuff like that. And I also think one thing to add on the rep range is somebody to be said about training the mind. And there is nothing more disgusting than a set of squats or a set of leg press to 50. Yeah, that's not just strength. That's your brain. You want to stop at 30 and there are 20 more in the tank if you're a sadistic enough. And most of you will never know that because the study said to stop at six and that means your six isn't what it could have been either, right? Because you're not crazy enough. The over. I think all this information is good in a way. It's the application that becomes a problem and the trendiness of certain things that become a problem and people changing what they're doing, even though what they're doing was working. So I see guys that have good backs, like good backs and they're changing what they're doing because they're like, oh, I want to isolate more. I do think though that the back is such a complex body part that we shouldn't necessarily be isolating one little muscle. Like it works together. It's a complex. It works together. Like when you do a one arm dumbbell row. It's not just your lap. It's your rhomboids and your traps and all the muscles underneath your shoulder blade and everything pulling and your rear delton, your rotator cuff and it's all coming together because it's a it's a giant compound movement. Like we don't see you don't put a bar on your back and then try to turn your glutes off in a squat. Like you'll fall over your glutes have to fire in a squat. Everything has to fire in a squat for you to stay rigid and straight. You know, so when they when you're doing these one arm pull downs, which I have nothing against one arm pull downs, I do them all time. But when you're doing them and you're trying to turn everything off except your lat. I just don't think that's a that's the best way to get the most out of your train. Officians you know you should do one arm pull downs and your lat should be wound with blood, but there's a lot of other things in your back that should also give us a lot of blood and then too. Like there's a lot going on. You know when you go hard and move some weight and all that stuff. So I just don't think you should you know if if if it's if just your lat has some blood in it and there's nothing else going on anywhere. I'm not necessarily sure that's the best way to train something like back. You're great. Yeah. All right. We had a couple more here. You guys could do something if you could focus on something other than bodybuilding and build a career. What would it be? I mean, I would it's stuff that I kind of am doing already anyways, but like I would love to get in like I definitely enjoy a lot of aspects of real estate. But I think just like bodybuilding, I would actually pigeon my whole little pigeon home myself a little bit because I enjoy it. So I like it's not fitness bodybuilding, right? Like I really love mids country modern houses. I would like to buy them update them. Yeah, that's right because then you get the reward of the money, but also the the joy of I bought it at this did this to it made it awesome and sold it for that. So I get all of those pieces like I could see getting it out for sure. Hmm, that would be fun. Yeah. Yeah, that's cool. I don't know. I think like, you know, it's hard to say now, but you know, I do love. I have some friends that are in the rock and roll business, you know, like one of my good friends is like buddies with, you know, producers that have made all the biggest albums in history. And, you know, there's a lot of room in that industry for someone that loves the business and loves music, you know, there's all sorts of, you know, from owning, you know, music stores to be an involved in recording studios and being around those bands and the, you know, learning the tech side and there's all sorts of stuff. I don't know. I think it might be cool to be in the music industry back in the day, you know, I don't know how it is now, but, you know, it would have been, you know, some cool stuff, you know, lots of guys that never like played in bands or anything, they're just did this love plan music and love music. Some of those are the best guys producer wise, you know what I mean? Yeah, that'd be cool. So, you know, involved somehow, maybe an agent for the bands, the bands get a deal, you know, taking care of them? No, no, no brown M&Ms. Yeah, we do ride it. You know, here's a good one. Everybody loved the posing stuff about hamstrings and somebody mentioned they were like at 49 minutes, 53 seconds, tell me everybody wasn't flexing their hamstring at that moment. And I was like, I was sitting at my desk doing it. Oh, you guys are talking. Damon Damon says, educating and entertaining, if you guys want, I would love to hear more posing tips. I have learned so much about displaying leg development in the past few episodes, and I'd really like to hear more if possible. By the way, death and black metal is all I listen to, Ron should give it more consideration. I work with him. In fact, I think he has like a big pentagram tattoo. He's like, our age. I think he's got a big little baby tattoo. I'll have to check him. I'm like this 29. Yeah, yeah, he's like, yeah, 27. Like our age. Yeah, cool. Yes. Well, I'm glad the people need help with leg posing. That's something that people need help with. So I'm glad they found a little bit of a little bit of a lesson in there. You know, yeah. What's the next thing people have problems with? What do they have back? Like back as a tough one, isn't it? It's so hard for me to explain the simplicity of opening a back. I got nothing harder than when people first start. Go ahead. I got one. When you're doing it back double by a set, yeah. You shouldn't be able to see your fingers wiggle in your peripheral vision. Your hands should be behind you. You rotate back. So your fingers, you shouldn't be able to see your fingers. You know what I mean? So I see guys like this, but their lats aren't really out and they lose a visette peak from behind. You got to roll it back. Yeah. So that's a good one. You just like rotate, you know, just rotate the arms back farther and crank it back. You fill the whole back lock up and it looks like it gets wider. It's like a really good vision. But I use that as a rule. If you can see your fingers wiggling in your peripheral vision, your hands aren't back far enough. Right. Yeah. He does. He has like a big pentagram on his back. So that's that adds up now. Yeah. How about this one? This is something I think I tell a lot of the newer guys in it's that you see them hit like a front double by set. And they don't really inflate themselves. You know, they just like here. I am front double by set. Right. And the way I explain it to him and it really won't maybe translate as much on audio. But like, you know, you take a guy who's standing here like this, just normal. And then just think about like inflating all of this. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. Expand your rib cage. Think about breathing up. I mean, who's going to look bigger this guy? You know, who's just here? Or, you know, that guy. So it's like, yeah. I think that's it's a simple one, but maybe I didn't do that in the past because I remember somebody else teaching me that, you know. Also on the front double, I tell people to reach for the walls with their elbows. Oh, yeah. Try to just try to just reach out with your elbows a little like get a little wider like you'd be amazed. You got a little bit more in you. You know, you got some shoulder girdle that you can spread out there. Yeah. People don't always close their arms down well enough either on that like that. You see them like that they're up here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I could close that down. Yeah. And then I like to leave just a bit of a gap. So you can see where the bicep like peaks. You know, if you close it, if some people, if they close the arm too far, it like fills the hole. Yeah. I always close it all the way so that no one realized there was no peak. Yeah. Very much part of my plan. Just yet so much tricep. He could bend his arm all the way in his tricep sweep was still crazy. Yeah. I know you've got some run. I've got one more and it's important. And this is an over and under, a timeix shoes. He said he's been on a pair for three years. You should want them for longer. And then stop wanting them. I think it's the most over. Like, and I had them. I'm sure we all did. But I had them when I was first bodybuilding because of Tomix and a big water bottle, where the only way that people could know I was bodybuilding because I didn't have any muscle. That was my like, you know, if I was a couple years earlier, I would have also had some of those big socks. Maybe coming out of the top of them. Yeah, I think a Tomix or a terrible looking. And they don't do anything. This magic with the floor and the whole thing. Not necessity. You know, I really, the only thing I say is don't put on shoes like, and I know it's not as popular but like air maxes that have like air bubbles and they go get under a 500 pound squat. Like, it seems like something might go wrong. And as much as I kid about like, you know, chalks and stuff, I train them just because I like them in a cheap like, you know, on other days I train in on clouds because I think they're like super comfortable and I like to support. But like, leg and back days I always train in chalks just because I always have, I don't even know if I think it's like a flat foot thing. I think half of it just because I've always trained in that. So it's my ground zero, you know what I mean? Yeah, I don't, I don't think it's magic at all. But automics are definitely magic because they're right up there. Like, they're the original crox. I don't have anything against the Tomix, but I never had a pair. They were never really my style. I was always into like a deetus and stuff like that. So I just never had a Tomix. And then I did try like a few pairs of like when like the writer wears kimota had like a pair of those just to see how they were, which is kind of like an atomic. But I didn't really, I like, I like more of like, you know, like a chalk is great for the gem. But I also like, you know, other shoes of deetus and stuff like that. So, you know, I like Jordan's, you know, remember Kybron and back like 2010. Well, he did like, he did like the full on like, like a boot though. It was like, yeah, yeah, boot match the color to a sweatshirt. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, right. Oh, you know, as if his calf needed any more attention, but the boot went up and had to open up 76 inches to give it a yeah. Yeah, I forgot that I hate Ky and I remember you never part of why. Because he's better than me in every way. Anyways, I did have a question here. I wanted to get to before the end of the show. Yeah, because I actually have something that I'm looking into like a business wise and talking to a couple of guys that I know and we're just sort of feeling something out because we have, you know, There's an idea floating around. But you guys, you know, anyone who ever buys or meet in bulk like directly from a farmer like gets like a half a cow gets it all built it up fills this freezer, you know, guys, it do that, right. Yeah, I mean ideally that's the best way to buy your meat, you know, Of course getting the craziest price. So we actually, we're actually kind of feeling this out seeing, you know, What people would be interested because we we have the resources to bring, you know, full beefs, half beefs and even quarter beefs. To two guys that want to pre order their meat, you know, you and you'd save an immense amount of money because of, you know, the idea we have, you know, cuts out all the middleman and, Yeah, you know, you'd be getting strip loin for hamburger prices basically, you know, and, you know, you know, you, this is a parent candidate, but, you know, you'd be getting getting the meat for a far better price than at the supermarket. And, you know, you'd have to have a deep freezer, you'd have to split it with some of your buddies, like you could order a half a cow and you could each take, you know, A quarter of you get four guys and you each take quarter the meat or something like that, but we're, we're feeling it out to see, see how many people would be interested because, you know, we're looking to see like, you know, the economy, Yeah, everything is driving, you know, and I don't see body builders and fitness people wanting to, you know, drop the quality of all they want the best they want the grain fed, they want the, you know, all that all that stuff. And the grass fed beef, I mean, they want the grass fed beef, you know, they want the good stuff and they want the best price and this would be the most ridiculous way to get it to them would be in sane price savings. The only thing is you'd have to order early in the year and you'd get it later in the year, but it would last you like the whole year, right, you know, like you'd be getting a lot of meat. So, round or something. Yeah, so we're about you, you know, like I'm ready. You know, I don't know, I didn't sell me on buying into this is the part that I'm a little fresh. Yeah, whatever. Well, I'm, you know, you know, you know, but yeah, and then so whoever's interested, whoever would be interested and and you don't necessarily have to live where I live. But if that's something that you think is a great idea, we're just getting a feel for it, you know, the the prices of our up. You know, not everyone's happy with the quality of the supermarket meat they're getting, they want the grass fed stuff. Yeah, so it'd be the best meat for the way best price. Like there's no way they'd be able to get a price like it. But, you know, you need to have somewhere to store it and you'd have to, you know, be patient because you'd order it in the spring and you'd get it in the fall and it would last you know, all winter and all summer and, you know, like you'd, you know, ideally you could order, you know, once a year technically if you had this base for it. I got a question. You'd say thousands, thousands and thousands. Millions. I have a question. If you do this, can we call the company, Rans Meat, can I advertise it on the network? You can't beat Rans Meat. Exactly. It's a Rans going. Oh man. Or, you know, if you want to, if you want to taste the Rans Meat, just let us know. We'll send some out to you. I've never had better meat in my mouth than Rans. There you go. I'm not there. I can't say that the other guys will be thrilled about any of those names. But if they will, when the numbers come in, Ron, whatever gets the clicks off of here, you can't even get the numbers. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah. Yeah. Back again to, bunch of people in Rans Meat in their mouth. If you're in Canada, definitely send me a message. Tell me if you think that's a great idea. If you would, you'd be, you know, order in order and meet off me in the spring and you get it delivered. And it's fucking incredible. And as you got a whole freezer full and you save a couple grand over the winter time, you know, in saying. So what you're saying is, you're interested in Rans Meat sliding to his DM. Yes. He'll put it right. Slide this kind of price. Slide into my DM. Goods crazy though. Seriously is what I've run into here, which is wild, is going to the supermarket to get me and not caring what it costs. And they don't have it. Huh. That's another thing. And I'm like, what? What? I mean, so I, when I think of this opportunity, that's the first time that came to my mind wasn't even the price. I don't have time to go to another store and now I have to. And that pisses me off beyond belief, you know, you go in or if they happen to put a sale on it, which brings it to twice what it used to be. Instead of three times, it's also gone because someone like me bought all of it. Like, yeah, you know, it's that is our three problem here with the good stuff too is because I think in our area, they under estimated what people are willing to pay for quality. So they under order. So yeah, all of the really good beef is gone or if you see it, get it because I really think that they were like, oh, everyone's tight. And I'm like, there's a lot of rich people here that are not willing to step down or it's the or it's just important to them. And I'm rich, but they're like, no, I, I will go without 10 different expensive tennis shoes or something because I need quality food. Yeah. Right. And I'm certainly happening is there's some online sites that sell grass fed right from the farm meat, but they sell it like so they sell it to orders so you would like go on their website and order strip lines. And it's a strip lines, but their prices are actually way higher than the supermarket because you're getting a premium product and all that stuff. Right. And the infrastructure and the. And if inventory is an enormous issue for those guys like there are massive mass operations, but this you wouldn't be doing that you wouldn't be ordering a pack of some pack of strip lines you'd be ordering say a quarter beef or a half beef and you're split into with your buddy or whatever. So you could be getting all of it. You'd be getting some hamburger some strip lines some surreloins, you know you'd be getting everything and you'd split it up. So we could use the same price per pound for the whole order and you'd save an enormous amount of money. Guys, I got it in the house. Yeah, come on. So here we go. Yeah. Rotate. Absolutely. Go. All right. Do we want to do we close that? Anything? Yeah, let's close this up. Do a quick close. Thank you everybody. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell and don't forget soon. You can have Ron's meat in your mouth. Oh, that's God. Yeah, that's my. That's a perfect name for the company. Yeah, the guys. I don't hate that. Remember, I am mutant.com. Go on, I am mutant.com. Dusty 20, Big Ron 20. You know, all that stuff. Thank you guys. And remember, it's just bodybuilding.

I remember puking through my face mask. As we were running, I'm like I puked through my face mask and then kept running sprints and then puked again through my face mask and kept running sprints and there were guys like falling down that just couldn't get their legs to move. They're like jogging like one mile an hour just to finish. But the whole point is it's like building toughness. Toughness stuff, you know? And I think that's something that I think that that's a huge element that a lot of people who want to be bodybuilders miss. Okay, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. Dusty Han Shouts got me now in myself from part-low