. Thanks everybody. Remember like, share, subscribe, comment, and... There you go. Thank you. Thank you. Get everybody. Remember it's just bodybuilding.

All right, here it is. Here it is. This is the ridiculousness. Okay, the eight-legged. Eight-legged. What was it? Up. Can I watch this next one? I got to see the bar speed on this. This is crazy. Yeah, that's the key. Oh. Just tosses it on his own arm. Everyone else. If you could even do that, it would blow out their bicep ten and just wouldn't hit. Yeah. There's a bunch of stuff I've seen in my life. Frank, why is it made me giggle? Right. You know, like it's like, like, if you get like a super painful massage, I'll sometimes start laughing. Yeah. There's certain things that trigger laughter that aren't that you can't do. It's not funny. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Hey, everybody. Welcome to another edition of It's Just Body Building Reacts. Big Ron Partlo, Dusty Han Shah, the producer's got me now. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell ring the bell. I am mutant.com, get your ISO search, get your all in and everyone should get on the gear. I am mutant.com. Thanks everyone for hitting the website using the code Big Ron 20 Dusty 20. Under the reaction video, I've been following this guy in Instagram for a while. Tom Havilland. And I've seen that, you know, like, some other guys like Joe Rogan brought him up. Just a little while ago. And I've seen these other guys start to follow him. And I'm like, oh, this is this is cool. He's getting some like real recognition. And I think I showed him to you guys, didn't I? Yep. Yeah. This guy's a monster. You guys got to follow this dude just for motivation and just like keeping your brain open to what's possible, like, obscene human strength. But this guy, I don't know the story about him fully. Six foot eight, 360 pounds. But I think his weight varies a lot. Like he moves his weight around on purpose. I think he's been like 400 at one point. And I think he's been, you know, diets down and stuff. But he does, he lives in Australia, I believe. And he, um, he does all this crazy shit. Like, we'll put up some of his, uh, oh, yeah, he's ex, ex armed forces, ex Australian armed forces. But he does all this crazy stuff. His workouts are nuts. Um, you can find his face if he's searching, but on his Instagram, he never shows it. Yeah, I can see his. Yeah, I can see he just trains at home. Okay. He's got all this crazy stuff he does. So put up one of his bench presses. I can last bench press video. All right. So what are we looking at here? Six. And 61 pounds. Most butt. Most butt. Any positive on his chest. Yeah, 61 in a sweatshirt. And listen to this bench press PR. Three singles hit over two days. She's so he did it two days in a row. So like he's not just strong buddies. Also like trains crazy. You know what I mean? Yeah. Like the type of guy that's like, let's bench 661, two days in a row. Let's see if I can do it. Look at that. He's just doing this like in his backyard. It looks like. Yeah. Yeah. His guy is a home little gym there. But I mean, that's a no bullshit. Seven plate bench. Yeah. Oh, my God. No, I'm strip. Yeah. And it's not. It's the next one. We got the dog. And the next one over this is Erkr's squat. I okay old school shit. Z Z Erkr's squat. Three on the bar. But it's a 700 pound 705 z Erkr's squat. He's holding that like his bicep 10 ends are holding. Yeah. I mean, oh, but like seen hook grip on that Jesus. That's insane. This is this mind boggling strength. Yeah. This is world class. 119 pound seal row with it. But it's like, I'm awesome. How old? Yeah. Check it said the log before using it. Oh, God. Oh. Yeah. So yeah. So it's like that that's his training environment. Oh, poisonous snake in there. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Be careful. That's wild. Wild. What's your gym like? Oh, aside from the poison of snakes in the top 10, most deadly spiders in the world. Yeah. It's good. Suddenly the suddenly the gum in the urinal at crunch fitness isn't. Yeah. I don't my people taking their shoes off. I'm going to pipe it down from now on here. Look at that plate carrier. How small it is. Oh, and he's agile too. Yeah. And then just flip eight, six foot eight, three hundred and eighty pounds there. Whatever it says. He looks like he doesn't have a neck. I can't see from the head. 81, 81 quick dead. Whew. I wonder if he has anything in his pockets of his pants. And just thinking about the figure of how much power is required for his height to pull that. Yes. That's like someone else pulling from ankle height. You know? Yeah. Look at that. Look at that. Is that five plates? Yes. Power cleaned that. And then zirker, is that five or four? What is that? Uh, looks like five. Five. Yeah. Five plates. Five plates. He's. He played that really. Up and through. There's one answer underneath the. People, people at home. Yeah. What is going on here? Look at this. Play this video again. This one's awesome. Sorry. It was like three back to back. So we'll have to see. Oh, Jesus. That is ridiculous. It was almost like the bar was empty. Look at that. You know, just have to snack with his dog. Yeah. I like the randomness thrown in after the obscene things he just did. Yeah. What did your day look like? Well, we started on jumping. I see. Where is he? I can't. He's got a weighted vest on. Yeah. I played. This is like a standard size plate, right? It's a post-protect your organs. But I feel like it's not. He's like a little bit. Yeah. Here it is. This is the ridiculousness. Okay. Eight. It was it. Up. Can I watch this next one? I just, I got to see the bar speed on this. This is crazy. Yeah. That's the. Oh. Just tosses it on his own arm. Everyone else. If you could even do that, it would blow out their bicep ten and just wouldn't hit. Yeah. There's a bunch of stuff I've seen in my life. Strength wise, it made me giggle. Right. You know, like it's like, like if you get like a super painful massage, I'll sometimes start laughing. Yeah. There's certain things that trigger laughter that aren't that you can't do. It's not funny. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This information is, this information is difficult. Oh, yeah. So that. Yeah. Look. This sort of shit. That old guy at the gym, right? Yeah. That old one doesn't know. No one's like, and this guy doing his network. June and seven. June and seven pounds for three sets of ten. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Look at that. Oh, he's shit. That's a low deadlift. That's a low deadlift. What if he welds this stuff for you know somebody who makes it or you know, where he's gotten this from. I'm always fascinated by like, make shift equipment. Right. He does. He does some really cool stuff to like, there's one. It's in the middle. Just a down. About five rows. This is an over. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This stuff. Check this out. What is this? 400 something. Wow. Morning weight. Oh, he's 355 is what he weighs. This is four. Four 56 for a single. With the rack attached. He just went around to himself. Yeah. Yeah. You're pretending that that rack is weightless when you say that. Yeah. Yeah. That metal that's hanging from it has no weight. Really eight. She went around. I think the dog's not that impressed though. I think he'd don't want to. I wonder me a better response than that. Look at that. I wonder what the dog like, you know, he's been lifting a long time. Obviously I wonder if the dog's ever had to dodge anything. I think it's a wild thing. Actually. I think the wild. I think the wild. I think the wild. I think the wild. I think the wild. I think the wild. Oh, yeah. You know, or you've never done it. I was never back. Come on. 100 pounds of chain in each hand with some bands. Yeah. Just make it things. I love the jeans too. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I know. It's closed on the weekend. I can't train. I can't follow him because I'll just be in my house. I got my jeans shoes. I got to go home. Yeah. It's let me zirker's quite 705 in jeans. Yeah. Yeah. He does a budget. I want I want to get let me see Scott. All right. You go down one, two, three, four. Six rows. Go down six rows right in the middle from the top. Oh, from the top. All right. Yeah. It's a dead stop. Scott. He's squatting from a dead stop. Okay. What's up? Oh, can bar it, too. You know what I mean? Oh. So he's. So he's just jamming it up. And then he's he jumping with bands. Yeah. Oh, it's dog likes this. Oh. Oh, he unbuckled it. A. See what he did. Yeah. And then unbuckled it. Whoa. That one's pretty. Oh, give this naked out. Give this naked out there. Haha. Oh, it could some stakes. That's just. Yeah. I love it. I love it. I had to show you guys this dude. I. I mean, I don't know if you can. He'd be great to have on the show. Geez. I don't even know if he talks. I'm sure he does. He's a bit of a instrument from the back though. Yeah. Yeah. So we know that he. He's got a face. He's got a face. Yeah. Look, he's on the show. He was a men. He was talkin about him. Yeah. Yeah. You was AI. Yeah, but we use. Hey, but yeah, nobody know. Yeah. Next week. Durying eight. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Thanks, guys. Remember it's just body building reacts. The Tom Havillen though has a lot of fun. I want to make sure everybody sees that guy because I just like, that's just nuts that, you know, bizarre, the regular strength. keep that in mind when you're complaining about, you know, anything. That guy's Jim conditions and all that. And I don't worry so much about the gum in the urine, I'll dusty. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and bring the bell. Thanks everybody. Remember, it's just bodybuilding.

What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with Skip Hill. S2H, I'm Scott McNally, all of our programming is brought to you by TrundueTrition.com. You could use our code, advices, for some additional savings, plus hey listen, it helps us to support our programming. When we are doing podcasts about steroids and drugs in all that shit, we don't monetize this. So, that helps to support us if you guys shop with them or check out our Patreon. I'll put links to that below. Gentlemen, what's going on? Well, we don't monetize, but primarily because we can't. Exactly. It's not that we don't want to. It's they won't let us. Yeah. There's rules and it's all that I'll take a shit. We're probably like one step away from being banned. Like if the show just disappears off YouTube, it's because, yeah, we cross the way. We'll have to go to Patreon or, you know, I started some more. I started some more on. So, there's that. Yeah, we have to go to Patreon. It's good to have backup options. Yes. So, what's up guys? What are you doing? I killed off some whole foods pizza when we were, you know, having our hardware issues. Is that what you're eating? I didn't even look. Yeah, whole foods pizza is not real pizza. Yes. It's a good pizza. It's a good pizza. It's a good pizza. But it was good pizza. Yeah. I'll tell you that. It is very underrated. So, if you pass the pizza in whole foods and you go, kind of, let's go. It is fucking good. Yeah. So, it still pizza. But it's good. There whole pre-COVID hot food bar was the bomb. Like, do I have the bomb? The brisket, the chicken, everything. They still have it? Oh, they may not have it in Michigan. Yeah, we don't have it. We have it in our country. We have it in our country. I was here for my loads every Sunday. That's going to get in a whole bunch of shit. It's a delicious man. Yeah, that's awesome. Yeah. And you know, you tell people complain about paying about, you know, a bunch of money because it is expensive. But but just they don't. They don't make their stuff with, you know, high-fricted scoring serum all the, you know, GMO and all that type of extra kind of really is, you know, pretty healthy. Should of you're paying more for it, but it's good. It's good stuff. Yeah. We're not brought to you by Whole Foods, but we still work them. We might be, if we keep it up, we might be in a couple of weeks. And that would be an unload of spawn. We could do that. You could make, are you telling me that you could make that? I can make that happen. I can act it. I'm connected in the south. Stage? What's going on, man? It's supposed to snow here. You're kidding me. Are you being... Are you joking around in the story? It's 30 degrees right now. No, it's true. You know, everybody's fucking panics. Oh, yeah. It's like, you know, we're all gonna die. And they run the stores like crazy. It's... Yeah. I mean, it might even snow as it'll flurry. Yeah. Yeah. Nobody. Nobody. Nobody in New Orleans. I just read before we started the podcast that there's a state of emergency, because they're gonna drop below freezing. Yeah, that's same thing here, dude. A state of emergency. Holy shit. But they're like, wrap your pipes, drain your... When you're... When you're... You're fucking... What's more called, irrigation... Stuff on your yard. Yeah. I mean, everybody's gonna... I mean, it's overdue. All right. We're the water trickles in spaghetti. I think they described it as spaghetti... A spaghetti trickle. That's what it was. It was just a... It was just a system you have to do to win a rising. All right. Let's talk to the bodybuilding guys, because we have a bunch of stuff. We, for starters, skip has any evolving relationship with reps and reserve. So I want to hear all about that. Because I feel like at one point he was probably like, fuck that shit. If you're not going to absolute failure every time that you're not even working out. But his relationship is evolving. So I want to hear about that. We might talk a little bit about what seems to be what was a touchy subject between a few people online. Is bodybuilding a sport or a beauty pageant. I have a bunch of questions. Thank you guys, first of all. Everybody from the group pitched in last minute and gave us a bunch of questions. I think I have someone Instagram too. So I'll check over there. Tons of bodybuilding questions though. Gear training. Gear. Diet and gear. All of those things will be covered here. Skip has been coaching people for 20 plus years. Now if you do the math on that as a full-time coach, I mean, that's literally thousands and thousands of people. And I'm not like, it would you would be a douche bag if you were like, I've coached thousands of people. But I can say it. You have. You have. And you can say too, don't worry. Yeah. But seriously though, there is something to be said about that. So I'm grateful for that opportunity. We talked about as to wages, background, the other week coming up through, basically understanding everything about the weird and random compounds that exist in this sport. So I'm excited to dig into this. Before we get to the questions, let's talk about this for apps and reserve stuff. Because I want to hear what's up with it. Where are you at? Where am I at? I'll tell you where I am now versus where I was a couple months ago. I'm looking into it a little bit more. And when I say that, it kind of sounds or give the implication that I kind of just didn't pay much attention to it at first and give it much attention. And that would be true. For the same reasons that you were saying, Scott, because it's just a met. You know, I'm always kind of approach training and I've been training for a long time. How long Scott? That's Twitch. 31 years and six weeks and 46. Anyway. Point being, after a certain amount of time, you do kind of get locked into some things that you consider to be very black and white. And one of those things is, you know, you train your ass off in a short amount of time, you should can. And you get the hell out of the gym and you grow. I mean, that's just always the way I've kind of approached it. So when it comes to reps and reserve it, I had to laugh when I first heard it because I thought, Oh, there's a fancy name for not working very hard. I figured that was exactly how I looked at it. And it was kind of an I role because I'm like, go figure, you know, you got to take something now and you know, we have to. Put this science bullshit with it and try to make it sound scientific and anything else. But anyway, the long story short is, I started looking closer at my own training and I have this battle and I think a lot of people can relate to this. You know that you grow typically the large majority people will grow well on lower volume and higher intensity work. I think it's kind of a given to different degrees as far as, you know, what is low volume, what is high intensity things like that. And those definitions aren't terribly black and white. The point is by and large, I think most people know that they progress well doing it. The problem is, a lot of times we leave the gym feeling like, I think if I did a little bit more, I could have done more work. I think if I did a little more work, I might have gotten more out of it. I think the longer you train, two things happen. One, people who've trained for a long time do prefer usually higher volume. They want to work. Their work ethic is strong because they've been doing it for years and years and years. Number two, they have a high pain tolerance in the sense that, and I know that people who haven't trained for very long are thinking, well, I've got a high pain tolerance too. That's possible. But the reality is, along with you, train, the more you can tolerate. Not only the more intensity you can generate because you're going to train harder at, you know, five years in and you are at one year. And you may not think you are because you think that you're training at a hundred percent. But as you build muscle and you kind of lock in those pathways between the brain and the muscle that you're working, you can generate more intensity. You're contracting the muscle harder. You're taking the set further. And I think people will come to realize that if they try to, once you train for a long time, you can literally find yourself, I think, over training or dancing on that line of being over trained. And it doesn't feel like it. It feels like normal training and pulling back from that is kind of like, well, shit, this isn't terribly uncomfortable, this isn't training that I, I can do it. Exactly, do another set. I can do, you know, that sort of thing. So what I have kind of come to see in my own training is, and you know, if you're not constantly analyzing your training in your progress and you're leaving, you know, a lot on the table. So I'm looking at it. I'm looking at it going, gosh, you know, these workouts are going great. I've been progressing. At the same time, I'm thinking, man, you know, my strength is literally the same in prep as it is when my calories are higher in the off season. Why is that that really probably shouldn't be, I should be stronger in the off season when my weight is higher and things like that. So I force myself to back off on the volume these last, and it's only been a few weeks. And I started looking to this reps and reserve. I'm not going to leave reps and reserve technically. And count them as working sets, but I have cut in looking at that approach. I've looked at my total volume. And let's just say instead of taking your top two sets to failure, I take the first set to 90% which again comes back to reps and reserve. I'm not counting when I like, oh, I had three more reps. I had one more up. But I'm giving close failure and leaving that last set for kind of an all out thing. And within three weeks, my poundages are up like 10%. It's just retired. It's it's funny because then of course your recovery is so much better. Yep. And you start to notice it. And it's not even just your powdered is it's how things feel the dumbbells when you start and you get it three or four year like, oh my god, like this just feels 30 pounds lighter than it should. Versus oh my god, this feels like it's going to crush me at three, but I managed to get 12 with good form. Yeah. There's a different feel in that when you're recovering the way that you're supposed to do. I don't even know if I would tell this reps and reserve as much as you're doing what I'm doing, which is what I would call, you know, your own version of high intensity. Right. You know, yeah. I think what it is is the reps and reserve. Kind of got me to the tip of your neck. Climbers are yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Take a closer look at it. And the primary reason, if I'm, you know, being honest is I was struggling to struggle with my legs, especially coming off this injury. I'm like, you know, I want to really make huge strides with my legs. This actually my back has been injury free for almost five years. There's no excuse now to be uncomfortable or think that I'm going to blow my back out. I still have to keep it in the back of my mind, but I need to train my I need to train heavier and I need to get my weights up instead of being scared that I'm going to have to take a shit in the shower again when it's been five years now. So in doing that I still do that if you want to. Okay. And that was something I considered as well. Even the things are going off. I'm really shit in the shower. It's my fucking shower. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. So in doing that, I started coming off of this this injury and my strength is not really going up and I'm looking at my strength on legs. I'm like, yes, been three months since I have come off this injury and back to heavy leg training and I'm really no further. I should be further along in this. So in cutting things back, that's what I have just the last three weeks. My poundages for my entire body, not just my legs, but they're starting to climb because the recovery is so much better. And my necessarily keeping reps and reserve. Not as much as I cut the volume considerably and I've taken that one set away from failure instead of doing two. And when you're not doing very much volume, that could be, I mean, I'll just throw numbers at it to give you an idea. That could be a bit yours, you know, 40 or 50% reduction in intensity in a sense. And that can allow if you're teetering on the edge. I wasn't over trained. I was still progressing. But it wasn't enough progress until I kick back and then it just kind of took off. It's like throwing gas on a fire. Yeah. Yeah. That's great, man. I love it. And what you're talking about is a lot of is what I've been doing. If you, you can do a bunch of mediocre sets for a long time in the gym. You know what I mean? Like you could spend three hours of done it training back. You could do a bunch of mediocre shit for a long time. But if you really go all out and you do something that you haven't done before, you give your body that intense stimulus, then, you know, that's really like you could tell, man. Like, I got everything I needed out of that set. And there's no need to do those endless sets. And for people like us, I call us the people that aren't brand and curry. It's going to be to our advantage, you know, to try to figure out how to recover. You know, I like we just, so I got to throw this in here, Tony Miller. She says, uh, what happened to 715. Yeah. Sorry. We heard hardware issues. Yeah. I have got a couple clients that are in town training. Well, one client and her significant other training this weekend. And we were going to have Andrea on the show with me. We just hammered out some legs here in the home gym. And then she was going to sit in with us, but I had some hardware issues, so we ended up being late. So sorry, Tony. I'm just trying to be a man of my word. But we, uh, this is not skip spot. This is not as to age as far as. Let's talk about it. So we did a little bit more volume for glutes. We did like, because because what our big focus is glutes and then ham. So it was a glute hamstring focused workout. We did a few more sets for things like preactivate the glutes, you know, we did like some like hip thrusts. We did three sets of those. We did some like banded, girl type stuff. I call it girl stuff. It's like what all my bikini girls, bikini competitors do. Stuff like on the floor doing a, doing a bridge with the band, all that stuff. But you do that stuff before we got into the meat and potatoes. Then we hit hamstrings. I literally did one set. Like I worked up to one brutal, uh, rest pause set. And I actually this set was the heaviest set I've done on my hamstring cromachine. And from there, we moved over to, uh, what is it? Hacksquat. We did like sets of eight, not like failure, but like sets of eight probably could have gotten like 12 or so. And kept working up the weight until we got to one set where we did just like a brutal, all out rest pause set. So, you know, like three sets of, uh, hip thrusts, couple little BS things before that. To activate the glutes, then one hamstring curl, one, uh, Hacksquat. That's like four sets, five sets that we did total for the entire workout for legs. But I can do that and get out. They're going to be sore tomorrow. Like that set that we did for Hacksquats was like, all you had in you. You know what I mean? And, uh, I mean, I ended up, I ended up failing on it and had to like crawl out of the bottom of it. Um, I will be sore tomorrow, but I will recover from that too. You know what I mean? Yeah, I think too. If anybody's listening and they know the ins and outs of reps and reserve, like let's just say someone wrote a manifesto. And there is a specific 100% way to do it. I haven't read that. I'm not aware of that. I'm taking reps and reserve face value basically saying, you know, if, if you can get 12 and you leave two in the tank and you're only getting 9 or 10, leave two or three in the tank, then that I'm taking it that way. So if there is a very black and white way that it's not going to work. So the black and white way of reps and reserve would be you know, and now I, and here's the thing too, I've seen people get it kind of confused where I've known people that are like they always train with two reps and reserve. Like that's just what I do, you know, I think the way that I've seen it work well for people are the people where they, because you can only like be your strongest ever for so long. Like you can't progressively move up, you know, so periodization would be, you know, okay, let's say that I just lifted the heaviest I ever lifted on my dumbbell and climb press. Now next week we back it down to three reps and reserve. So I still use the same weight, but I leave a few in the tank and then or four whatever. And then the following week we do two reps or one rep and reserve. And then the following week, then we hit it again and I try to get more than I did before. I think that makes a lot of sense. I'm having a hard time adapting to that instead. I was talking to Ben Pollock about this and I'm kind of going with with lightning the weight a little bit. And then making it like, like, how hard was that actual set? Was that a never thing set that would be like a 10, you know, or whatever, or like, like if the 125s are like my heart set on dumbbell and climb press. The 115s are like an 8.5. You know what I mean? But if I knew the 105s, that's like a 7, you know. And it's funny that you say that too, because let's just take those numbers as arbitrary examples. You know, if I'm pressing 125 pounds and I can get 10 reps to failure. Yeah. Honestly, I'm going to get more out of the set that is at the 105 110 range to failure than I am 125s at my max weight. It's going to feel better to me while I'm doing the set. Yeah. I'm going to have better control. I'm going to have better contractions because there comes a point with me. So I assume that there comes a point with everyone where when you go to heavy, you can still get the reps. They may look like great. Yeah, the mechanics may be great. The four may visually look good from the outside, but they don't feel the same way is they do if you're a small percentage of weight underneath what that max all out set actually is now I'm not saying stay away from the max set. Oh, I'm saying it is personally, I don't want to hit that. I don't want to focus my 100% of my energy my focus on growth on that set. I'd rather focus it equally on that set prior, whether it's prior or the one after. There is I call the green room and I'm sure it's a reference from surfing. Yeah, where you just get the perfect wave it rides perfectly. It's a perfect visual you wish you had a camera and if you catch 100 waves only one of them are you in the green room and I sometimes think about that when I come out of a set and I think oh my god that was just can't every set be just like that. But they are now. Did you hear that from the surfers down there in Florida or did you hear that I'm point break. Point break. I don't know about point break, but God that brings up Keanu Reeves. I'm not a big fan of his acting, but nonetheless that was that like early 90s. That's a old movie. I got it on the chest somewhere. Not only is Patrick Swazie alive, but he had blonde hair. He was looking like a stud in that movie. He's dead. Oh yeah, he's dead. He died of I want to say pancreatic cancer, but it was a cancer. It may not be pancreatic, but he died of cancer. I like to move you when you both look play thing with Demi Moore. Did you cry? Yeah, I don't know which is talking about it. I don't think that was a very popular movie and all. So what else do we have here guys? Do we want to talk about this sport versus pageant thing or do we want to move on to the. We do. I'm telling you it's a good one. I heard it three times from three different pages this last week. That's what made me want to bring it up. I got asked to. I wanted my Instagram Q and A somebody asked me about he building was a sport or a pageant. And then I also got asked was NASCAR of sport, which I thought that was interesting. I said yes. I had that. Yeah. And I'll reserve my answer. No, I'll say yes, but I'll reserve my explanation. S 2 H you should run with it. Sport or part of our past. I'm not going to comment on the kind of like Twitter. Bring it. Bring that. Mike in. Bring it in close. I can I can see where people who. If you look at sports in general, okay, from us all sports. There's a defined in state or a defined score slash. Result that makes somebody aware that's how to. That's a power. If it for example, right, who he who snatches pulls presses the most weight. And then it's going to win. Okay. Now I can see people who don't understand body building where they may think it's kind of a pageant. And I'm not saying it is. I mean, I would put it as a sport, but the subjectivity of the. Of the the placements, like whoever, you know, winners, first I can say to most people it's hard for them to really grasp that. There's a lot of subjectivity to it. I mean, it's not there's not a real defined standard. There's not like a saying, hey, if you're playing golf and I shoot three under and you shoot two under, I win. You know, I mean, it's for it's cutting dry. So it's not like it's not real cutting dry. The how people place in win. I think it also probably gets. I mean, I don't reason I could see like someone say it's a pageant is because it's similar in the aspect of it's an individual. Or individuals on stage in, you know, canes been, you know, posing trunks whatever. So there's some similarity to there's a stage. There's people on it. They're judging a physique. They're judging a look. But where people probably get don't understand it or even people that are in it sometimes can't grasp it. How there's not a real defined standard to place a winner. You know, there's not like a set, you know, hey, you drove around the track to fastest or you hit the most balls out of the park or whatever. Okay. So that's gone out of the pit. I can see their point. And I wasn't laughing to you. I was laughing at the comment about my tail. This is how recently I actually trained legs. By the way, guys. Nice. I do the same thing. So I'm going to get home and go, oh shit. I didn't take it. I don't leave those on dude. You get the worst lines in your skin. You're in my head. Well, they were on the same side. Yeah, not a disabled. Plus they're in the middle of the edge. They're thin cloth ones. They're not even. They're like just to keep your leg warm. It was custom made over your calves. Yeah. He needs Velcro. He's got Velcro latches once they're over his calf. Where are you then? Scottie McNally. Man, I'm going to go with a sport. You know, I kind of churped in when Scott was talking as to H.S. Talk and seeing what about gymnastics. You know, there's things like that or ice skating. There's subjective. Yeah, they are subjective. I think that it crosses some lines. I do think that. It does take talent though. I'll inject that. But go ahead. Yeah. That's how you used to go. What's it? One of the real quick. It was like gymnastics and ice skating. Not that I follow you very well with my mother. There is. They have set moves that people have to perform to a certain standard. Very dry enough. So there is a expectation of a sort of standard of performance. Right. I think that would be a little bit different. But I can see the similar boxing. I mean, there's a lot of boxing matches. People think somebody wanted somebody didn't. Yeah. Right. But you're looking at primarily at the judging component of it, which it's a part. Don't get me wrong. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I was carrying. Well, what I was going to was. Now, until you've actually done it. Like I feel like here's the thing. I feel like, listen, I all respect everybody deserves to have their own opinion. And I think that's totally great. I do think though. Sometimes I hear a lot of opinions from people who haven't, like, really had a lot of experience with body building. I'm a competitive level. You know, you're, like I said, you're entitled to your opinion. But I think a lot of times it's those people. And I feel like there's a certain amount of negativity that comes along with that that say that the people who are like, you're not naturally. You know, body builders aren't athletes. And those are like, then a lot of the people, though, who say that are just like the fans. They're the people that don't really know. Like you can, you can be a lot of people who say that are just like the fans. But don't really know, like you can, you can be a big fan of it. You can listen to all the food outs podcasts and you can understand the way he thinks by kind of paying attention really closely. You can know all the names. You can know what a good pose looks like. But until you've actually been up there battling side by side for first place, you don't know what it feels like physically to hold a pose under those conditions. And I think that that does take, it takes a lot of, a lot of physical strength to do. So I will say that there is definitely a lot of fine tuned ability. And the guys who do it really well, like if you just watch pro body builders, you know, a lot of people are just fans of the pro level. Like they make it look easy, you know, they make it look so easy. Even the guys who aren't considered to be like great poses, like they're blowing away, you know, like somebody who doesn't know what they're doing. Like these guys are so in my opinion, they're, it's, I don't know how you would define talent, but they put so much effort into learning how to do that, learning how to do that well. And, you know, presenting yourself and holding those poses is something that until you've actually done it on stage, you don't know what it's like. So I'll say that there's a lot of like athleticism that that takes. And then it gets kind of murky, but then there's some athleticism, you know, in the gym too. Like the, the work that you have to do. And you always hear people say that the competition doesn't happen on the stage, which it does, you know, but the competition happens leading up to the show. You know, that, that's where all the work is done. I think that it takes a great deal. I wouldn't say that it's all sport. I think it's part sport and part pageant. I think that it doesn't really fit into anything. And let's face it. I mean, I love the sport, but sure. Yeah, it is weird. Like if you really think about bodybuilding, it's a weird thing, you know, and that's, I love it, you know, but it is strange. Yeah, that's, I think that's not happening, so I think that would be, I don't know how somebody can say that. Yeah, you hear it though. I'm looking at the guys up there. You hear it though. Yeah, you hear it though. Yeah, you hear it though. What is it? Mayor. Talent. Where's the talent? I want to hear the talent because I'm, I'm obviously leading into the fact that I just agree because I see it as a point. And I'm not thinking you're wrong because you are right. You made a very good point, Scott. And this is what I said online, too, and I got, you know, jumped on for, which is hilarious, because that's the internet. But you are entitled. Everybody's entitled to their opinion. I'm not saying I'm right. Well, I'm just saying how I view what we do after doing it for, for so long. And it doesn't mean that because I've done it longer that my opinion is better than someone who hasn't done it as long. I'm just saying I've done it for a long time. I've been up there. I've been the competitor. And I still see it the way that I see it. So how do you feel? So I'm just asking where the talent. What part of it is talent? It was talent. Anything like some of it say, hey, skip your very talented. Talking about it. Okay. I mean, but there's no talent. Here's the talent. Here's the talent. Here's the talent. Here's the talent. Terrence Ruffin. He's a talented poser. He's read it what he does on stage. Okay. And I would agree with the posing component of it. But he's not winning shows because of his posing. He's winning in my opinion. He's winning shows because of his physique. The posing is an added dimension that may set him apart, you know, from from other people. But it's not typically going to win a show. I mean, your judge. I've seen guys in the mirror. I've seen guys in the mirror. And you're going to see, though, guys that don't, the guys that have, like, we'll say the opposite level of talent to Terrence, you know, that's what I think is that he's going to have, I can think, like, I don't want to put him on the spot. But I think one guy that I really like a lot in there was a critique this past year that he could have placed higher had he been a better poser. So I do think that posing does play a role into it. Like knowing that's part, it's just like to me. That's part of it. You know, if you're thinking of part of it. But I think it's incredibly uncommon that the posing can take you up in to the things unless everything in an odd situation is just so bizarrely neck and neck. I'm not saying it's not important. But let's just take it at this, I guess I'm looking at this way. Terrence's level. I won't disagree with the fact that the posing is far more important. But if you get into the pretty much an damn near every show in the amateur ranks, I mean, it's just such a mind. Now, if you, if you get into that, you're just all presented. If you're going to do it poorly and you're not going to be able to to to explain your physique. Excuse me, I'm sorry. At a level to where, you know, you're just really shitty at it. That then I can agree with that. I just don't see the talent in what we do to prepare for competition. The posing, I guess, could be considered a talent outside of the talent though. The dieting, the picking up weights is, you know, what do you really work out better than anybody? That to me is not me is not a talent. And I don't want to say that in a mocking way. If that's what you guys think, but I just don't look at training like that. It's black and white. It's do it. Do it to the degree that you need to do it to get better. But I don't see talent in that talent is is like you were saying, doing a triple lutz or something on, you know, in ice skating or being able to even shoot the fucking, you know, you're a nine ball champion on a pool table. That takes talent. Now, I'm not saying that's the only thing or the only reason that that the sport of body building to me and I say sport that I don't consider to sport because I consider a pageant more than anything else. I'm not saying that because there's just because there's a lack of talent involved. I have other, I have other reasons. I think now, and this might irritate some people listening to damn sure what irritate people online. I think that body builders, especially competitive body builders, who know what it takes and the all-consuming components of 24, 7 dieting training. It's on your mind. It's, it's consuming. We want to treat it as a sport because that gives it credibility to call it a pageant. In our minds, as we're not Hawaiian trapping girls, but you are in the very literal simple sense of how you're judged. You're judged only on how you look. You're not, you're not judged on how you train. It indirectly impacts how you look. I agree with that. But we all know plenty of people who are ten times better than we are on stage, and they may not train and diet as hard as we do. So it's not just a work ethic issue. You do what you have to do to be the best that you can be. But you're not judged on that. That's all left in the gym. You're judged only on what you look like. And that is no different than a Hawaiian trapping contest at a bar with a bunch of drugs. And the Hawaiian trapping girl has the best hits and asks and she gets $500 for the night. All right. I think Scott Steven said agrees with you. And he made disagree with you. I'm not sure I didn't read all this. We'll put the comment up and we'll see what's going on. Let's see what Scott says. One thing goes. What's the definition of a sport? In that intro. What's the genre of a generalizer? I think Scott gets into that here too. Let me see what he says. Let's see. Just because a particular competitive endeavor requires athleticism does not make that competitive activity a sport. If bodybuilding were standardized as a competitive endeavor such that posing performance presentation were formally graded, subjectively, a figure skating. It might be considered a sport. But that's not typically the way in which play things are decided. I think I'm with skip. What skip is going to say more of a pageant. And then he adds. Got one more here. What's going on? What's going on? He says I have seen some guys have better talent in how they train. That's interesting. They simply can connect with the muscle in a better way. I noticed that right off the bat in training with Dave Henry different from other people. Now that's a good point right there. What about that? I mean, I guess that could be considered a level of talent. You see people that are like natural athletes. You probably as skip. You probably worked with people that are natural athletes. You know that it's like, they did sports all their lives. They come to body building when they retire. And they just were really good at it versus the guy like me that went to art school. And I feel like a decade later. It's like I can own it now. But it's like it took me a lot longer than some other people that work for. Dude, I went to high school with this kid Quinn. I don't what says last name. I don't know why protect this identity. We also did some really bad shit that we've got to probably gotten to jail for. But that was high school. That time's gone. This kid was greeted everything we did shooting pool. You know, running fighting anything we did. He was he was just genetically connected to that shit. Is that a talent, skip? I just I disagree with that component, you know of what he's saying. Dave Henry may connect better, but it's not anything necessarily that he has earned or turned into a talent. It's something that comes easier to him. It's no difference in someone picking up a baseball and being able to throw it harder. Then someone else are hitting a golf ball for the first time. And all of a sudden they're pretty good at it. That's just something you develop that. You made you made develop that. But again, I just I don't see it as a talent. And I'm not trying to undervalue, you know, what we do. I mean, it is all consuming. It is incredibly difficult. Even if you're not at a high level. To be married to this and have this passion. Whether you're good at it or not to do it. It's very difficult to do so. I'm not trying to take anything away from anybody. Remember, I'm in there with, you know, the guys who disagree with me. And maybe I've trained longer than them, too. And be married to it longer. I don't know. I'm saying, though, strictly from the the the judging component. You're being judged on how you look. I just sometimes I scratch my head and I go, I don't know how other people cannot see this as a pageant. Because that's how we're judged. It is subjective. There are parameters that, but they're so gray. There are no different, you know, bikini contest. Physicon, you know, women's physique. It's not straight across the board. bikini is, I mean, you know, and I don't want to offend anybody by saying this. But the reality is bikini versus open body building. The criteria for open body building is at least more black and white than bikini. You can put it on paper and make it sound like it's black and white. But you can pretty much hideous girl wins. I'm not saying that I'm oversimplifying it. But you're not, it's just kind of a total package total. Look, and then you're going to justify that placing from there. It's, it's a, it's a glamorized pageant. Okay. To me, we start to take more to get there than it does for something like a, you know, Hawaiian, Travex, Contest or something like that. I see the, I don't believe there's any talent involved. I think it is execution, consistency discipline, you know, the day and day out, you know, married to it type of thing. And I think at the large part of whether you're going to be really good at it is whether you have that hereditary component to where you're more genetically predisposed. You know, it's the, does fill his work harder than the guy who, I feel he's is a bad example because he has seven Olympias. But some of whom wins only be our turns pro. Are they necessarily working harder than the person who hasn't turned pro and doesn't have very good genetics? I don't know that that's always the case. I mean, we got a lot of hard working people to state regional levels. We'll do it for years and years. But they're not going to get there. Not from a lack of, you know, talent, I guess they just genetically don't have that. You were talking about your fun scat. We got to move on though, just let's you know, because we're, we're, yeah, we're going way, way along. So I was trying to stop you a few minutes ago. Okay, it goes both ways and that's, that's fine. If you have a different opinion, that's cool. It's when you don't ridness is what it turned into on the internet. If you don't respect the fact that they're differing opinions on it. Yeah. Then it turns into name calling and then you're not qualified to give an opinion and ship like that. It's just kind of laughable to wait people react over it. But do you have any final thoughts, Scott? Are you good to move on? Get some questions knocked out. Just totally talented. I'm talented, but not in bodybuilding. Hey, what's going on, guys? Thanks for watching another podcast here at Think Big Bodybuilding Media. And thank you to our great sponsor, True Nutrition.com for making this all possible. Truenutrition.com is owned by Dante Trudeau, the creator of DC training. You wanted to create a supplement company that offered high quality third-party test and supplements at a fair price. High quality protein powders, just about every type you could think of. Huge variety of flavors, plus health and performance supplements. Check them out, Truenutrition.com. And hey, if you use our code, advice is you directly support our podcast and thanks, guys. Let's get back to the program. Let's get to some questions then, because we've got a bunch of them. Sorry, I didn't want to cut you short, but I just know like, We'll go on about it. Yeah. He reaches 17 minutes. Yeah, exactly. All right. We had two topics too. So I know people were waiting together, questions answered. We did a bunch of stuff, like I said, over at the advice is radio group. Also, guys, if you're watching this on YouTube, feel free to comment on this post. And we'll get to those questions in the next episode. And also commenting helps to boost us in the algorithm. Comments like all that stuff. And if you haven't subscribed, please do because we got a bunch of content coming out each week. Let's see. We're going to start here at what body composition. This is Kyle Becker, by the way, at what body composition, a body fat percentage amount of muscle is ideal for starting a cycle. I'm going to guess he's saying like an off season cycle, but, you know, I don't know. Settling in, like the normal, if you're not 10% you shouldn't take gear. Yeah, like, like, you know, where should you be if you want to start a single, or most people know what body fat percentage they really are. Yeah, I mean, okay, let's just say, if you're healthy, you're not obese or something. I mean, you know, this is just somebody wants to take it for the aesthetic purposes. You know, not because they have low testosterone or something. I mean, it's not as you're in decent shape. I think there's no like, set body fat, but I mean, there's a point where your body fat, so high that you're, you know, you're not healthy. So I mean, if you're healthy, your body fat center range, your healthy, guess if you want to take some stuff, then, you know, that's, you know, it's good because every in the world's going to say they're like 10% and they're really like 17, 18, 18, 18, I mean, yeah. I don't think people know what their health or body fat really is. Yeah. I don't think it's a good gauge. So what would be a good gauge then to decide, you know, your healthy? Yeah. Yeah. That's a big one because if you're, if you're obese, I mean, you're not healthy. Okay. Hearts under a lot of strain, your organs. I mean, you know, blood pressure is probably high. Different things like that. So if you have good markers and you're, you know, you're reasonably in good shape. I mean, it's your personal choice, but you know, the people that shouldn't are the ones that are not healthy. So, you know, if you have diabetes and you're overweight and all this stuff, then it's probably not the thing you want to do right then. Skip how many people come to you and they're like, hey man, I've been thinking about working with the coach. I've been watching Blood Sweat and Gear for the last five years. And I want to hire you, man. I want to grow as much muscles I can and they come to you and their body fats to hide to really start a growth cycle. You know, with body fat percentages, like if he did say ideal. Okay. Yeah. I deal going into a growth phase. Again, ideal is that your body fat is relatively low. So that things like insulin sensitivity or high and you're ready to basically take advantage of the growth phase. Whether you're going into a cycle or not. But I will say if you, unless you're really well versed in advance in using, not only in bodybuilding itself and you've had, you know, a few off seasons and you're more than a handful of years into, you know, you know, even if your body fat level is high and you start your first or second or third cycle, you should still respond relatively well to that cycle anyway. I don't think it's, you know, it's not like you're going to get shitty results. It's just that ideally, again, going back to him using that word, the lower the body fat, the better. And that's just, that's just something that has become more and more obvious and people are starting to accept thankfully over the last, you know, five to eight years. Where it used to be that, you know, put on as much weight as you can, eat to get as big as a house and then worry about body fat later. And I never liked that approach as to age touch on it, not only for just progress and results, but even for the health component. I don't think it needs to happen. I know that there are plenty of people who argue differently and that's fine. Listen to their podcast. See what they have to say. My opinion is that the health does matter, but even if you take out the health out of it and focus only on the progress part, you're going to or should have better results if you start out where in more insulin sensitive and grow from there. Psycho, or not, again, even if you're natural and you're not going to do a cycle, the more insulin sensitive you are, typically that comes with being leaner than the better opportunity you have for growth and progress. Doesn't mean because your leaner going to automatically have great growth and progress. Everything has to be in, you know, optimally put together and executed and executed consistently. But you are starting yourself up to be more successful if you come in leaner. Start the phase leaner. All right. How about Joshua Howes been? Says, how do you know if your digestive system is screwed up and how do you go about fixing it? I guess you know if your digestive system screwed up because your digestive system is screwed up. You've got problems. How do we go about fixing digestive issues? That's a complex question because there's a lot of digestive issues. Yeah. So what would be some of the first things? I mean, if you could ask you. So it's a bad move in issues, loading gas, assuming that he's not digestive and food well. I mean, the first thing I look at is what you're diet, like, what do you eat? Yeah. It could be something that you could be allergic to something you're eating. Sure. You know, you could be lactose, it could be an issue. You know, there's a lot of things. That's a pretty broad question. I think you'd have to figure out the main thing is figure out what's the problem. You know, what's the cause and effects or what's causing this issue? Is it what you're currently eating? Is it, you know, do you have a, you know, like I said, are you allergic? Are you having food allergies or something going on? Because if you just start, you can randomly guess and start changing things. But it's kind of tough just to throw a general blanket at it, you know. I missed the question because I was trying to figure out how to fix it. Gotcha. And I hear the end of what you're saying as far as variables. And I think that's a huge thing. My clients, if there any of them are listening, they don't typically listen to make it, they don't like me very much outside of working with me. But anyway, when variables change, the, the less the variables change, you're going to understand or have a better idea of why something was, why something worked or why something didn't, much like you're saying by throwing a blanket at it. If you change five things at once and it works and you don't know why it worked. If you throw five things at it, it doesn't work the same thing. You don't know exactly why it didn't work. So when it comes to digestive issues, I mean, that's such a, such a broad, I mean, there can be so, you know, some of the examples. So I have a guy that comes back, works in me about once every year. So you're in a half, he's been for years and he has all kinds of that. He did have all kinds of bad dishes to this years. And like Skip said, at first I kind of tried to change a few things and it was like, okay, what worked better, but not as good. And then so then we just, over this guy has been with me for years. And we just kind of, I just kind of switch things one at a time. Because I had to figure out what was causing the problems. And I was a certain type of diet he needed. You know, he needed actually lower protein, more carbohydrates and lower fat. And it is digested issues, you know, he didn't have many more. But that was something, you know, that was something I couldn't have changed like two of those things. And now the other, and then we bounce back and forth and we try to, you know, the green foods and all that stuff and didn't work. And finally it was just he didn't do well with high fat, high protein diets. Okay. And it's funny that you touch on the macros because, you know, a lot of people, and even myself, I tend to think, it's probably a food. And sometimes people can think, they can miss something so simple as well. Maybe it's oats or something because they say or they think, well, I've been eating oats for a long time. And all of a sudden it's a problem. Just because you eat something for a long time doesn't mean that it can't develop into some sort of an issue. So typically, if you eliminate one food at a time, you can get a better idea. But it's funny that you say that about the macros because that's very true. Sometimes it is your actual macro ratios. If your protein is too hot, if your fat is too. Some people just don't tolerate higher fat lower carbs while some other people don't tolerate very well. Well, the higher carbs, especially when it comes to fiber. I think fiber is finally getting the attention it deserves in the last few years in the sense that I don't think the large majority people should be thrown down massive amounts of. Fibres carbs are fibrous vegetables and things like that because I think that a lot of people don't. Tolerate and don't digest those vegetables very well at all. So if you have this thing, you have exactly have a distinction and you have bloat. You know, a lot of people will do things like the broccoli's and the things that take up a lot of space because they feel like it helps to satiate. I would argue that it doesn't it just takes up space and the stomach. And then you have potential fibers where you're gasy, you're disdained. You just generally don't feel as well. And then you eliminate or you cut that those vegetables in, you know, make a really big cut cut them in half cut them down. They'll be 30% of what they work. Then I will suddenly feel great, but we you make a recommendation like that and people are kind of like, what do you mean? Cut my vegetables and I'm trying to stay healthy things like that. Sometimes the massive amount of things that we eat, it just doesn't. They don't digest well. Remember, we're eating a lot of food, we're eating a lot of protein, we're eating a lot of other foods too. And sometimes I can do just pile on. So it's a process of elimination. That's where I would go first. I would start eliminating one food at a time or not eliminating it but changing it. You know, if it's if you think it might be a car issue from fiber, change out, you know, oats. If you're eating oats to another car of source, like, you know, potatoes or sweet potatoes, I don't know. I just threw it throughout some examples, but. And then just go from that one time. It's not hard when personal someone search a new food like, let's say they never eat. They say, you know, it's not all bloated. Yeah, problems. But it's another thing when someone has these problems consistently no matter what they eat. Yeah. And then that's where I figured it out because I was going to change like the car sources up first. That didn't work. Change up some of the protein. That sort of, or says it's all came to the same result. And that's where I decided, hey, this guy doesn't do well with one of these is too much of one. And so it just bounces up and down and we figured it out. All right. You guys do anything with injectable. Oh, current team. Any benefit to using injectable. Oh, current team. If so dosage and when would y'all recommend taking it? Never. I've used it. I've never had a burning issue with it. What I found was, I don't like terribly frequent injections like that even though they're, it's very thin and it's kind of a water base or kind of a watery type of solution. It's not difficult to inject. But it's just it's like one more injection if I can kid me. So I tried it a few times exactly. I tried it if you end voluminous. I mean, it's not terribly small amount either. It has to be I am so. Yeah, the common. Well, it's too voluminous to go subcue though. I mean, you're typically talking couple to couple. Yeah, I mean, okay. Anyway, yeah, it's a high enough one. But nonetheless, if, you know, it was in combination with insulin. And my argument after I used it a few times was I'd rather just take the insulin, especially when it's pretty cardio. So then coming back to variables, this is a very good example of that. So if you use in carnitine with a couple units of insulin, and you, let's say you get results. Is it the carnitine? Is it the insulin? Or is it a combination of the two? And I know I got just as good a results because I've always been a proponent of small, insulin dosing prior to cardio. Provided you're not so depleted and have blood sugar levels that are going to plummet or do in cardio. And let me just say without getting into it too much, a couple of IU of insulin, or a couple units of insulin should not make you go. If you go high, do in cardio, even if you take the couple units fasted, it's not, you better, don't blame me. Don't blame me insulin. You need to look at your diet closer to see why you're going high, now adding it on top of the potential that you're going to go high, is even what, but so please, anybody listen, don't do it while I'll skip side. I need to take insulin prior to cardio. I'm just going to be so better. There is, there are a million of reasons and ways to do it correctly. It's not, there's a whole system to it. So don't think you can do it on yourself. If you don't know or do it by yourself, if you don't know what the fuck you're doing, because you can mess yourself up. Point is, I didn't think, and I still don't think that the car natin, even injected, is worth all the injections, the volumous, and I don't think that the payoff is there. I've heard a couple other people say that it is, but it's a very, very small amount of people, and I just don't, I don't buy it. I don't personally, I don't buy it, so I don't promote it. And there was a point where, when I say subcute, there was a point where people were promoting that, you could do spot fat reduction with it, subcute. This is 15 years ago, so that's where I tried it, and it was not fun. I don't remember, I was probably two CCs. Maybe you wanted to see it. It burned, yeah, that was not, and the guy was, that was swearing about like, I just gotta keep doing it, man, I found out that I was like, fuck this. Yeah, yeah, it was miserable. If I love question is the oral word taking, or does it mobilize into a curse in a sin of sin? It's for my understanding the oral word. I didn't mean it, and I got thrown out. For my oral word, the oral word works, but it takes a long time to build up. That's what, this was 2018 Arnold Classic. Scott Stevenson, if you're watching, and John Meadows did a seminar, and they talked about how the oral would work, but you literally had to take it for months and months in months in order to get it to build up to be of any benefits. Right? Yeah, so basically, though, unless you take it, you know, exactly. And in relatively high doses, it's not, I don't think that the cost of benefit is there. You'd have to put in so much time and take so much of it, that if you, let's put it this way. If you believe that it works well, then just go with the injection because you're, you're, the reward, but the benefit is there a verse is having to take a ton of it orally when you can just inject it. And I say that even injecting it, large amount of people, the majority of people just aren't going to get much of a benefit from it. It's not even an obvious thing. Oh man, this is making a pretty obvious change. Scott says it will build up a couple of months. All right. Good thing, if you want to use it, everybody that works out should have like five extra bottles in their medicine gamut, they don't use it. Yes, it was a borrow all theirs dig it. There you go. There you go. All right, we had a bunch of our stuff. I look over at see what I had going on. I posted up a thing. Oh, yep, here we go. We got a bunch of them over at Instagram. I normally don't do Instagram, but I was, I was like last minute trying to scramble and get our show together. So I've got some over here. Okay, little drug stuff. This is the reason that we can't monetize the program now as of now. No. No. Yeah. We'd love to know a pre-mo versus master on comparison, pros and cons of each prep versus off season. I got to grab something to drink. So I'm let you guys start taking this one away. I'll be right back. All right, we're all in the sky. I'll pick you back up. Oh, my legs. So they're not the same drug. Did you get it? No. I mean. Would you take that as round by itself? No. There you go. I wouldn't even take pre-mo by itself, but if I had to pick between the two, I would take pre-mo by itself and let me know more. Right, exactly. Let's say you were female. You'd want to take pre-mo over a master, right? Yeah. I mean, I used to like pre-mo. I thought it was pretty good stuff. And then here's another problem. I think you're pretty hard for us to get real pre-mo. If you're not getting it from somewhere real. And I don't think either one I'm just going to think pre-mo's I would take pre-mo over a master arm basically because it just seems in my opinion. It'd have worked better, but I don't think you're setting the world on fire with each one either one. Right. Exactly. There are small party equations. But definitely your female you take pre-mo over a master arm course. But yeah. I see master arm there with him. See if you agree with me or not. I see master arm more as a like an addition to your testosterone dosage, basically, to make your testosterone dosage more efficient. You know, better that sort of thing. I don't pre-mo have used even within the last couple years. And I when I say I revisited using it because I had used it in well over ten years. And I didn't really like it then, but I thought, you know what? I'm going to get around. I'll come back to it. I'll see how it goes. And I went six or seven hundred milligrams with it. And honestly, and I did it the right way in the sense that again, coming back to variables. I was already running a cycle and I had felt like I had been on that cycle for a little while. So I added the pre-mo to the cycle to see if I would notice any different. Didn't change anything else. And literally noticed nothing to the point where after eight weeks, I'm like, there's no sense doing this at a hundred. Make per mill. This is pretty voluminous. I'm not getting anything out of it. I'm going to go out and didn't notice a difference either. And I do feel. I'm going to be taking a whiff to, I mean, just saying it to individual drugs. I mean, what are you, what are you taking with, what are you stacking it with, what amounts are you taking? I really don't see it off season use for a mail for either one really. Yeah, that wasn't off. I don't want to do it. But I will say, I still expected to to feel something with an increase because I wasn't running a ton of stuff at that time anyway. I mean, I agree with you that there are other, you know, the other compounds factoring it. But I know this once I pulled it out and I replaced it with NPP within two, two and a half weeks. Notice the difference. So that's what made me go, okay, had I not noticed the difference, changing it to another compound that I may not have thought, okay, maybe I'm just maxed out on my, you know, my milligrams right now and anything additional is going to help. But I noticed the NPP kick, but did not notice anything from the premium. It could be argued like you said, could be, but at the same time, you know, you make it a good point too that you do have to make sure that you're actually getting legit, you don't make sure you get to look at it anything these days. And you're whether it's an of our windstrawler or pre-more, whatever the deal is. But I feel pretty confident. I think most people do, but I've had my, I don't want to give away too much information, but I'll just say that I trust that the things that I get are legit. That that I don't worry about and I'm in a position where I don't have to worry about that very often. It could of course happen, but it's not anywhere near its life is if I were just randomly picking a sore soft at the internet and going that route. Here's a fun one. Would you rather eat Jenny Craig's meals? Oh, I don't feel like that. Well played. Yeah, it's well played. To diet for a show or do all of your cardio as Thai bow with Billy Blanks? Jenny Craig, Jenny Craig. I'm going Jenny Craig. I don't know Billy Blanks. This is he a trip I take. Oh God damn, for real? Billy Blanks is a lot of life. What is it? Yeah, it's like Thai bow, right? Yeah. It's like that boxing shit. Yeah, the informational. You go with Jenny Craig meals. You could always pull the carbs out or whatever if you need to get leaner something. You're going to get leaner something. You have a deal with anybody who's had a small, intestine bacterial overgrowth. No. I don't think so. I've dealt with a lot of shit so I may have but I don't recall now. Yeah. Small intestine bacterial overgrowth. I don't think so. Well, all right. How about some. No, there are a question in there or is it just asking if we have? Yeah, basically. Okay. All right. Um. Titus elbow rehab. Oh, that active release. Yeah. It's moving to avoid, too. Let's see other part. Yeah. Well, that one's easy. Any any exercise that you're a TATESATED? I mean, I'm not trying to sound like a dick, but anything that exercise. It's anitis. It's anitis 10 anditis. I call ititis. I just use old man,itis issues because the older trainers tend to deal with it more because we do more work than the younger guys typically. So we ask for the inflammation. Um, BPC. You know, we'll be. Holy shit. Skin just recommended BPC. I'm looking at this. I changed. One of them. Okay. We'll go to that. Let's go to that in our next. I got some stuff. I don't with tennis elbow a few times. Um, I, you know, when I got it when I did a manual labor job. Because I was like, using my hands all the time at work. You're holding her. Yes. And then I was playing tennis and then I was training. So yeah, pull on the, pull on the, uh, the crates. Everything do. Any time you're doing, any time you're using your hands and every. So here's the deal with tennis elbow specifically. So the hand is a very fascinating instrument. Okay. Everything because you could do all sort. It's strong powerful. But you know, it's, it's all you're reading of a teleprompter. Yeah. It also can do very, it's a fascinating. Huh? Can you use like a knife? We got Morgan for you. What you changed this Morgan frame and voice. Everything. You can, uh, you can do, you know, a lot of, it's powerful. But you can do like a lot of intricate things with it. And the reason for that is everything that controls the hand is from here to here. And so, you know, if you think about it, like, think about the way like a puppet would be made. You'd have like all these little strings. You know what I mean? A machine, you know, and that's exactly what that is. Everything that controls the hand is in the forearm. And so if you overstress your grip, then you end up getting that inflammation. And if it's on the top, that's tendonitis. And, um, yeah, definitely air-topped bottom. Bottom would be golfers elbow. Right. But that's what it is. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You get the top, I meant to say that's tendon elbow. The bottom being golf elbow. You know, any type of like really deep therapy. You can do it yourself too, because it's something you can reach. You know what I mean? So you can really actively work that it's getting the inflammation down number one. So ice repeated ice, like 20 minutes on, or you can take like, you can take ice cube and wrap it up in a paper towel, so you can hold it. And then put that bear ice on the spot in like really dig in and massage it. Um, you know, and sets. That's going to help temporarily. So you do those two things. BPC would be really beneficial. I think you're right on that. But the other thing is is that you need to strengthen up your grip because this happened because your grip was being overused to begin with. So you need to rest it. The worst move for tennis elbow is arm out palm down. So like a front dumbbell raise, you know, up like this. That's the worst possible thing that you could do for it. But there's obviously a lot of other shit. I would also use straps for anything you can use straps on. I would, I mean, realistically, you've got to take time off. You got to get the inflammation down in the only way you can do that is by taking a little bit of time off. If Scott Stevenson's watching, he would say acupuncture too. He said that you can fix it right away with acupuncture. So there is that. I don't mind one time. Yeah. Work. So those are a few things. Um, and I'm supposed to ask the next question. But I was busy thinking about that shit. So, all right, we had a bunch more stuff. So, um, about if someone were to play it safe, just test in Primo for a few cycles, can he come out with no long-term health issues? I'm not sure. Yeah, I can't say that. Why's that? We're not health professionals. And I would not, my conscience won't allow me to do that. I do, nobody can really say what will happen to somebody. I'm not sure if they're pretty existing issues. If they're predisposed to issues, it's just, it's too hard to say. And I don't want to say no. No, I can say this. Probably relatively mild compared to other things. But that doesn't mean that you're not going to come out with issues. I can't, I can't say that. Yeah. I think Scott said the same thing. Once you suppress HPTA, there's no guarantee it's coming back. Even though a typical, I'll go on record and say, even though it typically does, even if you beat the shit out of it. There are also infernists, people in their early 30s who have never done a testosterone cycle in their life. And don't know because they haven't had blood work because they don't do steroids. That their testosterone is already in the tank. So here's what happens sometimes, too. You're in your early 30s. You've never done blood work before. You do your first cycle. And then all of a sudden you come off in your testosterone eight weeks later, as in the shitter in your blaming steroids left and right. When you don't even know if your testosterone levels were normal prior to taking the cycle. Skip it. There's a lot of variables. BPC. I want to know if BPC would help with chronic inflammation from injections. Speaking of BPC, I'm talking about debilitating sornus that oftentimes lasts for a week. Actually, that was sent to me by 10. I don't know his last name. But he wanted us to answer that. He said, I know that you're not hemorrhaging. I know that you're not the expert on BPC because you haven't used it before. But both scots probably could respond to that. By the way, I think you're a genius. I'm just, you know, I'm just finished up the tight in fairness. I think you're a genius. I know you've been doing it for a long time. You're very good at it. You're very good at it. You're very good at it. I'm not done. Arguably a savant. That's clean. I call you savant the other day. Remember that? Yeah, let's not go overboard, can. I mean, I appreciate the thing there. But so we'll give Ken a shout out. Thanks for watching, Ken. So what is it, you're a shenny sornus? Yeah, he wants to use BPC for injecting sornus. I'm wondering if you can explain it more to me. So I'll explain it just so you guys understand. It is chronic and debilitating sornus from gear that would make you think that the gear was bad. But the gear is bad because the gear has been changed to different. And different. Yeah, not only different compounds or not even different vows, but from different places. Like, so it's not a, it's not a, the gear itself. It's just that it's almost like the body is already in a very inflammatory state for whatever reason. And when I taught, when I'm saying inflammation, I'm talking about maybe one, one and a half mill and it ends up being debilitatingly sore for like almost six days to the point where the muscle of almost can't even be used in the process during that sornus. I don't think VPC would work on that because VPC, you know, VPC is actually natural. I'm telling you the acid in your gut. It only affects, it only affects, the only thing it enhances is the midesomogery of parodermondens. And it's not for general spornus. It doesn't have anything as you affect on your, on your muscular, on muscles, just on tendons and legaments. Okay, what was the inflammation because by none of us are doctors. Here's what I would say, did it just start as always been like that. Been like that for three or four months. Probably the carrier will change. Different sort different from, but from different sources completely different sources just to eliminate the gear actually. Now it could be that by the end of the year. Yeah, yeah, it could be. But think about the volume, the volume isn't very high. Because some people, I mean, F O O E. A lot of there's people that have that same reaction for O O E. Yeah, so that could be that mean, is it asking if it's, if you know him asking it's real clear looking. I mean, I know him relatively well. Yeah, I'm great. It's a great pseudo. I was going to know it. So I mean, what if the oil was consistent the whole time and they'd use the same source and the same oil for say three years. Would it all of a sudden, I mean, I know that it could all of a sudden become an inflammatory issue. What I'm wondering is if there might not be not only did I have the question about the BPC, of course, helping it out. But the other question being is there potentially because I think there could be an inflammatory situation in the body that is not really caused by the gear, but the gear is just I was wondering about the There's an issue that I was thinking. Of course, your body can, you know, you're about you can become allergic to things that you're not allergic to like refers to after your life. I mean, it's not common for people to get that, but usually it's a carrier of the issue they've switched. I mean, intensity switched brands. I mean, I see if that happened to me, I think the gear might be a dirty too, but it's prying it. I mean, it could also be the how it's how it's suspended. So they put in a little little more, you know, what what what what what what are the ratios of the compounds that that they're putting in the product, you know, is there more, you know, Yeah, it's not ridiculous. I got a backup for just a second because I'm not sure if I caught this, the one part completely correct. So is it all the same brand or this is over the course of a number of brands? This is, I assumed, first time when they told me that it was the same gear, the same brand, then they told me that they had switched to not just one different brand from somebody else. But switched it twice and all three times had gotten the same response. That's why I think it's unlikely that it's an oil issue. Yeah. And unlikely, our it's pretty obvious that it's not the one type of gear, or sometimes you might have a bad bio, or let's say you're using the HP and you didn't know that it had crashed a little, it was starting to crash a little bit or you're at the bottom of a vile and there was something. But that it's been going on for so long that it's almost getting to the point where here's an example. An injection of one mill ends up seeping, you know, a seeper we've talked about seepers before it won't even stay in the muscle and it comes out and then the injection site and all around it is in flame for, you know, another four or five days on top of it. And it's not just dealt it's like ya all sites everywhere. Dude, I wonder, you mentioned is it him. I wonder, I wonder because here's the thing too, like my allergies will be better sometimes than others. It's not necessarily that there's more of a like I get a dust allergy. It's sometimes I'll deal with dust all day long. It's not a big deal other times. I, you know, go to move one thing in the basement and then I'm like all my eyes everything are all inflamed. The way I understand it is that if you look at inflammation and if you had a bucket in front of you and Victoria actually is the one that helped me understand this. You have all these different things that kind of, you know, add to that bucket. And so if that bucket's already full and then I have something else, it just there's that one thing, it's enough to overflow the bucket. I wonder if his bucket's just overflowing right now if he needs to reduce inflammation from this, this and this, you know, it's just sleep, you know, how it's stress levels, all that stuff. What else is going on in his life. Is he borderline over train right exactly. I think you have other nagging like, oh man, you know, the knee is bothering me. There's inflammation there. There's inflammation, out inflammation in the wrist that can't be explained things like that. At that point, I'd feel like BPC would be abandoned, you know, because it's like at the end of the day you just have to get that inflammation down, you know, maybe it could help in that process though. I wouldn't, I wouldn't take the BPC in order to keep taking the shots. You know what I'm saying? Right exactly. And that's a very good point. I was like something going on with him. I mean, obviously your body, you know, your puncturing your body with a needle. So your body, you know, it can, it can, if it doesn't, it doesn't, it doesn't have any exaggeration to stuck into it. It can reject that compound. I mean, I don't know the whole scientific reason, but if he's bounced around with different compounds and he knows it's not a certain. I would tell him step back and look and see if they're all having the same curial. It's different. The reason FLA, either something you can actually smell it. It's not written on the label. Oh, yeah. It's kind of like it kind of is kind of industrial smell to it kind of. And, you know, that could be it, but if not, then I think like Scott said, I think it'd be something to him. All right. How about, let's see. Uh, if you had to add more weight to any gym machine, this is the fun one. What would it be? Oh, the hammer inclined press. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because I can put four on each side with a little 25 barely hanging on and nail those things out. You kidding me. You told me we got to get you those dusty hand shot plate extenders for a year. Did I just try this claim? Oh, right now I probably couldn't. I mean, I would put, it's not too long. A couple of years ago would put four, forty five's on and you could hang like a 25 on there and like take the little collar thing and barely hold it on. Yeah. Not got 12, 15 reps with it. How about you skip it? If you had dead, wait to anything. Well, I haven't maxed out a machine yet quite frankly. So I don't think I have to worry about that. I'm not training with dusty hand job. I don't think it was over here. I honestly, I can't think of, I'm trying to think there's got to be something that I could max out. But I can't think of one. I'm not maxed. Legs lead. I ain't a leg press. No, no, no top pole. Just two side poles. Yeah, I'm not maxed and I don't think of leg presses either. I'm not my child. I'm this one. I was at this gym up in the U.P. as we call it, the upper peninsula, your in Michigan. This dude, Joe's gym. I met Joe. He's the owner of the gym. Really? Yeah. He retired corrections officer. Lives up there in the U.P. Really cool dude. Like I talked to him for forty minutes. He had fabricated all sorts of stuff in his gym. Little tidy place would paneling. You know, all these fabricated machines. He had a chest press that would select or ice chest press that went to 400 pounds. That mold school ones do. Sometimes I pull, you ever do an old school preacher girl and you got like three plates on there and there's like, 20 more plates. Who in the world is that? Who is your biggest ever in American Baita? I could feel like a 25 when you saw it. It was tough. Yeah. I'm like, who the fuck is this thing all the way? You can buy a C. 245 on them. I want to find this guy. That's girl. I think wait for selectorized equipment like 30 or 40 years ago. They must have been dirt cheap because they just put a ton of them on there and figured, fuck it. They're not that expensive. We're just going to put them on there. All right. What else do we have here? Oh, okay. So he's not doing a show, but he's heading to the beach. Advice on drying out one week out from hitting the beach trying to look my best out there. Meach including alcohol. Yeah. It's a good question because you might mash it up in one hour. You got to be really careful trying to drink. I can't say people want to have made that mistake of drying out to go to the beach. Yeah. And then you want to even not party, but if you've gotten party on top, you're going to pay the pipe or baby. Yeah. Because you know, salt water drives you out. You're in the sun. And you're not used to being with the firm with the Mexico one time that is best ripping shape ever. And decide to take a couple of dyes eyes before I went and did. I paid the price hard the first couple days. It was not pretty. And dry now to week before you're that there's I mean, if you were to dry out, you would dry out, you know, a day or two before and then you're going to look your best for a day or two. And then as soon as you start taking in water after being in that dry, you're going to blow up like a puffer fish. You're better off really just and I not just to the guy asked in the question here, but to anybody who goes this route. You're better off just going lean, taking in moderate amounts of water while you're out in the sun and everything else. And then just eating moderately, but then at night. And I'm kind of given away what I do when I used to go on cruises with the kids. Because I didn't want my, you know, my just ended gut out and so I would eat much lower volume for like breakfast and lunch. I make sure I get enough water. And then I'd have a bigger meal at night because then if I was descended, I was going back. And nobody would see me because I wasn't walking around with my shirt up and then the next day I get up and I would have cleared all that food and I wouldn't go crazy at night. But I'd have, you know, me on pretty good sized meal, maybe a dessert and get up and do the same thing the next day. And at least that way I stayed in relatively good condition the whole time that I was there. I think you're better off doing that because you're going to rebound at some point. And then you're going to look worse and then you're going to feel like you look even worse because you're not training and because it's not your typical diet and that sort of thing. So, drying out a week before don't do that. Even if you are going to drought do it a day or two before, but it's still dangerous like F2H said you're in the sun. You're going somewhere that you're not used to being in the sun. You're going to, if you get burn at all, that's going to help you hydrate your salt water. Yeah. I mean, I'm going to tell you dude, I'm going to tell you, I mean, is he, is this a question is called in or? Yeah, it's on. Well, I rolled down the King of Koon one time. I was ripped. It hasn't great shape. I've got to go and on to combat as I had spread went abs around on yards. I rolled up in this hot tub when I got all these girls very bad ass right about 15 minutes. I was going to pass out and I can hardly get out of the hot tub because I was cramping so bad legs and my calves. So look at dead jellyfish flop outside there. Yeah, I didn't work out too good. So I'd say just go as you are. Yeah, yeah, I think, you know, there's a difference between looking good for summer and getting on stage. Like, and I'd even say, I handle the whole thing different. Like, here's something I've gotten into is that I would have a thought that somebody who's like just looking to get in good shape and they want to run a cycle for the summer. They're going to do like a cutter. I like master and innovate because it's something that you don't have to take a lot of low volume basically. And it's something you could run that for eight, ten weeks versus the guys who are like, and then I'm going to take the wind stroke tablets and you know, it's like things that the way that I get ready. When you're thinking about getting ready to look your best for a show, you're playing an unlooking your best for one day. You know, like one hour of one day versus you like you guys are saying, if you couldn't just kind of like look good in general, I mean, that really is if you're on gear. You're probably putting a lot of attention into your physique. You're probably going to look better than most people on the beach and at least hopefully you're going to look better and most people do them beach anyway, right? Well, if you're out of the stars and you're not in water. So I'm in salt water going to dry you out. You may take a day or two out there, but get in the ocean enough and get out of the sun and you will dry out like you never thought you could. You'll have veins everywhere if you're leaning off the like you said the sun, the salt water, you're not going to take in and more water than you're going to sweat out anyway, at least while you're at the beach. So you're going to stay you're going to look pretty damn good. And I think you touched on a good point too, Scott, when you said that you're going to look better than most people, even if you lose five more pounds of body fat, no one's going to notice a difference. If you were carrying five more pounds of body fat versus not you're either in relatively good shape or you're not because the average person is just going to know. Oh, wow, he's in good shape. And here's what's even more important. And I noticed the shot to most people's ego. When you see somebody look at you at the beach and that you might even think, oh, yeah, and maybe they're impressed with how you look. I promise you and I know this hurts the ego, but two minutes later, they don't fucking remember you. They don't care. They don't give it shit. They were impressed for like a minute. Yeah. And then they're doing something else. They don't give a fucking doesn't make up their day. That's really good. Right. And then they'll remember you for a while. Right exactly. Yeah. Now, if you're going down there to get laid, that's a little bit different, but I still wouldn't go with die as I'd. There's a couple jokes here, but I'll leave them out. I got some pictures that trip because we walked down to like past of a zoo, because of locals beach. Yeah. And we were on out there as me and other dudes was pretty big. And they were all all the locals were running out when I take pictures with us, you know, supposed to like double biceps like calm us, our noodle didn't. Anyway, we were big as those guys. You know, I mean, it was just kind of funny. And we did look the best there. You can't take some of you walk down the locals beach. You can't you can. You will be the best looking dude there. All right. We actually had two questions that were the same. I have one here on Instagram. I deal weight per week to gain while bulking. And then Ron here, who's watching in a live feed says, what's a good weekly monthly amount of weight during a bulk for a 200 pound male. 20% total. So, 220, you're 200 and you get 220 every week. No, never week on total. So, say two pounds a week. I don't have two pounds. I would have, I would have quoted it one or two myself. But again, it depends on body fat percentage and stuff like that, because, you know, here's another caveat. You could gain a pound a week. And if you're not insulin sensitive and you're not growing on, your diet isn't there. You could literally gain 18 pounds of fat and a couple pounds of muscle. So, you know, there's just, there's a lot of factors there. One of these guys, the guy who was on Instagram, he's a client of mine. And he had been, he came to me, he wanted to diet down. And we, he got decently lean and we decided we're like, why don't we turn this around, man? Why don't we, you're very lean now, you know, like you could obviously, you could be leaner, but you're not getting on stage. What if we were to, you know, turn this into a growth phase, maybe add it a little bit of supplementation now that he hadn't had been used in before. And the thing is, though, is that he had to be like on a keto diet to make this to get leaner. Like he, his, his, like he's not very carb receptive, you know? So, we're turning it around and we're bringing carbs in now. But he's an example of like, his response of how he's going to grow is going to be very different than like, if you're going to have skip. You know what I mean? Like you had to carbs really well, you'd turn around, you'd probably be up, you know, eight pounds from dieting in the first week. Just didn't volumeize, you know what I mean? Right, fill a world. Yeah. Yep. I was like, use that like 10% rule. So, you know, if you're 190, what's 10% of 190? Eighteen pounds. Yeah. So, you don't really want, I don't want you to exceed 209. That's when it starts to get counter for the vast majority of people. Here's a good one. Should leging body parts be trained with a higher frequency? It's actually a really good question. It is. My first move is to actually decrease depending on the muscle group. But let's just say for the sake of because arms are always, I want my arms to grow. And what happens when you watch arms grow, you end up training a more frequently. And what you're really doing is they weren't growing typically, not all the time. But typically, they weren't growing to begin with because they were over trained. So then you're training a more and they're becoming even more over trained. Arms are, they get a lot of indirect movement or work from the other movements like chest pressing and back pulling. So a lot of times when you cut the frequency, you end up without even meaning to growing and progressing because of the increased recovery. Always go that route first. Now if it's legs or something, then you have to take a look at the intensity of the volume, whether they're recovering, things like that. Major muscle group sometimes you can kick it up a little bit. But the larger majority of this, what comes to things like chest versus legs. Legs a lot of times because they're hard to fucking train balls out. A lot of times legs can handle more like they might not be trained in hard enough, but chest, thighs, tries. Those things most people will pound the go to failure and end up doing too much work. This tell my clients, I tell my friends, I tell people in the gym. If you're not training, if you're training chest to failure, you're asked better be training legs to failure. Because if not, then you have an imbalance and effort and an imbalance and intensity. So a lot of times that kind of wakes up and goes, oh shit, I'm not training legs hard enough. And typically that's the case. So it depends on the muscle group, it depends on whether you, I would start, I'll leave it at this. I'll start with cutting back first to increase recovery because if you can train more frequently, then you need to have better recovery. So you should already be growing anyway, just not growing enough to be able to increase frequency. So, what you got Scott? Well, I mean, that's the first step to look at how are they trained before. So, I mean, if you're doing, you know, if you're doing like 150 work insights from biceps and you think you should increase the frequency, well, the frequencies are already prompt. Except said, but if you're not doing anything for like two sets or something, we have to hire a frequency to be relevant to what you're doing. But in general, most people over trained, especially small muscle parts, but I disagree with skip. I think you should train chest back and thighs and not train your legs and that's just right. All right. I've got two things. First things get by took your advice. You probably don't remember giving me advice, but I took advice. We talked about this. We talked about our laging arms a little while ago. So, what are the wrong advises? I just want to make sure. That's yet to be discovered. We'll find out because I'm still doing it. But so, I've been doing push pull legs and with that, my arms have not been getting as much attention. Like every time I train, it's like back gets hammered really hard. Biceps are a mild afterthought. Chest gets hammered really hard. Shoulders, they're kind of a little attention and then arms, triceps are mild afterthought. So, I wanted an I asked you guys, I was like, well, I'm already doing very low volume and you were like, it's easy. You just need to put priority on your arms. So, I actually, I've been for the last several weeks now. I've changed my routine to push pull arms legs. This is my split. I think it's hard to tell. Obviously, I have more inflammation in the guns now, but I think that's what I've been. In the gun. Have you ever ever ever ever ever ever been? No, I'm afraid to be disappointed. I'd be sad, you know what I mean? Do you register? I'm gonna say, is I wonder how he's training this leg and body part, because I'll tell you what I feel like what I have discovered is that, you know, people are like, well, my legs genetically are weak, or, you know, my back is genetically weak. My chest is genetically weak, and then you discover like, oh, but you have really good shoulders. And you're pressing with them every time you bench press. It's like, another factor would be before you start changing the volume. If it, what you're doing isn't working, then maybe look at what you're doing, the meaning the technique. You know, we all think that like, you know, you maybe kill in it every time you train chest, but if you're not training, if you're hitting your shoulders, you know, you're not hitting the chest. Then you've got to, you know, you've got to problem. I wouldn't do more of that. You know what I mean? Right. So, well, if something isn't great, you make a very good point. Something isn't growing. That was laugh when people say, well, you know, no matter what I do, you haven't done everything. Don't kid yourself. Yeah. It's very, very rare for someone to have done everything in exhaustive, because they don't have the knowledge and the knowledge base to be able to cover all the options that they think what they really mean is. My legs aren't growing as easily as everything else. Yeah. So, exactly. It's important to know the difference when it comes, you know, especially with legs and things. A lot of times, you know, I'd be surprised if someone had lagging legs and they've really focused on and focus on the training, focus on optimizing everything for a year and couldn't make dramatic changes with that body part. I just, I would find that very, very difficult to, even with, I don't want to say with shitty genetics, but even with mediocre genetics. I would find that difficult to believe. Alright. The canics is huge. Mechanics are huge, like you said, doing everything the right way and it's very difficult for us because we're not able to demonstrate. I mean, I could talk about, and I, this is part of the thing that I like with one-on-one clients. I can pass on so much information to them because I'm there to demonstrate and show them. But on a show on a podcast like this, you can't, you can't demonstrate those things and discuss those things. It's very difficult even with online clients without video to show them to describe how to do something correctly. Because not only do you need to describe it, they need to understand it and do it, but you need to be able to look at it and watch them do it and say, no, here, twist this or pull their arm or change their, their angle or their grip and adjust things and then it's like, oh shit. Okay, yeah, not, I totally noticed the difference. Things like that. Yeah. Alright, any changes to skip loading on a D-load week since your lower volume will use less glycogen stores? Yep. Yep. If you're going, yeah, typically if you're going into a D-load week, you're not going to need to load as much because your, the demands for that stored glycogen the following week while you're cruising is not going to be very high. Now, coming off of the D-load week, you can see how they responded and sometimes something as simple as hunger and information is down there, wait'll be down. So they're thinking, oh, well, shit, you know, I'm going to get a good skip load. Typically, you're not going to need it coming off of D-load week either, but if you're coming back into a blast phase and you want to make sure that you don't come into that blast phase week and not fully loaded or glycogen stores. If you're glycogen stores full, then you would take it back up. But tiptoes, so that one's kind of to be determined on an individual basis, but I would say the large majority of time, not out of ten times coming off of that last. Blast week going into a cruise week, you typically will need to cut it back because you're just going to end up with glycogen that you're not going to use. Got more pre-must up. This is like the third question we've had about pre-mode a day. Any helpful info on pre-mode dose, how long to take it, what to take in conjunction. It's pretty basic one. That's pretty well. I'm going to guess, yes, I never see the oral around anymore. Yeah, I never do either. What's the first one? I'd say this guy because we've talked about it a couple of times today. Number one is make sure you have a real deal. What's the real question? Helpful info on pre-mode. Yeah. Dose and how long to take it. What to? Two to one pre-mode test. But I don't think that's what you could do, but I mean, it's good. Well, no, I'm just, that's a pretty big ratio. I can't say that it's wrong. I just, I was surprised that you'd go two to one. You mean two to one pre-mode with half the test or do you mean, it's weak. I mean, look, I always describe it as weak. And I know this isn't exactly correct, but to try to explain it to clients and explain to people, I just call it a water-down version of DACA. And I know that that's not the exact way or the best way to explain it, but it's just a water-down version. It's just a weak to me, a relatively weak. If you take 10 of the main AAS out there available for, say, a male in the, in the offices, or even pre-contest for that matter, honestly, I put pre-mode about nine. I mean, it, as far as ninth on the list, maybe to tenth on the list. It's, it's just not very strong. There are other compounds that are better and you'll get more, yeah, you'll get more out of it. Now, pre-mode, I think, comes into the picture if you have things like, while I respond poorly to this, and I have pro-lackan issues, so I try to stay away from Decken MPP, and I have this, and yes, I have high estrogen, so I try not to run as much tests, and trend makes me not sleep anymore. I mean, if you start eliminating the better compounds, then pre-mode look better and better, then it's more of an option. But if you don't have issues with those better compounds, honestly, run the better compounds. And then you don't have as much volume to have to inject either, because pre-mode's going to be on typically 100-meg per mill, where you're going to get, you know, 250, 250, 300-meg, sometimes EQ, I mean EQ's roughly typically 3 to 400-meg all the time now. So, you know, less volume is always good too, we were just talking about inflammation earlier with, you know, aluminum shots and things like that. Try to get out of it with less volume if you can, if you take something that's a little bit stronger, it's going to be better than you get away from pre-mode. Pre-mode's kind of like, I don't want to say a last resort, but if you have to eliminate other compounds, then pre-mode becomes a little bit more appealing. There's this in the Roman size, much, and it's kind of weak. It's kind of like a weak testosterone proby-nate. Very nice. You know, it's like the little cousin. Yeah, I don't think you see much. I mean, it's a little problem. If you don't have problems with, you know, testosterone, the Romanizing, or, you know, deal with it, okay, I mean, you might just take tests and just like, take pre-bomb. Yeah, yeah. I like that Jenny Craig question that was fun. I didn't answer the ed weight to any machine. I think I'm with you, skip. I can't think that I've, like, maxed a machine out. Yeah, and now I can max them out when it's on the strife, three point thing, and I put them on the low, because I tend to like the low point weight load of a strife machine. Do you know what I'm talking about? Yeah. Yeah. Okay, I like the low end because it's eat like the leg extension, it's easier on my knees. I get it better. I get it better. I get it better. I get it better. I get it better. So yeah, you gotta put more weight on it. But I mean, I guess I could argue that I'm maxing out the low position. No one's going to be impressed by that. I'm not going to say that. That's a low position. Same with the leg curl, too. I like the contracted position. I like to not put that heavy stress on the stretch position, because of vulnerability in that position. But that's just me. So there really isn't anything I'm maxing out either. I'm with you. I love to say that I was, but the truth really is, is I'm not. Yeah. All right guys, well that's about all we got here. Scott, we had so much stuff. Last episode, people loved the gun content. Blood sweat and guns. They were like, they all started asking gun questions. In fact, if you guys have any gun questions, you ask them literally right now. You've got the empty empty. Angie. Yeah. Yeah. I got ammo. Yeah. I hear there was some. I didn't watch it. Somebody sent me a video and they're like, hey, I hear all the gun laws are going to change. Have you heard anything about that? Yeah. I don't watch the news. Okay. I don't watch the news either. I tried to do this. You're just getting proper gand of when one's on the other. Yeah. Wait, the girls actually have a chance to see. Oh, it's all just. Every day, the part of the divide in the team, you know? Yeah. That's home defense firearm. What if you got that works? Well, if you're going to go out and buy something for home defense, what should you buy? I mean, this is going to. Okay, I'll go the next thing. Whatever you can operate, you know, efficiently and well. Yeah. If you're really good with your pump shotgun from your kid, I say rocket. Because if you think I got a handgun because people say I have one, but you got crappy fundamentals. You can't hit ship. It's not going to do any good. So whatever you have that you're competent with that you can perform with and execute with and includes loading malfunction drills, you know, presenting the gun, you know, aiming, hitting your target. I think it's I think it's overrated. The chapter of a sort of kind of, I mean, there could be situations worse. One's better than the other. But just remember if you're going to get the gun fight, bring the biggest gun you got. Very much as always a plus to who we actually got. We got a question. What is your dream gun? Oh, I'm doing M134 mini gun. Dude, he answered that so fast. I know, right? Like he was waiting. That, in fact, maybe that's an alias. He didn't that already. Maybe that's just an alias. He put that question in there. That's the coolest thing I've ever shot. Yeah. Oh, you shot one. Oh, yeah. That's the, that thing I've seen that on YouTube, the mini gun. That's like, there's like a switch to turn it on. And it's like, it's electric. Yeah, it's like you would think skip that like you were about to operate some sort of like machine in a car manufacturing plant. Like that's the way to hand gun. I mean, what the hell is it? It's a mini gun. What the hell is a mini gun? It's a barrel gun. It's got like the 134 has six barrels. It shoots like 6,000 rounds of minute. Oh, like right now. You use out a crow system. So you don't have to man the gun. You look through a flea camera and you've got our remote control. Get on the camera. Yeah, it's on the on the top of the business. I've had him for a while. Wow. On top of vehicles. So the turret gun is not out exposed. Huh, that makes sense, man. So what's it called? That's a Dylan M134 mini gun. But G makes a new one now too. It's coming out. So it shouldn't this one shouldn't. You've got to be the answer for the best self defense in home fire. You need like six of us to carry it around. Ah, fine. You just have it mounted in your bedroom. I'll send you a video or something once you get in. Okay, yeah, send me one. Yeah, so the part are our our our our enemies don't like it. Because you put tracer around in like every fourth round. And they call it the breath of Allah. Because it's all right. What do you know? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What do they have on everything? Yeah, you know, patchy's atens. Your reason is the only enemies the denies say it's has. Germost. That's not fair. I like with Tony Miller said, Tony Miller said, do you have that on your vision board? Yeah. I thought you're going to say like a shotgun. That's how I figured you're going to say. For for best home self defense. I mean, there's there's I mean, it's whatever you're wherever you can, you know, whatever you're good with, where you can you can you can you know, if you're really good with a handgun, you have good fun of miles and you should. That might be the best thing for you, but I always say people always think, oh, I've got to have this guy have that, but you got to have something you can operate in your vision with. And then you can, you know, load work malfunction drills that you can present the gun. You can you your accurate with it. And that that can be a lot of things, you know, I mean, it doesn't have to be, I mean, I have personal preferences, but my personal preference is we based off of what I, you know, I'm really confident with. Yeah, you know, which you probably could handle, like you could probably do whatever you need to with anything. Yeah, I mean, I mean, this is a really, I'll take something over nothing. Yeah, I'll take a single shot, shotgun over nothing. Yeah, I had one of those when I was a kid. It was a bolt action for 10 single shot shotgun. It was my, my dad's. How about how about pump shotgun with a pistol grip and a modified choke loaded with buck shot? If it works for you, here's one thing I kind of, when I talk to you about this, is you, it's preferable that you have a firearm that you don't have. To like work the action on now we're in it. You could have to shop a pump shop on the loaded. I do advocate if you're going to have a gun for home to the fence, but there are situations as a personal decision, but you should have the gun loaded in the game. Yeah, you're ready to go. So you want to go and get up and go to work with. You walk up a two in the morning, someone's breaking your house. You know, you need to have something that's it's ready to go. Yeah, and that's why I don't really like safety's on pistol's and stuff, but some people to personal choice, you know, and they need to train with the safety on when they're training so they don't have to take it off when they have to use it. But I like things that look quiet because you know, if someone, you set your lighting up in your house correctly and you have a plan if someone to come in your own. You don't actually go play seal team six and dive through the house. You just fall back to the bathroom, hold the bedroom door, better to ambush than be ambushed. You know, where are they going to take your TV? Yeah, who cares? Yeah, you mentioned that on we actually had gotten off the air couple episodes to go, I don't have that set up. You were saying like put a night light by like, you know, where it will backlight them basically and then you're in the shadows. So we just put a back a little like for the babies, a little baby light and light, just put a mic outside your bedroom door. You know, fire entrance of your front door, things like that, your flood lights coming in. That way everything's backlit coming into you. You know, you're in your bedroom, get up, go in the bathroom, hold the bathroom, do it on the bedroom door. It's dark, it's black, no one's gonna see you in there. Yeah, you know, I think it's foolish to run out. You just say, oh, some of the kind of, and as you have kids, it's a different scenario as well. Things go, if you look by yourself, it's just you and you're significant other and a better sleep and you're not doing yourself. Do me favors, jumping out the house running around because you could, you know, you always want all the advantages you can have. What if I come out of my living room, there's three dudes out there that are on. Yeah, I'm in a three one situation, not a good situation, I don't care how good you are with your gun to be in. So why not just fall back, let him come to you. Do you take your wife with you when you fall back or just fall back yourself? I don't remember. A user has covered. Depends on the life. It's getting, you got going. Oh, I was using subjects. What do you got going on, skip with training? How's that all that going? I've seen some of your clients and stuff you posted. Oh, training's going well. I mean, I want to want to still enjoy. I enjoy very much. I just took out a new client about a week ago. I'm going to stay at five. I'm not going over that because that's I like it. I enjoy it and I don't want to become. I don't want it to get crazy. I'm lying to go and great. My own training is going well. I'm transitioning to TRT. Could be inflammation. Could be not information. Point is, as I'm going to transition to TRT for two or three months. And, um, volume is lowered. Things are going quite well. Legs are coming back. And that's my priority for this year. So I'm really just funny when I get a glute pump. I'm doing a lot of lunges now and things like that where I like I took for granted that I was able to train legs for so long. But now after that injury, I'm getting back into putting more focus and time and attention on planning my leg training more so that I did in the past. And I like it. I think it's starting to pay off. We'll just say I go since only five to where. So is your training personally any different now that you've been training clients in the gym? I'll tell you what's hard. I'll be honest with you. There is one negative to it. The negative is, as I'm in the gym all day, consumed with exercises, reps, planning, programming. You know, someone who does what we do that, if you don't do it, you might not understand how all consuming it is. Even though it's a client of yours and it's like not you. You want everything to be perfect. So your programming each client, much like you would program yourself or what you need. Clearly your program, if what they need. But you're putting in that same effort, if not more, and you're doing that for each client. And by the time you're done and you're going to do your own training, it's almost like psychologically you've been through all these work. Five sessions. Yeah. What helps me now is I don't train in the same place that I train my clients. I train up here now in West Palm with my new training partner. And so it's a different venue. That's what it got so with so many sessions stuff that I actually had to start logging my own pound to just again, because I couldn't remember what I did last time because there's so many exercises running through my head. But when I change to this new gym that I only train myself at, yeah, then I can remember those things again. It doesn't all run together. That part was a difficult adjustment for me because sometimes I'm actually tired psychologically until I get going in my own session and then everything is great. So my training hasn't changed, but there is that added. I spend a lot more time in the gym than I ever have in a very, very long time. Years and years and years. So that is that is different. Yeah, that makes sense. That makes a lot of sense. I feel like my training is changed. I feel like I part of my intensity has gotten more intense because especially if I'm training with one of my clients because I'll do that too. It's like you have to set an example then. You know what I mean? Absolutely. Yeah, absolutely. There's one client right now that I want to train with and we've been trying to hook it up and I was going to go down to my and train legs with him and then he gets to leg because I train later at night. But I'm looking forward to it because he's got me in strength department but I know I can cripple his ass because he's going to want to. He's got that ego in that competitive drive too. So he's going to want to keep up and I'm thinking to myself, I'm going to bury you. You're going to be stronger than I am, but I'm going to bury you by the time you leave. So we haven't had that opportunity to do it yet, but I look forward to it's coming up. It'll be soon. Nice. Get some video of that. Yeah, exactly. Talk about here. All right, anything else before we go, guys? Yeah, thank you, anything. All right. In that case, guys, check out Trinetrician.com. User-coated vices. Great products. You get some additional savings with your user code. Like I said, too, it helps to support our programming. I'm using the Perry MD, Mount and Dog Formula for Interworkout with highly brain sick with Dax during EAA's. I just picked up some additional EAA's. Just like this, I'm still getting the straight raw EAA's. I didn't upgrade to the flavored stuff. And then I just mix in the crystal light. Right. Yeah, it'll work. But I'll tell you, you'll like it. If you get the flavor, there is one more thing I want for Get a do-one to say, happy Valentine's Day to all my side pieces. If I did not contact you today or send you anything, it's an oversight on my part. I apologize and I'll make up for it. And later, day. I surprise Victoria. I sent her some flowers. So did I. Yeah. Oh, she said it. I'm a bitch. I'm a bitch. That's just... I didn't even know what I was doing. Can I check it? He was good. I just realized why he's not talking to me today. It's Valentine's Day. Oh, oh. Yeah. Actually, I set it up for Saturday. I didn't want her to think like that I have to spend half of the day thinking that I didn't say... I wonder, so she already got it yesterday. You know what I mean? Yeah, I was just too age though. You've been married for a long time like I have. I don't know if I can stay really. I'm not trying to take away because you know, your wife may look at it differently. But I always say I'm like my wife is not my valentine. She's my wife. I've been married for 30 years. We'll do something. But it's not this big. I don't... We don't take advantage and I don't like to celebrate home art holiday is where this holiday has been, you know, predetermined to try to commercialize and make it ton of money. You know, so we've been working for a long time. I'm very sure. No, I'll tell you what. My wife is not a big... She's not as big on a deal. She wants to do something. But it's not anything. It's, you know, oh my god, we're not doing anything or we exchange cards and... I can just depend on the wife. Chocolate. Probably. Yeah, I've only got one right now. So I can't compare it to others. Yeah, that's why I asked. Yeah. All right. Okay, guys. We'll get out of here for another episode of Blood Splatoon Gear. Check out teamskip.com. Head on over, like I said, to true nutrition.com. You could use our code, advice us for some savings. Once again, we've got Patreon. I'll put that down in the show notes. If you guys want to help support our programming. And if you're watching this on YouTube, you probably already subscribed. If you made it all the way through this show. But if you haven't, please do because we got several programs coming out each week. All your comments, likes, all that stuff helped a boost us in the algorithm. Guys, we will see you soon. Gentlemen, thank you much as always.

We're doing Instagram questions. I have a bunch from last week that I saved and then Dusty, I know you put up a question box in the night. So I know that we're doing it today. We can't see any other questions. What else is new? Any other news? Let's go on. We don't really have a lot of news except for the, you know, my daughter's already. How many have you happened since the last episode? Not, you know, other than the attack, it just took place because the dog's realized that, you know, two hours ago someone outside. I went to Canada for one day. So that was cool. I had to go pick up some stalls for the wife. It was good. You know, having in a NAMO bar left? I don't want to just aid it. I brought, I brought those back. I hung out with my father in law for the day. It was a very Ontario experience, Ron. It was very like, like, leather and beer and listen to tragically hip albums. Well, they were drinking the beers and we were sitting there, like in the edge, you can picture this, like sitting in a barn and they're at the edge of the barn doors, you know, lawn chairs, just kind of sitting there like this. I tell rifle, occasionally we're shooting a pallet rifle. And we drank some beers and told stories. Well, I didn't drink the beers. I drink water. But you fit right in. It was good. It was good. I felt like I was at home. I was a little more Canadian now. I do. I'm going to show you a dirty, a quote. Regular shoes. Regular shoes. Like crocs. I'm going to take the crocs to the UK, though. They're coming with me. They're the perfect shoe for the plane. Please, please go back. Go back. You can't say regular shoes. What does a regular shoe? What do you mean, like, say like, how do you balance your head? Oh, it's very, like, you bring my neck. We're in Nike's. Yeah. Metcalfewords in my jam. Who are you wearing? Which ones? Metcons. What do you mean? They're wearing their feet right now. Let me see this. No, I have my, these are the Nike Pegasus. These are, these are running shoes. I don't care. Oh, well, yeah. You just bought those. I remember that. Yes. It looks cool. It reminds me of the shoes that people were when I was a kid. Like in the early 80s. Are you faster in those? So much faster. Faster in the crocs. They immediately put them off course you are. Okay. I'm going to talk either. I have something big. I have something big. What's up? I have something big. My feet are killing me. My feet are killing me. No. I don't think I need a different shoe. And my feet kill me in my chucks lately. And I think it's cousin my biking. Obviously, I'm destroying my feet. They don't hurt on the bike though. Like when I go biking, my feet don't bother me at all. But then the next day when I'm like walking around the gym and my chucks, my walking feet are killing me. So I need to, I need to maybe try a different shoe. A different shoe for while you're on the bike or for while you're walking on the gym the next day. No one will choose on the bike and we're in the high top. They're not chucks, but like they're the ones that the thicker ankle pad around the big thicker ankle part. The high pops are kind of like fancy chucks. And they have a little bit of a thicker soul. And I've been riding in those and I love them. They fucking don't even, they don't bug my feet at all. But my, my, my my going put my regular chucks on my feet are killing me now. So I need advice from our listeners on a shoe to try and I got wide feet. Nike's might not be the best bet then because they're a little bit on cloud. There are on cloud. On clouds. On clouds. You've seen them. Got a pull. I'll pull them up. I'm going to show you my shoe too. This is the mapping like crots. That's the mapping. Oh, that looks like a, like a cross trainer. That looks like it's something you could wear for all athlete type stuff. Yes. Oh, what's this? That's why I just told him to get. It is a training. I always fuck up the which way to go on this goddamn thing. Let's see the soul. I need a flat soul though for are you talking about just like to help my feet normal data. This is good for your feet to walk around him. They have different different different ways like it. And I don't. Yeah. Okay. I like a really nice shoe. I don't want to like what they cost. You're in any more. You're going to be mad at me. But because they're like $150 a piece. Okay. A piece. Each shoe. Each. Yes, of the piece. Skies, not the yours. You're left. Both of them say about this. You have to not get the two R's. I thought it would be like RR. Like a more careful and illogical. No. No. No. Yes. Okay. Those are good. We'll take the listeners advice to it. And obviously I don't know if you should. But these I know that's a real risk. I love to tie them either, which is huge for me. I mean, tying shoes. You know, like, crocks for example, either. But you do have to be dazzle them. You do have to work. It's a lot of work. There's a lot of deep things that you have to give up to where crocks. Like you're a soul. And a soul. Exactly. Exactly. I had a couple of this weekend, by the way. And I saw the one you attacked you. Actually, I called them out, actually. I was like, did you? Fucking shoes. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not doc. I think in the future, I'm going to be like, oh, you want a photo cool. Take those off. Yeah. Or you can take them out of the picture. They can be cropped. But you know, I'm always, I'm always a little more worried when I see that they've got the intensity strap around the ankle. Like maybe they're going to run off. That's the sport mode is actually what it's called. Sport mode when you put your extra active sport mode. Yeah, you do. Sometimes I do it while walking around the block. And you just pull that strap to just like turning your hat backwards. No, there's no bending down around. Here's the way it works. Victoria says, hey, Scott, do you want to walk the dogs around the block with me? Because we do that twice a day to get out of the house. Since we both worked for a moment, I say, OK, sure, babe, I'll be there in just a minute. And I already have the crocks on. I make sure I got my gun. Of course, go upstairs. You're going to show it. We began walking around the block and then I say, oh, hold on just a second. You kick it off and use your foot to just push the sport mode. He's, you know, thing back. And then just flip your foot rest. You can adjust it with your foot, just push on it. There's no, yeah, there's no bending. Does that make sure by displaying that in front of her that she doesn't bother you for sexual activity later or something? It's already been done. It's like that was mid-afternoon. We're done with that. Are you? You could serve me to talk about. You started talking about. Look at me different. I need to make sure I lock this back down by showing her that I'm wearing crocks. And already happened before the dog walk. I don't care anymore. You know, for the day. Yeah. I just, sorry, I had to go there. I had to know. Yeah, fuck. It was crocks. I don't even know. Actually, I saw that in a movie. And it was like two sisters. And the younger one looks at it. She goes, oh, I love that shirt. You put on Kevin. It's just, oh, you do. She goes, yeah, is that a thing? So like no one else wants to fuck him. That's cool. That's cool. That's how I feel. All right, it makes sense. All right. Yeah. Sorry. Be careful when you take their advice on what to wear. You don't know what stage you're at. Yeah. That's a good point. All sorts of advice on this show. You know, all sorts of advice. These are even, I love how guys. I love how you and Victoria, you go for like a nice little, you know, romantic dog walk. And like, make sure you get, oh, make sure I got my gun. Of course, any man that's wearing crocks should definitely have a gun. Because they might be, they underestimate him. Because he's like, you know, he walks as a gun. I'm in my gun, crocks. It's a be a criminal. And you like, oh, fuck. Look at this fucking dude. I'm going to take his wallet and the crocks. And he's not running. Because I'm not running, you know, you're in the crocks. You're not running. And he's got a choice, but to stand his ground. Yeah. You have any other options? No. I was wearing crocks. Okay. But you were like, good boy. Oh, that's it. Futter flight. Well, flights not a goddamn option. So cop show up and they see in your crocks. Like, oh, well, he needed the gun. There's no way he could have defended himself. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, that's fantastic. No charges. No charges. Oh, by the way, I have to bring this up another random thing I just thought of. There was a meme yesterday that actually hurt my soul. It said, I find it funny when people hate talking on the phone so much, but love podcasts. It's the same thing, but no one's recording. And I was like, oh, fuck. I just got had. Like, we do this for hours. Yeah. But it did say millenials, which made me feel good because I'm far too old to be that. But, you know, that's funny. It is a same thing. It is not. But it's time. No. I know. I know. I know crocks. Okay. She said no. Sorry. Okay, so I'm getting my questions loaded because I know that you... I know you got a bunch of fresh ones and I still have a bunch too. So you go ahead with the fresh one. Yeah. I'm pulling it right now. Ooh, that's a scared. That's a valid point, man. Okay, let's see here. Bump, a bum. Just a small one. Oh, I got that picture. See, all of Dusty's questions are private questions about smoking cigars and being a stud. Right? Right. That's why he's skipping over them. Is it God? There's one of these that's in another language. Let's look at this here, Ron. This was... Oh, I do want to hit this one. That was somebody. There was. Look at the cross. She's got the crocks on. Oh, it's good. It's good. She even color coordinator crocks with the gray shorts. It's good. I like those crocks. I got to get another pair now, I think. Where are you saying the Dusty? You had a... Did you feel the silence that we both threw on you just now? Sorry, don't care. I'm feeling that strong. You know, in I have my community. My crack community people... The proximity. Are people. Are people. I know they're standing with me. I miss one. So it's all right. Listen, you Democrats do whatever you want. Oh, oh! He's on the right bench. He's like, listen, I've got a good. Okay, I have to do this because this guy actually asked me this last time. And I didn't answer it even on the, I get a lot of questions and I try to answer a bunch, but I keep it under 50 because Actions of happening is Instagram starts deleting them if you go above 50 answers. Yeah. The first one is gone. So anyways, the guy said thoughts on mutants, woke marketing posts pride month, but ignores Memorial Day. The only reason I'm pointing this out real quick is because although I understand the question, it's a Canadian based company. So if mutants were to start hammering Memorial Day, then we got to figure out all the things that are going on in Japan and in Germany where we sell things and in England where we sell things. And I don't, you know, right, the Memorial Day thing, all they have to do is just wait till November 11th in Canada, and then we get remembered and stay and though everybody goes crazy up here. Yeah. Yeah. So I think that's what's being missed is I think this person doesn't realize that it is a Canadian company. And actually it's probably worth it. It's probably worth it. It's worth it. It's probably worth it. It's worth it. And just you don't mention it because I think people don't realize and pride is worldwide. So there's my answer to that. So I don't think it's woke marketing to say that you're down. Because I don't consider myself woke at all and I have many friends that are gay. And it's perfectly fine. So there's, yeah. So you know, one of the answer that just because I thought about it as I wonder if other people think that they think they caught something that they didn't catch, you know? Yeah. Yeah. It would be like if you criticize the British company because they didn't put up a Memorial Day post with July or something. Yeah. But they're worth it. July or whatever. It's like not their holiday, right? I'm more bothered that some Americans don't understand the difference between veterans' name and Memorial Day if I'm be honest. So if that's just me. That's a little bothersome. I'm like, would you know, in a Memorials for anyways, moving on? Don't think that guy that lives down the street, I'm a Memorial Day. So what do you guys do? You also do something. Is November 11th? That's our remembrance day. What do you guys, I don't even know when holiday is fall until they happen to be quite honest with you. But like for example, what I was joking about Ron was we have Memorial Day and we have Veterans Day. And Veterans Day is like if you serve or serve now, that's, you know, thanks to you. And Memorial Day is talking about people who died serving. So that's kind of your remembrance day then. Yes. And geniuses in the US like to go on and have their moment to post. And remember to thank the veterans today and it's Memorial Day. I'm like, you know, get it? I mean, I'm fine with you thanking veterans every day, but you kind of missed the point of this day. You know, so any who. Okay. So I got that dusty. Okay. Let's see your poem. Boom. Boom. Dude, I am like there are a lot of relations. Sagaar. I think it might went out, Ron. My mic. Oh, you're back. You're good. I'm good. I'm good. Um, GH sub Q or I am go. Uh, sub Q. Because it's easier. Oh, Ron. And it doesn't matter. I just, you could just use an insulin deal. It's like that long to stick it anywhere. Get in your body. But yeah, I would do sub Q. There's, I don't know, see any reason to make it complicated. Are we going to denose in September? Yes. Yes, we are. There was a question. When are you in Ron going to come back to denose? Nice. Denose. September for the Arnold UK. We will be there. Nice. Yeah. Oh, this is actually a good one for everybody. What's your favorite part of your day currently? Oh, after the first dog walk, but before the second dog walk. Before she sees the crox, I know what you say. The sheep are getting every day's image anyways. Ron, What if your favorite part of every day comes every second day? Because it is. That's amazing. It's a bit every second or a third day. Every second or third day, we know when you got time. Um, yeah. Okay. My favorite part of I love having my coffee in the morning and just like kind of getting awake and just like pet in the dog saying the morning to the dog, you know, Emily puts my cup of coffee in front of me and gives me a little kiss on the cheek. Oh, that's amazing. Morning. She's been up for a while. She's already done some cardio and, you know, she's wide awake. And I sit there and sit my coffee and sort of like let my senses adjust for a little bit. I'm one of those people. He's coming to life. Yeah. Yeah. And then, you know, after I'm about halfway through my cup of coffee, I get up and make my breakfast and I enjoy my breakfast and then I get to work. You know, but I love breakfast time. I love breakfast. Yeah. Does that make you a morning person? That's funny because I was never a morning person, but I always loved my breakfast. I wouldn't say the run. I see, but I think I think, because once I have breakfast with Ron on the regular on trips, but it's actually what he's saying is very accurate because even though he wakes up, we'll come down and when we first started eating, it's kind of quiet. Yeah. And we're just eating drinking coffee and then it's just slowly. And by the end, Ron and I have spent four to much time eating breakfast and we are not late. And when you get to the show. Yeah. Yeah. Because the conversation started rolling about 30 minutes into breakfast instead of ready to be getting okay. Let's see. What is this terrible for its body when I show, but in all honesty, my favorite part of this is going to the gym. Unless there's something like special occurring, but I really do like that is my time. I think that's how I realize that this is really what I love doing. Yeah. Because I can't imagine, like when people say, oh man, when I need a cruise, it's because my body's broke. I still want to go. And like, it's very, it's a, I think there is, you know, you talked about this a week or two of a Ron, like, when you love training, this is a different thing. Yeah. Yeah. You know, the funny thing that question, I like the question because it forces you to kind of like, think of a time that you love. But the reality is, is that I spend every day trying to keep everything that I'm doing going because I really love all of it. I don't have, I don't have really days that where I do anything that I fuck the next four hours have to do this. Yeah. I don't really have that at all in my day. And I'm just really thankful, you know, like, I'll get up in the morning and I'll drink my coffee and play some guitar for 20 minutes. And then eat my breakfast and then work. But the work is cool because I'm like trying to help body builders and there's a lot of, you know, it's, there's responsibility too. So there's like, it's, if you feel like it's important that you do a good job. And that's a great feeling too. And Jordan Peterson talks about that too, shouldering responsibility and how that, being shouldering some responsibility and taking on responsibilities actually part of what drives happiness. You know, and so there's that, I have an element to that. And then there's people that depend on me at the gym. You know, I've got two great partners that help out with a lot of stuff. But there's stuff I do too. So there's responsibility there. And I enjoy that. And then I get to train. And when I'm training, I fucking just go back to body builder Ron and I have fun. And then sometimes I get to grab my bike. And that's super fun. And it's like, and it's enjoyable and challenges my brain and my body and all that stuff. And then, you know, I love chilling out on the couch at 9 o'clock at night, 10 o'clock at night with Emily and the dog and watching an episode of whatever show we're watching. And just kind of relax in and you know, enjoy the sunsetting now at like 10 o'clock, you know? So it's like, cool. And so my, and then after Emily goes to bed, I ship away on the phone and sometimes I play a bit more guitar now. Like, and someone asked me, I've got several people who like, oh man, how do you fit in all the stuff you're doing? And it's easy cut down on the bullshit that you're doing. Like there's a bunch of bullshit everyone does. They, like, you can easily subtract an hour of nonsense phone time from your day. Yep. Yeah. Every single person has an hour that they waste on their phone at least, at least an hour. And that hour could be done riding your bike or playing your guitar. So it's not that I have all this free time. I'm really busy, but I fit it in like 20 minutes here, 20 minutes there. You know, an hour twice a week on my bike, you know, I just make it work. I just slaughtered in. And do you can just easily, like, look how much screen time the average person has a day, the wasting hours and hours and hours. Don't tell me you don't have time. Same with bodybuilding. I have your own time to prep my meals. Yeah, you do. I used to tell like my employees that were busy or, or, you know, clients. If you really do think your day is completely full, all you gotta do is, you know, take out your phone and when you wake up at the morning tomorrow at 7am, record everything you do between seven and eight. Then eight and nine, then nine and ten until you go to bed and you are going to find hours. Oh, because you know, people don't realize how much, and I think that, you know, the thing I was going to add to you, what you said, Ron, about the screen time, because I'm not against doing anything you want. But one thing I've been working on and is really enhanced life in general is being present and everything I do. So when I'm driving my car, I'm driving my car and I'm listening to my music. I do not, I am not the person who gets on Instagram because the light went fucking red. No, like, like, do what you're doing. It drives me crazy. It's a thing now. Every single person knows this. The light goes green and you have to honk it the guy in front of you who's back on his phone. Because it's crazy. It has to have it. You know, and I just really do think if you become very present, even when you're doing things, if you're hanging out with your kids who are doing that, do that at a hundred percent focus for however long you're going to do it. If you're watching a television show, watch the fucking show. That's how you enjoy things as well and that's why you can also realize, for example, to me, if I'm watching a show and I'm tempted to start getting on my phone or doing something else, then turn the show off because I don't care about. Go do the other thing. There's a lot of research now about how people are frying their dopamine receptors. Just the social media, constant barrage of social media is just frying the dopamine receptors. And that's why people are so addicted to their phone is because it's just constant. Every time they check, oh, there's another like on my photo. Another like on my photo. Someone else commented on my photo and just a constant like dopamine rush of, that's why you know, Twitter, that's how Twitter got so big. I could be seeing how Twitter literally uses the same rewards as casinos like, you know, you open your Twitter and there's a delay. And then you get the notification number. So you get, it's like, pull on every time you open your Twitter, it's like a little roulette. Tell any how much, how many, how many, you know, oh, fuck I got five. And you hit the hit the little heart and you got five responses to your tweet. And it's the same dopamine receptors as a slot machine. And the same thing on Instagram. And we, we, we, we just have to remember that that's happening. And that's why I really love having hobbies. And that's what drives me to do my hobbies is because I get to be present. Completely present in the moment. Like, you know what I mean? And I think that maybe I'm seeking that out to counterbalance, you know, all the other stuff that you have to do to make a living now, you know, with the phones and all the stuff that's also enjoyable about social media too. But I think it's important to have some balance, like, you know, if you're going to be on Instagram a lot and do a lot of social media. Also make sure you have something where you're off your phone. Like, yeah, I don't know. I think that's what I'm trying to do. Like, you should balance because that's, that's why I started putting up the, the, the photo dumps a week ago because I had a lot of people that like, well, it's really easy because all you do is bodybuild. I had that couple clients say that and I was like, Oh, shit. Because I used my social media to only show you things that I assume you're here to watch me do. Yeah, yeah. That's sort of like light bulb. I was like, Oh, that's all you think I do all day. Okay, that's good. And everything else that I do is by choice, it's typically just fun, but I think it's surprising to people and they're like, Oh, you, because I don't even, like, I barely think about bodybuilding. That's all cruise control. I eat because I'm, I've been eating six meals a day for so long that to eat five or so meals a day is very easy. And I train because I like to and there's no other thought about it. Yeah, yeah. So it doesn't take that much time. You know what I mean? So it's like, Oh, God. No, I spend very little time bodybuilding. I still struggle. I still struggle with that. Like what you say, like, Oh, shit, people think this is all I do. So obviously, I've put like my biking and my, you know, I started putting some guitar stuff up stuff up. But stuff up recently, you know, because, you know, I want to, mode it may be motivated other people to do something fun or maybe there's people out there that fucking love the same music is me. So I can connect with them and they're like, Oh, fuck, runs into this music. And then, you know, I get to chat with them. Like it's happens all the time. Like I got all these chat threads with people now that are like, What kind of basis that blah, blah, blah, like, you know, people, it's super fun for me, right? So there's all that stuff is cool, but I also still have a hard time with like actual real day-to-day stuff. I don't put much of that up on my social at all because I'm just kind of essentially a private person like, you know, the other day I was getting on the ferry to come back. And I like, and I like said, You know, normally I wouldn't post that I was on the ferry because I don't want people to know that I'm not home. Right. Like, you know, one of those people that I don't post that I'm leaving town because in some of them will come rob my house. Like, you know, like I just have, I live in a condo now, but like, you know, back to the day. You know, back to the day when it was not happening. Yeah, but like back in Emmettin, I would, I was always hesitant to post it. I was leaving town. Sure. Right. You know, like, oh, I'm on another mutant trip. Oh, great. Come rob my house. Yeah. You know, so I'm kind of that type of person where I feel like I don't really want people to know exactly what I'm doing all the time. But yeah, I'm still trying to remain comfortable with like, you know, sharing enough to like connect with people, you know? I don't know. Try in. Anyways. I love it. I asked you a question on there. I don't know if you saw it. I think the one I asked. I know that everyone, you know, doesn't realize this. This is actually a good thing to show because it's not only been absence this morning and people are like, why don't you answer my questions? And I don't be one of the newest ones. There's a lot of them. I asked while we were on. Okay, look at the other. I'm out of the reset. Oh, where you go? Has Ron motivated you to think of a new hobby. Well, I know we're already smoking cigars. I know you got this new cigar. I don't really count. Have you subscribed to a cigar? Is cigar not a shadow yet? I surrounded myself with cigar. With cigar. There you go. I did on it. By going there. Yeah. It's actually really cool because I'm so open about the fact that I'm not. And I never plan to be like this is a thing. Like so people will ask me like, oh, what are your five favorites? I'm like, I don't know. You'd have to ask Daniel or Rob because I walk in and I go, hey, I'll do something new today. And I go, all right, get this one. I'm like, okay, I walk back and find it and then I bring it out. And that's what I go with because I know what I like now as far as like the heaviness of a cigar. You know what I mean? And that's about it. So I'm like, hey, and Rob is a friend. Rob is a friend of ours that's a huge cigar guy. I mean, and he knows he's like a run actually is like a run and all things because he knows a ton of shit. But about the cigar. She's like, well, this is from this guy and you can only get this. If you go to an event and it's really cool to hear the story and I listen to it and I enjoy it. And I forget all the immediately. No, they all got all hand rolled. Oh, dude. Yeah. And it's my hand rollers that have had it passed down from generation to generation of hand rollers. Oh, there's so many things too. Like he's like, oh, because I told my there was a cigar. I didn't like, like I did was first one. I mean, why not like didn't you like about it? Like kind of like what are what is like pepper stick? I thought someone had a pepper grinder and was grinding it into my mouth. God. That's not something pleasant. Yeah, it was not good. But it was funny because he goes, oh, yeah, I've heard that with those. Just hold on to it for three years. Like I do not hold on to garbage for three years. No, this is garbage today. Well, I thought that was maybe a feature like guys that like spicy cigars. No, they're definitely is a thing with that for sure. Like I would probably never like it. But he basically was saying some cigars. For for example, like right now, I guess some cigars aren't being aged quite like they used to be before they even released. And again, I can imagine stories. I don't keep track, but there's specific companies very well known for a great cigar. And it was a cigar I did not like and he was like, they probably got rushed. You probably need time. Oh, I don't give time. Yeah, I don't have to either fucking come out and nail your everyday one. We're fucking all really likely. You're out. You know, but one of the things about being a cigar aficionado is patience. You're like, ah, I don't do that part. Which is why I'm not doing that shit. But actually, the thing that I'm working on is I'm now traveling. I've got multiple trips booked that have nothing to do with bodybuilding. And just to go have fun. Where you going? So like what's a trip for what do you think is a trip? Like what's right? Some people are like all inclusive resort. I don't want to do anything. Other people are like Airbnb downtown. Let's walk around. I Airbnb everywhere I go. Some people are tourists. They want to see that they want to see the IFL Tower and the Louvre and the Mona Lisa. And other people don't even care about the tourist shit. No, so I'm going to Costa Rica. Nice. In November, then I'm doing Dominican Republic in August. No, July. And all I want to do is things that people that live there do. I tend to usually bump into people in the game. And then be like, where would you go to eat because you live here? Yeah, no, that's not happening. I'm not working. Okay. But I do do. I am doing it all inclusive resort at the first one. Okay. Because that's my thing. But I'm interested in Costa Rica. I'm renting a mansion. And it's like $17. Like literally when I saw the total, I was like, How can this be $300 a day? It's a fucking house that's like loaded. I mean, you know, I actually send you a picture of it. I'm like, this place is going to be fucking amazing. But I got to rent a car there because you're not like in town. You got to go do this. It depends what part of Costa Rica you're in. I remember that I was I stayed at, I think it was five different places in a two week period of time. All Airbnb and it really cool places. When was this? This was like three years ago. And I remember the first half of the trip. We were more in like, oh, Costa Rican roads are really bad. You're going to have to, you know, be careful with that. And we got there and I was like, this is easy. This is great. This is better than Detroit. And then the second half of the trip we went to another area in the roads were like hell. I mean, the roads were an adventure in themselves. There were areas that we had to like literally cross rivers. Like there was no bridge. But usually the water is low enough that you just drive across the river kind of stuff. The cool thing is that there's so many different climates in the country. So you could be like in reinforced and then you could be in desert and then you could be at like ocean side, tropical. But yeah, the roads are very interesting and a lot of Costa Rica. I'll tell you that much right now. But let me tell you something about me. It's not what's that is this is that this is how I do everything in life. I say, oh, we're going to go to Costa Rica. Yeah. And I say, okay. Plan it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then that's it. Yeah, I don't like that. I actually how it really came up. The truth is it's a friend of mine Daniel's birthday. He's going to turn 50 fuckies old. And sorry, the throw that on. And we were like, we were discussing that we need to do something cool for his birthday. Yeah. And they keep his like, you want to go somewhere warm or cold. And then I was like warm. And that was it. That was that was the input that we put into this whole situation. And now there's a place, there's flights. Yeah. There's, you know, everything's done because I'm like, that's the star of your who's driving. You know, once we get there, I will because I said, Okay, so it was all somebody else's idea, but you're still that does not mean that you will not have to deal. You're going to be the guy. No, I can handle that. I just don't want to plan anything. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's an adventure. The roads are in no venture. That's how weekends work. Let's go somewhere new as far as I go into the process. Yeah. Let me be good. And then I just get told what time to be ready and what to where. What what's of my fanciest jeans to put on. Right. It's it. You know, how many pairs can I wear? I'm shooting shirts. Oh, and now because obviously I found my jean company. I have nine pairs of jeans. It's a lot of jeans. Nine. And I have every color of target shirt that's ten dollars that they make. I actually had somebody ask me that just yesterday. They were like, where you get your shirts, my target ten bucks. I put right in the post because I'm so proud of that because I were cheap. I got a shirt. That's funny. I buy a 50 off. You wear your mind. You wear some cheap. You wear some cheap. But that's it. And anywhere like well, again, watch. But that's the thing. It's like the steak with the mac and cheese, right? I'm still white trash. That's dusty. That's still white trash. That was a money. Nice watch. Right. They should have never given you people money. Exactly. That's what we do with it. Oh, that's flawless. So, yes. That's the thing I'm working on now, Ron, is I'm going to actually do things. And even when we go places sometimes, I might stay behind a few days. Like, yeah, England, I might be like, yeah, I'm going to stay for a week. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, I get that. Because I got it. Because I've never had any an idea. When we went to Australia last time for the Arnold, we stayed for another week. Yeah, we went up to the gold coast and hung out. And I showed her where I used to live and all that stuff. It was really cool. Good time. I got a great question for both of you. But I want, I want story with it. The question is, what was the first bodybuilding VHS you owned? Oh, this is fantastic. So mine would be the 1989 Olympia. Damn. He's way down. Yeah, because I remember when I first started training in 1990 and 91, you know, that first year in the gym. Some of the older guys at the gym, like, we're like, hey, watch this. And I remember having the 88 and 89 Olympia on they lent the tapes to me. And then I had two VCRs. So I dubbed them. Yes. The old days were these double tape. Yeah. Yeah. So I dubbed the 88 and 89 Olympias on to one big long tape. And I had them both on one tape. And that would have been the first VHS bodybuilding tape that I had. And then the first training video that I would have owned would have been. I think it was, I think it was Sean Rays first video. Okay. I remember what it was called though. You might have been called back to basics or something. I can't remember what it was. No first. That's James. Let's tennis James back to basics. Yeah. Yeah. And then I remember like clearly getting blood and guts in in 97. Because it arrived in the mail. I remember I started my diet. The first week of January in 1997. And blood and guts arrived on the day I started my diet. Came in the mail. I remember I was lost. Just as every fucking day. Every fucking day. Every fucking day. Yeah. And I remember I was amazed at how identical the workouts were. I was like this is exactly how I'm training. I've read everything and I understood what he meant. Because I'm training exactly like this. Almost identical workout too. So yeah. I remember that. What about you? What about you? What about your scrub? Well, I feel like mine is probably one that a lot of people had. Which was pumping iron was the first VHS. Yeah. You know. And that wasn't necessarily given to me. It was my dad's. It was in it was my dad's because his friend left it at the house. It just kind of like ended up in our collection. But I remember watching that because my dad's friend had brought it over. And at the time we were like the only people in our in his friend group that had a VCR. Like early early days. I was a little kid. Like I wasn't old enough to train yet. But I then inherited that tape. And I remember watching it with my dad and all of his buddies. And they were all. Some of them were power lifters. Some of them were body builders. And they all trained at the same the same gym, the Wayne Rack Center. And Lauren was like the guy who brought the tape over. He was like a Persian Arnold. Like he had his hair cut like Arnold did in the movie. And he'd wear like the polyester tight pants like the Arnold would wear. And like with a tank top and his lats flared out. And he'd be like walking around in sandals or bare feet all the time. That was Lauren. And he was also the guy that got the gear for my dad's buddies. And then there were guys like Gilbert who was a power lifter. And a biker. And worked like he did roofing. And the dude was really strong. And another guy Mike Knight who was a power lifter. And a bike. And a for it form like Vietnam that. Which wasn't that long ago in the early 80s. You know what I mean? So he was like still in his 30s, 40s early. Yeah. And they were just like really strong dudes that were like hanging out. You know, motorcycles, a lot of grease. A lot of nobody had like gym shark clothes back then. It was all just grubby people looking. You know what I mean? He said like you sweat a lot in the early 80s training. And you know, they all hung out watching pumping iron in the living room. And then that that tape became mine. That's funny. That is amazing. I was just like you remember every single person's name. Oh yeah. There was this guy. John meter. John meter who was my dad's buddy. And he did get like pretty good into body building. And he dressed up like the incredible Hulk one time. And came over to the house to surprise me. All green. And like jacked and with a shirt off in like all the kids in the neighborhood. We're like, oh, he's hit the incredible hogs. It's got house. It was the coolest thing ever. It was cool. He was ahead of his time. That's funny. It was fun. You've had bodybuilding your life like in a way that Ron, I didn't like you had someone in your life. It was also in doing it. Yeah. My parents were both they both lifted and I went to the gym with them. And they had like a daycare thing that wasn't always open. So I would sit like with my dad. My dad wasn't a big guy. But he trained with all these guys. And I would sit over to the side in the gym. And I just had like a coloring book with me. And I'd see all these guys lifting. And I just remember the chalk. You know, that the big the big old school chalk bin that they all used. And just the sound and the feel of the weights. Boom. You know, slamming down. It was so I kind of did grow up around it. And then I got involved really early. But then I switched gears and like I went into art and stuff. And I did that up until I, you know, Up until I got clean. And then I switched gears. I was like, you know what? You know what happened? I was like, you know what? I had so much fun as a kid lifting. I wonder what would happen had I chosen that instead. And I was like, you know what? I'm a two-old. I'm going to, I'm going to explore that. And here I am today. That's awesome. I think your mom was the one that was really ahead of her time. Your mom was lifting in the 80s. Yeah. She was good. Like she looked good too. Lauren was always wanting her to compete. And she didn't want it. But she was jacked. She had some good muscle on her. That's cool. Just because I mean, I don't think in the 80s, that was like, I mean, like now, like no one blinks that more than half the gym or women. Yeah. Yeah. You know, back then, I mean, it must have been her and like four of her friends. There were other girls that lifted, but there were a lot more girls that did jazor size. They did jazor size, seeing those real popular back then. That's freaking wild. So I didn't have a single one in the reason is because I found out about the bodybuilding VHS is when I started working at House of Fitness. And they used to have them playing in the store. So I actually bought all of them with my first check. Yeah, every single one that they had. So I had literally all the way from blood and guts. I had all of the, so I guess it would have been up to 2000 battlefield and BS. Then I had the early J. Cutler. I had Kevin the growing that was it's M3 or whatever it was called or. Can't remember. I was in the M3 machine. Yeah. Yeah. We had that one. We had the lead priest ones. I had NASA on the way. So I had a ton that they all got them all at once. And I used to literally be at the store all day long watching them all day, every day. One would run out. I would just take it out for the different one in. Because that was how we sold them back then too was by having them playing. Yeah. You know, it's always laughed because like, Remember when when when Ronnie's video when his unbelievable came out, I was still laughing the impeccable timing of that show. Because of that episode because there's a part where he's trying to, I think he's trying to back. And they got the rap music blaring and it never failed. There's a little silence and then the rap music and the guy goes, Be a show loud and it always happened when there's a little lady at the store. No, no, no, no, no. That's pretty fun. And it never failed. But but I love those things, man. I mean, I have seen, I would actually love to have when they all came back out on DVD. I repurchased all of them because I didn't have a, Obviously a VHS player now, I don't have a DVD player show. There we are. Now I have nothing sad there. My mom, I was unpacking her when she moved here. And I was like, why in the hell did you guys bring all these DVDs? You don't even have a DVD player. And she goes, yeah, we do. I'm like, why do you have a DVD player? She goes, oh, we have all these DVDs. Like, all right, you got me. Yeah, I've been defeated. I was so confused. I mean, like two boxes of DVDs. I'm like, you know, you just watch those on TV for free now, right? Anyways, do your thing, carry on box of bullshit. All right. I know. That was a song. I found a bunch of VHS tapes when I was, like, purging the condo a little bit. And I'm like, fuck, some of them aren't labeled. So I know they're probably my competitions or something. Or porn. Right. So yeah, we're porn. I know I used to label it. I would label it like stuff that no one would want to watch. Yeah. Did you really? I would label it like freestyle BMX. Yeah. I don't know when's watching that. X. X. X. Yeah. Yeah. The tricks when you're kiddo lives at home. Like, WWF. I have a VHSU would enjoy Iran. It's called 1991 The Year Punk Broke. And it followed Sonic Youth on their European tour. And their Vonna was there for part of it. While they were on their tour, they opened up for Sonic Youth. Yeah, they opened for Sonic Youth on that. That was before Nevermind came out. It was, yeah. And it was like, as it was coming out. So they left for that record. You know, they left and it was nothing. And when they came back, they were huge. Yeah, that's an awesome story. I'd like to see that. I've never seen that movie. It's good. It's very silly. Because Sonic Youth, the thirst and more and all in Kim Jong-il, they were very punk. You know, like, don't give a fuck, but just don't, you know, they didn't care what people thought about it. It was interesting seriously. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's our Sonic Youth. Did you know that? They were great. Yeah. Yeah. It's a great, super fun show to see. I bet. There's a piece of that part where Kurt shakes up a champagne bottle and checks it up against a wall, too, that was kind of epic. Yeah. It were a punk's man. Yeah. It was punk's punk rock. You know? With jet ones. Oh, let's see. This is, oh, this is a good one. Any gross post show weight gain stories before getting your shit together. Yeah. I do. My third show. I had the worst rebound ever. Um. Okay. So I competed twice already. And I had like a rebound both times because it was in 90s and we were downweight. Go out and eat pizza like three days in a row after the show. And you get like a water rebound. Whoops. Oh, hold my mic. Give me a second. Sorry, look at that. Jed. God, cousin, have it. Got my mic back. Nope. Okay. Nice good to go. Yes. Yes. Yeah. It might, it's, yeah. You'll take, okay. Yeah. So this third show I did was he Alberta's. I want to talk about what I did around the super budget. And I won the overall. And I was 244 and in five days, I gained 50 pounds. Wow. I was too, I was too 94 five days after the show. And obviously, I didn't want that to happen. But I was eating like crazy because I was coming to catch the rebound. So I was eating like fucking crazy. And then I just, you know, the first two days, you gain 10 pounds. You're like, okay, I could just keep eating like this. And then day three just, the floodgates and you're like, put on 10 pounds in one day. And now you're up 30 pounds. And you're like, oh shit. And they're like, well, this can't go on forever. So you do it for two more days. And next thing, you know, you're up 50 fucking pounds. And I went to the doctor. And I was like, hey, and I showed him a picture. And I was like, I was 244, five days ago. And I'm 294 today. I've gained 50 pounds of water. And he goes, no, you haven't. And I'm like, yep. And he's like, no, that's impossible. You'd be dead. You'd be dead. You'd have a heart attack. Your kidneys would fail. And I'm like, well, I'm sitting in front of you breathing. And I'm 50 pounds heavier than five days ago. So I just started like, you know, and then he like, I explained to him. I'm like, you know, it was on super low carb. So I'm probably insulin hyper sensitive. And then I've been eating like a pig and all the salt. And I did the whole prep on low sodium because it was in 90s. Yeah, yeah. So you're super sodium sensitive and just all the worst things. And I used to have a lactone as a diuretics. So now you're a lactone as a cholesterol levels. So it's the worst possible scenario for water gain. And I explained this all to him. And he just stood there and dumbfounded. And he was like, wow. And he's like, so what do you want? And I go, well, I need a prescription for lacics. And I'm going to, I think if I take a lacics a day for 10 days and clean up my food, I can calm things down and get things leveled out. And he's like, and he literally wrote me prescription for lacics. Because you don't want to take out lactone. And then you're just back onto the same fucking problem. Yeah. Yeah. I can't get off of it. So I took a lacics a day. And I remember it was like two weeks later. I was like 275. Right. So I had kind of like, and at 275 I looked okay. You know what I mean? No, I'm only 30 pounds overstated. And you're like, and I remember my ankle went down. Yeah. And then I went to that doctor a few months later again. And he was like, hey, what happened there? And I told him, he was just amazed. Yeah. I was like, yeah, I was, and he's like, you're lucky. You didn't have a fucking heart attack. You know, because I could have. Oh, for sure. I got a plug in here. His, you don't want to notice is that his camera gets fuzzy as he needs to plug in. And watch once he gets plugged in, it's going to clear up. It's going to look better. Or worse to put on what you're looking at. That's, that's Jay will look better in the background. Ron will look worse. Yes, clear. Not a lot to help there. Right. No, it's like me. It's why I cover up with the beard. It's. Wait, wait. Watch. He's still a little blurry. Get, get in a minute. Just watch. Oh, he's not plugged in yet either. Oh, see? Just got to be. Right. Here we go. Okay. Give it a minute. Okay. Just give it a minute. Just give it a minute. Just give it a minute. Just give it a minute. Okay. Okay. Okay. I was just, uh, a sense of rambling there at the end. But Scott has a theory, but I'm not seeing it coming through right now. I'm not either. Yeah. Give it time. Let's see what happened. Once they said that was shitty movie. Once I watched the whole thing. It was terrible. Um, theory. Um, wait. Oh, you're right. Scott, you're right. It's starting. It's starting. Wait, wait. We definitely better. When you're, when you when you're, when you're battery runs low, you start getting fuzzier. And I was like, Oh, we need to reconnect. I think for you soon here. Yep. Your mics in. You're like, send me. And then, and then every time you've said, hey, I got a plug in. Then I'm like, oh, that makes, then you plug in. It gets clear. Yeah. We look good. Look at that. Yeah. Yeah. Not for what we're talking about. We're back. Oh, wait. Yes. The gate. Yes. So, um, I did the same thing. It was my, I think it was my first show, actually. But the, the key was much different than, than Ron. It had nothing to do with a discipline of trying to be a better bodybuilder. I just ate like a complete moron from Saturday, Saturday night, Sunday and Monday. And I didn't even know about that. I didn't know enough about bodybuilding to even realize what, how much trouble I was in. But my kidneys were hurting. Oh. And I was literally, so I had a store at a high countertop where you'd come in. And I would lean over it until customers would leave. And then I would go lay on this box we had in the back. And I was just like, this, this is not good. I don't know what's happening. And it wasn't 50 pounds. I mean, I'm going to say only. But it was like 30 something. Um, in two, two days and a few hours. And I actually told myself much like Ron only in a much more stupid way. I said, if this doesn't, if this pain doesn't stop, I guess I would go to the hospital tomorrow. Because, when I didn't have, at that point in time, I didn't even, why didn't even, I mean, I, it's funny because it was so new to bodybuilding. I didn't even know I was in danger. Like I was just like, this hurts. Yeah. And I mean, like I knew it by kidney, but I didn't know why. And I, what, I didn't use diuretics for the show. But I did pull the water completely because that's all I knew back then. I probably 27 hours. Yeah. The saving grace was that, um, the only thing I realized besides the fact that I wasn't eating is that the only thing I was drinking was like coke. And I was like, I should probably drink water. So I stopped in like an asshole and started drinking a bunch of water. And thankfully my kidneys didn't fall out of my body. But yeah, that was it. But it was funny. Like in hindsight, once you realized I was like, well, I was like completely fucked. And didn't know how much trouble I was actually. Yeah. I remember after my very first show, I used too much diuretic, my first show, looking back on it. I was a little bit of a cowboy. And I remember sitting at the restaurant after the show and I was drinking and eating. And I had like these intense cramps that were just flashed through my body. And like hit and then release. Yeah. And then I had like, um, crazy leg cramps at the table a few times and I had to stand up. And I was so busy eating, but it didn't realize what I should have been doing is rehydrating. I probably. So I remember like halfway through dinner, I thought fuck, I should be drinking instead of eating. Like I started to realize that I was like, not healthy because all this weird ship was happening to me. And I was a little bit like, like, play, stop eating and I started like drinking and drinking and drinking. And I was like, fuck, open off, go to the hospital, I'll help it off to go to the hospital. Because I was like, I'll start to get a little bit worried because I had these really fucking weird cramps happening. And I knew that was a bad sign. And, um, and then by the time we left the restaurant, I was like, fuck, I think you've stopped. And then the next day, oh my god, I was so sore from the cramping. Yeah. Because I was having these hard cramps at the restaurant, like my hamstring, I'm a calf kept going. And the next day, everything that was cramping at the restaurant was like 11 out of 10 dogs. Yeah. It could barely walk. I was leaving the hotel. I was like, oh, like in pain, it was really rough. I did that from my first show. Like the first few, like, she's really all of my first show. Oh, my first, first few years. Yeah. I also remember the the most pain I was ever in from eating. And it was, um, it was actually after my second show, which I wasn't shredded for, but we went to Pizza Hut. And I remember I ate an entire large pizza, meat lovers pizza. And I drank a liter of chocolate milk. Oh, yeah. I'm just mad about the combination more than anything chocolate milk in Pizza. A liter? I remember drinking a liter of chocolate milk with an entire large pizza. And then by the time we, we got out of the restaurant, I couldn't get in the front seat of the car, because I couldn't bend at the waist. I was in so much pain. My guts were just fucking killing me. I wasn't farting or going to ship myself or anything yet. It was like the upper abdominal. Yeah. It was painful, painful pressure. And I couldn't bend at the waist to get in the front seat. So I had to lay in the back seat of the car. I laid down on the seat. I was like, oh, that was in like the fetal position. And we went back to the hotel, because we were out of town. And I remember I needed help getting out of the car. And then I just laid in bed and my stomach was just like, I felt like two cats were fighting in my guts for like hours and hours. And then I was just wrecked. I remember just destroying that hotel room. That's just destroying it. Yeah, I didn't get much, I remember the next morning the guys were like, you didn't get much sleep because I've my buddies went with me. And I was like, I was up all night just shitting my fucking brains out. And I was brutal. That was a worst night ever after a show. I know I find it all. My second contest. I referred to after that after the second show. My girlfriend had done a show two weeks before me. I competed. Then we went for like a four day weekend up north to sleeping bear sand dunes to walk around, take a little vacation. And I now refer to that as the great eat occasion. Because I went up there in good shape. In fact, I have the pictures. These are these were contest pictures. 172 right here. So I was in good view. Look at you. I was in good shape. I was pretty cute. It was pretty cute. It was pretty cute. It was pretty cute. It was pretty cute. It was pretty cute. It was pretty cute. And then after the great eat occasion, I had to be like 210, 220. I can't remember where those pictures. Of course I didn't take them, right? There was no pictures for like four months. But like when you're that size and you put on that much weight, like you don't even look like you. Like percentages. Yeah, 40 pounds from 170 is a different thing. I just remember being at the sand dunes. Because we went out for breakfast. There was a great waffle place with pancakes and stuff. And then we like go to the grocery store and buy all the things we had in bought for months. And then we'd go out to eat for dinner. And we didn't have any planned food with us. And I remember like the second or third day, we were trying to walk up the sand dunes. I was like, I can't make it. My back, my legs, they're just so pumped. It was so much water. And I'm like, I couldn't walk. You know, just that's amazing. Yeah. So I tell clients about that story to tell them. Like first time clients like listen, don't do it what I did on the great e-cation. Yeah, I tell. I just did that with a first time. But just barely. I tell them how much they can eat. Yeah. Because you just, you don't, I mean, forget about the obvious, the danger. But the other thing is you don't want to look like on Monday. You didn't just compete. Yeah. Like that's the one that I remember as once I was okay. I remember sleeping in the mirror and I was like, So I died it for 12 weeks. To look like X. And now I look worse than I did when I started the diet. Like four days later. Yeah. I heard my soul a little bit where it goes at least. So yeah, not good. Harvey, yes. My dogs realize that we're late. It's a wildest thing. They start talking to me. They're like, hey, that's late. There's a long show. It's our time couple shows. We did. That's okay. We're doing our thing. I have to tell them that. I'm trying to set. Don't know if that is. There is. We got a big one to go out on Ron. I have a couple screenshot ones that I liked. Yeah. Where is this one guys? Sometimes you know when they do you know when they do you know when they do you You know when they do you know when they do you know the question. So you take a screenshot. Unless you answer do you know what I mean. Yeah, I know. I know. So here's one for you. Actually, I got a few. Let's get asked about questions. Shoot. Would you rather go back in time ten years to fix a key event or decision that you made or be able to see five years in the future? So you know what to change. Or. Or for sure. See into the future. Yes. Because I mean it's it's cheesy but accurate. I wouldn't want to change anything because of where I am. So right. You'd be afraid of what you don't give everything out. Yeah, like you know it's like those movies where they point out well if you know like back to the future. I thought that was a great piece where anything he did could change everything. Yeah, you know. But I think that that's key because for example you go back and change something in the past. The next thing you know it put you on a street that gets you to car accident your dead and you don't even make it to this point. Yeah, I mean or something else. You know every little thing that happens I'm one of those. I want to call it believer. I think it's a fact that. That's a butterfly. Yeah, exactly. You know, but into the future I will say the the only thing I would want to see are things that are financial. Because I would be afraid again like I don't want to know. Right. Let's say you found out that someone important would be gone or something like that and then you're waiting for that to happen. Because you can't maybe necessarily change it. Even just a shot just a screenshot of your bank account. Well, we need to know why it was that way just because like I actively am. Yeah, maybe be anti-content. It makes like a 10th house. You know what I mean, but it's like, yeah, but I mean, it's like well you just bite your 10th house. Well, there are things though because for example, like it you know like interest rates are changing right now. So the house I'm building. I'm going to be forced to pay more than I want to an interest, which is fine once it changes and I really five. But it's like those are interesting things. It would be nice to know like for example right now. A question I get asked regularly, which I don't know why people think of an expert because I'm not. But like should I buy a house now or should I wait and I'm like, well, I don't actually know the answer to that. But here's what people who know more than me suggested to me. Yeah, you know, it's like, and it's another factor. Well, if you don't have any of that, any houses, I'd probably still like right now it would almost be perfect because it's no longer a seller's market either even though people think it is not. Right? So you've got some you've got some power now, you know, if you're getting your house, I definitely don't suggest sitting around and renting longer. You know, but those would be things I'd loved to know. Like what happens between now and five years from now in the market and when. Okay, thank you. I have everything I need. That'd be great. Just what's what's crypto look like in five years. Well, imagine like imagine back in a wait if you would have known about the market crash and realize you could short the housing. Well, I remember I had I remember in late O seven. I had my my townhouse in Emmett and I had it appraised because I was getting a line of credit. And they praised it. Like it was peak market. Yeah. Like I remember they appraised it and I was like, what the fuck? There's no way my houses were that. But it was awesome for me because I was trying to get a line of credit. Yeah. So the bank just threw this giant line of credit at because they're like, oh, you have so much equity in your home. And then like within a few months the market just. Mm. You can bleach shit. And I was like, fuck, I wish I would have sold my place. You know, but you know, you know, because sold in rebought real quick. You know, it's one thing to sell for six months and then buy. Not even six months like two months. Like it would have been back and buy your own house back. Back and buy your own house. Like just it would have been so funny, right? Because that's what it is. Like do you get out of the market to wait for it to go back down. But then are you out of the market for five years or are you only out of the market for five months? We don't it's crazy to with that run is when when when that all went down. My mom had just bought her house at the peak. And it was on an arm. So when the arm ran out for her to be able to afford the house she was already in, we needed to put more money down. And any other person I would have been like the market's fucked. Let the house go. Who cares? Let your credit take a hit. You'll get another one in a few years. It's fine. Well, my mother's age. I was like, this is probably your last house. All right. Fuck it. We sold some motorcycles that we had. Put the money down so she could afford to stay in the house. And I literally said to myself, that house will never be worth what you paid for. And that's okay. Because you're going to die there. Right. Then you fast forward to now. And you sold it for like $200,000. And you sold it for like $200,000 more than we should have never bought it for that day. So it's one of those things where it's like, that's what it would be nice to know. Because I literally was saying myself, anyone else in the plant is a bad decision. You know, because people are emotional with their house or with like, no, I said to the bank that I would pay this. And I should, well, the bank would fuck you in a heartbeat. Yeah. So don't even blink. If it's a bad move to seek the house, let it roll. You know, fuck it. They'll loan you money again when they forgive in three years when you fixed your credit. So don't worry about it. But yeah, that was the only reason we kept it now. I'm laughing because I'm like, geez, I'm glad I didn't make that as an expert state. Because I was wrong, but I cut behind a grant. Right. So wild. What about you? You didn't answer your own question. I'm assuming you were greedy, but I'm. Oh, I agree completely. I wouldn't say anything about the past. I just have watched many science fiction shows. What about the same thing? Go back 10 years, learn about Bitcoin. Put your money in that and just learn about, you know, It could be, it could be even better. Listen, we know what happened. Here, five years in the future, we could learn what happened. And then you could, you could play off of that 10 years ago, you know, tell yourself about Bitcoin. Oh, but, but what about this? So this is the reason I work at the other way. Scott. Yeah, it's because what if, like, Emily, that this is a great one because Ronald I understand why it's funny because she's not this way, became this entitled bitch because Ron got rich and like got her fancy shit and all this stuff. And the back of his head, he knows that she was a gold mine perfection in the first, and what would have been the five years. Yeah. And now he's fucked it up for 10 years. And now he's ruined that. But then you're going to change it in five years, any way. Well, no, actually, that's the problem. Here's the problem. Here's the problem. Now, 10 years ago. But see, what is it going to do? 10 years ago, I was still in my 30s. If you would have given me like, you know, 20 million dollars at that age, I would have probably ruined my life. Now that I'm also flooring. There you go, or yeah. Not quite. Just bad decisions. Oh, God, that's good stuff. Okay, here's here's one for you. Um, What's the most awkward moment you've ever had with someone in the gym? Have you ever had a confrontation or a fight or is anything ever happened like that? What's the most awkward gym confrontation you've had? Well, I have one of his fans, has he? It wasn't awkward for me, but it was funny. So when I was in high school, we were just starting to go to the gym. We were doing the bigger fastest stronger program. You know, it's what's like five sets of five or whatever. And but we were young and, and, you know, so it was me and two buddies. And we had just finished me and Jeremy had just finished our last set of this thing. And our other buddy had one left. And this old lady walked up, not like an older lady, like an old lady. And she was, how many sets do you have left? And he had just finished a set, you know? And she's, he goes one. And without blinking she was, well, you're going to do it. And he froze and didn't know what to do. And immediately laid down and did his set. See, it was like, you didn't know what to do. And I just remember laughing my ass out because I'm like, Oh, wow, because he didn't want to be, it was just a classic moment of like, I don't know what to do. I'm just going to do what the old lady told me to do. And he just immediately leaned back and went after a set. And we went, oh, of course, and we gave him shit for like years. I'm like, you've got fucking told by like a 75 year old woman to do your fucking set now, bitch. That's pretty funny. Very nice. You don't have much time to wait. It was just amazing though, because, you know, like that's how people are, because in the flip, this is what makes it a full circle thing. The other day we're in the gym. And I overhear a guy yell at the trainer next to me, this old guy. Like he literally like, get that shit away from me. Oh my god. What just happened? This old guy was angry. Like you could see the rest of it. Like, like, anger, like you look at him. You wanted to fight for real. And finally, we go over to the channel and I'm like, what the fuck did you do? He goes, I asked him how many sets he had left. And I go, okay. And I was like, is that probably because, well, he said 16 and I laughed. He said, I have 16 sets. I was like, so he goes, I laughed at him on accident and he lost it. That's funny. He did 16 sets, every. I, I, that's funny. I had that happen to me once. I was, I remember there was a press down I wanted to use. You know, like there's always that one stack that you like for press downs. Yeah. You know, and I went over to this guy and there was just like weird guy on it. And I go, hey, yeah, how many sets you got left? And he listed, looks me dead and he only goes 12. That's what I'm like. A lot of sense. Okay. You might be, if you might, are you being a fucking asshole to me right now? I'm not quite sure. But fair enough. Are you just telling me what I'm going to do? I asked you a question and he said 12. So there's plenty of police. Yeah. So I go do my press downs on another pulley. He didn't like he wasn't mean to me. He just took to me. Go 12. And I'm like, okay. But you were confused because you're Brandon. So it was absolutely. So I go over and I'm doing my press downs and I'm watching him. I kind of watch him. Man, mother fucker did 12 more sets. Oh, he was on that thing for 12 more sets. Like he wasn't being a dick like fuck off or got 12. Like he wasn't like that. He was like, I've 12. Yeah. Like I don't know what the fuck program he was on. But he did like 12 things on that pulley. All the same over and over and over and over and over. It was just funny. You know, you think they're being an asshole? But they're just 12. 12. Yeah. How do you guys do this at five minutes? Five minutes. Which is fine. He was he was super setting a hammer shoulder press with a rope try subject extension. Right. Right. Terrible for pressing string. Yeah. So I told the gig. He's got five more minutes of it. She was just a minute and my gag. It's fine. It gives me time. We sat there. I waited for him for five minutes. I haven't really had any like I'm just trying to think. I don't really remember having like a bad gym confrontation or anything like that. You know what I mean? No. Like I don't really remember anything really bad happening like that. I remember a couple of times when I thought was going to be a fight in the gym. Yeah. And this was back in Emmett and there was a couple of times where I thought there was going to be a fight in the gym because I saw other people like gravitating towards an area. You know when you can tell when something's going on. And I remember I mean that was my home gym. I trained there every day. I knew everybody there. So I remember I was like, well I better go have a look. You know what I like. I went over and I'm like, oh, these two guys are arguing. And you're wondering if something's going to pop off. I saw I got throw a 45 pound plate at another dude before I told story. I told that story before. Yeah. It's a good matter. Yeah. And the guy like jumped us to the side and then the plate kind of deflected to play it off his arm kind of. But then there was a bench like a flat bench. So both his feet got taken out by the flat bench as he jumped to the side. So he just went, like, fuck in over on his side of his head and stuff. He really took a fall. But yeah, that's the only thing. But I've never had anything like, computational. That's why when people don't get along in the gym, I'm like, Jesus. I didn't even get in the gym for 33 years. I haven't really had any. I've seen a lot of that. I've got that hard to get along with people. I've seen a lot. I've seen a lot. I've seen a lot. Just get along. So much. We had this guy who was he was not like everybody else. He would be doing weird shit in the gym. And he was one of those people that had some very good genetic strength. Very well built. Yet I never saw him do any like actual body building movements. And he would do stuff like take two dumbbells and put them on the mass. And then do like a handstand on them. And then do like an inverted press while he's upside down. And he'd do like five of those reps. And then he'd like walk around and he had like outfits. It would all match. You could have a green hat with a green shirt and like green shorts and green shoes. That day. And then next day it'd be like a camel hat with a camel shirt and camel pants. And it's just like kind of a weird dude. Like you could tell like something's a little off with him. And then one day there is this kid Tim who was a, he was classic physique. So this wasn't like that long ago. Classic was around. And they got into it. And the guy just turned on him and just decked him out cold. Broke his orbital socket. It was a mess. Oh yeah. It was, it was like there's so many stories. So many weird weird people at the gym. I told another guy off this old dude. He came up to me one day and he like he had kind of look like fat. Kind of look like fat rainbow. And he had like kind of like mullet. Would wear the headband like rainbow. And he had this. That's like a character in like a character in like a real Korean character. And he's got like this tank top on with like really big pecks. But a lot of fat too. And just kind of standing like this all the time. So the pecks are always out. And he was like, hey, watch this. And he walks over to the skinny little Asian guy and he goes, how many more sets you got? And the guy's like, uh, uh, one more. And he'd be like, well, I'm gonna work in with you. And then he just like bully this guy around and like kick him off the machine. So I remember, uh, I can't remember the story. I can't really retell it well. So, but I did, I did like get back at him. Like he did it to one of my clients. And I just belittled him in the middle of the gym. And made him feel like shit. And just, and because he just wanted to like impress me at the time. You know, with like, watch me bully this guy around. And he's trying to do it to people I knew. And I was like, no dude, your piece of shit. Get out of here. You know, he's gonna do as long as he wants on this machine. Get the fuck out, you know? Yeah, yeah. Fat Rambo. It was Fat Rambo. I think this is the name of today's show is. Fat Rambo. It's absolutely the name of this show. It has to do it. The funny thing is, they'll have to watch right to the end. You even get to the Fat Rambo part. Yeah. Have you met Fat Rambo? Something like that. I don't know. If you went to the Powerhouse, no one. Every gym's got, every gym's got that, that, you know, a couple old guys that are kind of maybe stuck in the 80s. And maybe they kind of do look like Fat Rambo. Maybe they were a headband, made out of a sweatshirt. Oh, yeah. Wait, it's a fan. The J-Color style. I used to do that. You know, I remember there was just one dude at the gym. He used to train at. He would always put the neck heart at the head harness on. Oh, yeah. There's that guy. He played soft in that chain. He was, he got a train his neck. He got a train his neck. It's like dude, you're almost 60. Your cervical spine's had enough. Yeah. Like, like, he stopped. Even just do like, weight of your head. Like, just keep it moving is good. But that's, take the three plates off the chain. Like, maybe, put a, like, I don't know. How much do you have to train your cervical spine when you're 60? I don't know. And she was fine. I've seen guys that work out where you're going to be. We're getting, we're getting, we're getting work gloves. Like, heavy leather work gloves. Yeah. There was a loss of two. I was seeing that. That's something I used to see in the old days. You see the one guy would have work gloves on. Another guy with like, black and sunglasses. Just blacked out sunglasses every day. Every few of those. Yeah. There was a guy in the gym today in Cackeys. And like a regular belt with a tucked in polo shirt on. Yeah. And I, I had to hit, I immediately, like a dad joke hit me so fast. I looked at the guy go, he's here for business. And she's like, he's here now. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. See, that's one thing I couldn't do. I, I, I was at a point where I could wear cargo shorts to the gym. Yeah. Remember the cat, the gas, the camo cargo shorts that were down to the knee and there. Yeah. You can do that. So I got to a point where I could wear those to the gym for arm day. Okay. Yeah. And I trained out for the leg. You see or something? No. No, you, because I'm wearing a normal belt. Like I've wearing a belt with them, right? Yeah. I can't, you can't train a nose. That's, that's, for arm day you're okay. Because you got to wear a cool shirt that looks like you're training. You got a nice big t-shirt on. But for, for something else, you're basically wearing street clothes in the gym. Yeah. Yeah. You know, there's some noise by that. And even, and a lot of my friends break my own mental rules. Like with flip flops in the gym. Hey, my training partner shows up with Magasins on half the fucking time. Does he really? Yeah. One of our losers friends wearing Magasins. What are we going to do? You know? I don't wear cracks in the gym. I don't feel good about that. No. No. I had a client came over the other day. He was looking for a vehicle. And he was going to be in town. He lives like an hour away. Homsa. Shout out to Homsa. And he came in and he was wearing khaki shorts. Like the cargo shorts and he had like this. I saw that. I saw him wearing. Yeah. He was wearing a shirt on. Kind of like a nice dressier t-shirt. Plus it's a good look. I can't do the pink t-shirt. It doesn't look right with my skin tone. Dusty. You do the pink shirt that we're too pink. Anyways. Yeah. It just doesn't look right. And he had on flip flops. But it's like we were doing arms. So I was like, OK. But when the first thing I asked him when he walked in, he didn't have any like a bag with him or anything. I was like, you didn't get to change anything. He was like, no. Yeah, those guys. I don't get those guys. I'm here to train. I just came in my normal street clothes. But we were just doing arms. So it's like I get it. I know. I still got to carry it bag just to feel like I'm going to the gym. I have to call these people out. It's got anyone who's wearing anyone who's wearing flip flops or sandals to the gym. I don't know what world you live in. I don't. I know we've had J.P. on the show. But J.P. is his E lives in his own world. I know that. Yeah. And this is his own private gym. Homs is from Morocco. So there is that. You know, there's that call. I guess there's that call. I guess there's that call. The thing that you take and then you consider it. People from Morocco. You know, they just brought that. They're like good with sandals. They're like, it's just a joke. I mean, there's more sandals in their blood. I don't know. But just chill. You know, bodybuilders, they come into the gym. We're in sandals and flip flops and they're training shoulders. Yeah. I wear downbell shoulder press. Pressing the 120. But I would never train. Nothing with sandals. I wouldn't go to do triceps and sandals. No way. You know, one thing I hate is I don't want to have a gym where there's a bunch of rules. Because I hate rules. Like, I don't want to have to have a bunch of rules. I'm an all-freedom guy. So I don't want to have a bunch of rules. But just I'm just worried you're going to fucking. Cut a toe off. You're just. Oh, so cut. It's fucking hell off, man. You know, where some shoes at least keep your. That least keep your severed toes in your shoe in a pouch. Yeah. And a pouch all the way. I'm going to throw it. I've got broken foot. I've got to leave on it. Because if you drop something on that foot, it's going all over my other dumbbells. And then what's going to work here and try to work there. And now you just made a cleanup project for me. Whereas if you drop a weight on your Nike Jordan and crush your foot, you just take that shoe. Take that shoe out. Go to the hospital. That's your problem. Yeah. Don't. Don't you're a bully. Yeah. Look quickly. Don't the bleed out of the shoe. You'll make it. But I don't. I don't want your problem all over my weights. Yeah. I'm going back this back this. Wait. So it's good. So. That Rambo with sandals on. That's our nightmare. Hey, can you throw him? Ben. Okay. It's a lot of good and valuable information in this episode. I think that's it. Just because I'm fucking starving. Yeah. Yeah. You know, we're going to be a lot of people. Realize we gave up like a half a day. I started at 10 30 and it's 140. I'm full of these words like check-ins to do. Still. Yeah. You got a bunch of people that are wondering what the record is. It's 445 here. Yeah. So the days like over. Yeah. I know. Okay. I got to go. Remember everybody like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Ring the bell. Ring the bell. Ring the bell. That's the ring the bell. Ring the bell. Re-next from Dusty. It was. Okay. Remember everybody. It's just bodybuilding. What about that show next week? We have to ask her though because she's a train. Yeah. We've got to find out what she can do because I can do Sunday if you want to go early. Okay. I can do that. Awesome. That's a thing. Oh, actually I can't. Okay. Sorry. I can't. You're going to be there. Yeah. I'm going to be there. Yeah. I'll show you our message real quick. I just want to rebook. Does she want to go live on Wednesday? I don't know. I don't know. Wednesday and traveling. Okay. Yeah. Like I'm gone Wednesday. So that's for the trip, right? Yeah. So my plan was going to be like to do is little as possible. But get the show edited literally like after we record it. I've got like a few hours left in the day. I was literally going to edit it right then. Upload it. But schedule it to come out Wednesday because Tuesday. I've got to like do all my shit to leave Wednesdays. Wednesdays. So what did you what when did you want me to reach Keshe for that? I thought you said Tuesday Scott. I mean like a day. No, that was my idea. Yeah. Tuesday. I'm kind of the shut down because I have another show. I could have done Sunday but Ron's gone. So I'm really just back to what day that the earliest. I come back. Like for a week. I'll be gone. I'm going to look at the can't open in the calendar right now. So I'm the earliest I can have her and then I'll let her go. All right. I've got to go. I've got to go. I've got to go. I've got to go. I've got to go. I've got to go. I've got to go. I will be back by like the sixth. Okay. The sixth of July. This is where we're getting. This is all getting a wacky right now. Why is that? That's six. The July. I'm going to hit a button here. We're going to go dark for a minute but I'm still here. Yeah.

Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding