. Myself from Parlo and my producer and co-host. Scottling Nally. Remember like share, subscribe, comment and I think there's something else. I don't know. That other guy usually does that part. Fuck. Ring the bell. That's it. Ring the bell. Okay. So we don't know where Dusty is. I was talking to him on the phone and then he started making all these noises. And then the phone went dead. Yeah. I'm sure he's fine. He always comes back. He'll be fine. He'll be fine. He'll be fine. I don't know where he is, but I mean like I'm not going to ask any questions or look for him or worry because I know where I was coming back. Yeah. Like a cat or like a dog that gets out sometimes. Yeah. You know, you see the odd story like the odd story of like a guy who lost his dog in like three years. Yeah. Yeah. Someone. Someone calls him and goes, I think there's a dog that looks like you're a little dog at this pound and it's just random. It's like another state. You know. Yeah. It's like two states over. Like this. Crazy. Yeah. Yeah. I'm sure. Like, you know, we in Vegas would be in Vegas shooting in two weeks and he'll just like wander in everybody. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Well, I'm sure he's. I'm sure he's fine. But we have plenty to talk about because you have a lot of YouTube questions. There's like 25. I just counter them. Literally like 25 questions from YouTube, which you guys are killing it because everybody who posts a question or just a comment in general, it all helps to boost the show up. So other people can find it. So thank you guys. Absolutely. And you know, we give you two comments a little preferential treatment. Yes. You know, I did a great story box. Well, cool. My story. My story box was it great. I mean, I did a. I did a. I did a story box is better than anyway. I did a question box on my story and it got a bunch of great responses. And okay, you know, I have. I have something I wanted to bring up. Sometimes I put a question box up. Yeah. And I get a whole bunch of questions and they're like kind of boring. Okay. Sometimes I put a question box up and they're like really great questions. Yeah. And I realized that how I word, huh, it like really affects it. And you know, if I put like, come on guys, let's get some good ones. Yeah. Anything goes. I get way better questions than if I just go, hey, question time for the podcast. I, it's funny how that. And it could be from the same people. Yeah. Yeah. Your prompting them is what you saw. Something. So I guess technically it wasn't really good story box that you did. There you go. See, I didn't even have to say it myself. I'm cracking the code Scott. It's it. Because I learned all sorts of stuff here. Like how to Instagram and stuff like that. Yeah. You know, and it just comes back to like, people need to be told what to do. That's just the psychology of the consumer. And we all play, we all play the consumer role, right? Like in this situation, I'm not the consumer. Right? But there's a bunch of other situations where I am a consumer. Like anytime you like go on to like a BMAX page on YouTube, you're totally a consumer or just even if I go on someone else's body building podcast can ask them a question. I'm a consumer. Yeah. So we all play the role and the psychology of being a consumer has like it's so easy to be prompted and like guided and directed and you don't even realize it. And you just, you know, you read the box and it's dusty sand, you know, come on. Let's get some fucking good ones. Dude. Like yeah. Fucking my good. You can't just ask like how do I get my bench up? No, no. You know, so it matters. I saw this TV show. I think it was called like magic for humans. Blue my mind. I can't remember the guy's name, but he, he talked about like influencing people. So that when you can get them to say the thing that you want them to say. So when you're doing a magic trick, they'll be like, hey, you know, I want to see, you know, a banana and then you show them the banana. But like through the conversation, you prompted them. He brought in these three people. They were all like big Instagram influencers had a ton of followers and he gave them all these props and he's like, I want you guys to teach me how to make a good Instagram picture. And then he said, by the way, you know, I want to show you my current Instagram pictures. And so we sat him down. He had this conversation with them and he showed him about his like most recent eight pictures on a screen and then he turned them loose. That's what they all did the same freaking picture because he influenced them. He said stuff like like he had used the word like feeling chilly. Like that was one of his quotes. And because of that, they all used the ice cube tray. Whatever it was, like he all had them do the exact same thing. And they didn't know it. So they're like, all right, I want to see we're going to unveil them all. And they all had the exact same picture. And because the whole thing was like, I want to learn how to influence the way you guys influence. And then he actually influenced that. Do it. It was so creepy. Oh, wow. Yeah, it's amazing. It's amazing. There's all these little like, you know, like cheat codes for sales and psychology. And you know, like I just remember, you know, I mean basic basic bullshit, like back when I was bartending, I remember the older bartenders. And these aren't like new school guys. These are like guys that are like in their, you know, at the time. In my very early 20s. And they're these guys are in their 30s and 40s. And they're like real old. They're like real, like real, like broken back. Still working. Yeah. And and and and even those guys would be like every time every time someone orders a drink, you, you, you always have like a yes motion. And you ask them if they want to upgrade to a double and premium, you know, you want to, great use. And you know, if you get a double, you save it all. You know, like, and you always, it's always yes. Yes. Yes. And and, and, you know, you want to say, you want to save a dollar, right? Yeah, you can just answer stuff. Yeah. You know, and, and you know what, I mean, not was a good bartender. So like, I think a lot of that stuff was effective over the years. Like, you know, and it's just funny how like even the old school guys knew that. You know, there was no like, you know, they weren't doing all this modern research and stuff. You know, this was like 100 years ago. It's like before YouTube was even the thing. Yeah. You know, you know, but it was just kind of cool. Like car sales guys, car sales guys. Oh, yeah. Body language and where to stand and like how to like what to say to them and the mood to get them in while they're looking at cars, you know, it's in positive stuff. Like if they got their kids with them, you're like, oh, you kids are great. Aren't they? Yeah. You know, like, you know what I mean? Like, I feel like people are nowadays they're more on to that. You know what I mean? Like, you go to the car place and you're like, I'm waiting for you for sure for sure. That's what makes it more challenging. So the people now have to be like so subtle at it. Yeah. That you that it gets past your, you know, Yeah. They have more genuine. There's whole, um, I'll call it cults like whole cults around like picking up chicks. You know, that, you know, like this is how this is what you do when you see the girl. You do this and, you know, you know, they have like their plans. I remember there was a book. I can't, I'm not going to try to butcher the title, but there was a book that went really like exploded like about 15 years ago. Yeah. And it, you know, kind of made the news because it was like going around. It was kind of like, remember when the secret came out. Yes. Yes. There was a book for picking up chicks. I can't remember the title. I think I know what I'm talking about. Someone out there might remember what I'm talking about. But it was like a book that sort of made the news. Yeah. And I remember my buddy read it and he told me one of the things in it. He's like, and he was pretty good with women. And he told me one of the things in it. He's like, holy fuck I always do that. That's why that's why I've been so good. He's an intro. Yeah. He was a natural and what it was was, let's say there's a girl you like. And she's standing with four people. Yeah. You go over and you're, you talk to the group, but you almost ignore her. Oh, I've heard this one. Yeah. Yeah. And you like give attention to like her friends. Yeah. You know, almost ignore her. And just like all this stuff that was like kind of like brutal. Yeah. But it was in the book as like this stuff fucking works. Because it makes her think, why is he not paying attention to me or my friends? Pretty near the meat. And it was all about like the way it was written was all about like it was ruthless. Yeah. It was like, you know, now herself is steam is one number lower. So now there's more. Now you're statistically more likely to get in there with her. And what I mean, and the more data issues, the better. Yeah. And it would be all about that. And then there is like strategic moment when you would like acknowledge her. And then the set the reward. Yeah. We'd wait for her to put effort in. Yeah. There'd be some she tried to interject in the conversation. But then when she puts effort into like trying to be part of it, then you can then you like reward her like a dog. Okay. And it was just the way it was written was just so ruthless. I hope the guys are taking notes out there right now. Yeah. Yeah. I know. I know what's funny. Um, what else did I have to say? You know, I can't remember. So much going on Scott. I'm bomb dust. What is that with us? I'm bomb dust is out with us too. We got a quickly talk about the Tampa Pro. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There was a. What do you think? I don't even know that Kamal was going to be there. Yeah. So I heard he was doing the opening. I was like, oh, yeah. That's funny. I asked the Cito. I messaged him as soon as Kamal walked on stage. I said, what is he way? And he said he was two 18. Okay. I wondered. I've actually, I've got the pictures here too. If you want to pull any of them up. Um, which I think of a team. Obviously for anybody who's watching who didn't know a team one. I mean, a team was fucking massive. And he was in good enough condition. I guess. Yeah. I mean, the back double bicep was Kamal all day long. Yeah. Throw that on. I don't know. Just because Kamal's back double was so crazy. But like, I mean, a team looks great there. Like, I don't know. I guess in person, a lot of people were saying a team wasn't hard enough or lean enough. Yeah. You know. I don't know. Let me grab a piece. I, I, I, I, I sometimes think that I, I've had a few people like, you know, you read the odd critical. You read the odd critical complaint. Yeah. I'm here of yourself. And I've, I've read some comments where people are like, runs too nice. Yeah. You know, what is any rifties guys more? You guys have to understand guys. Rounds Canadian first of all. So there is that. Well, there is not secondly. It's just that I've been to so many shows that I know that being their live in the front row with the judges is different than all the stuff you presented on Instagram and it is. I don't trust, I don't really trust any images. Like, yeah. What's been filtered? What hasn't been filtered? Did they enhance it? Did they fix it or make it better? Like, yeah. You know, and I just, even the videos you see like, you go, well, you know, you just got to be there. Like, like quite often from row 20 at the honor classic everybody looks like they're in the same condition. Right. You know, I just, I'm fucking great. They're just a great. And then you walk on stage. And you're standing with guys and you're like, oh, that guy's like harder than that guy and that guy's. You know, you just, it's just different. So there's a shot of here's, here's the a keen back shot. He hit this when they got a picture of him here. And I mean, yeah, that's, that's not the best heart, let's put it this way. That's not the hardest a keen we've ever seen. But it's hard for him to get there. That said, man, like, you know, and obviously I wasn't there either. Let me see if I can find the comparison pictures because when you see the scene, when you see the comparisons, there is a factor of just sheer size too. So I don't want to, you know, I mean, I know as Cito was pretty upset about it. I heard he was really upset. I talked to him a bit. Okay. But I heard he was really upset on their podcast and went off on how come all should of one. And I mean, I understand his argument because I guess they said, I guess somebody said it got out. I don't want to butcher the story, but I guess one of the judges said, you know, when we stood them all together, you know, we realized that he's just too small. And that's kind of what I was wondering. I mean, here's a, here's a side shot. And so then as Cito's argument is well, if, if that actually matters, and why is Hati in the top three, might it shine clear read a way to open show, what it, you know, like, how did Clarita be region? Like, you know, take Clarita and region. And then take, take, come all in a keen. Yeah, you know, and they kind of came out opposite. I don't know. But that was Chris's argument, I guess, but I don't really, I don't really, I wasn't there. You know, I mean, I did what they did. You know, and I'm not going to take sides here because like I like you said, I'm not there either, but looking at this picture, I can say, you know, size wise, I don't know, man. You know, there is just some things he's, the, come all's not going to be able to do just the sheer volume of size. He's taking a, I don't know, I mean, huge fan of his, though, personally. So I'm kind of buying this, you know. And, and, you know, you go, you know, old school judging, like I would, is you got seven poses. Yeah. And I'm, it's muscular. So you got eight poses. So, you know, who wins the most poses? And maybe, you know, front double, a keen, front, last spread. I don't know. I was just say, you know, a keen pretty fucking big. Yeah. I don't know. I just, you know, I just, you know, and then maybe give both of the back shots to come all. Okay. I could do that. Yeah. So, and then you got the ab thigh. I don't know. I don't really remember either one of their ab side. I have to look at it again. But you know what I mean? Maybe the need to do that. Maybe a keen just comes out on top, you know? I don't necessarily have a problem with it. I do want to give a shout out to Quentin, though. Yeah. Quentin's a great guy. And he, he, he, I fucking looked great, man. And, you know, to pull out a top three against those two dudes, that's, um, that's quite an accomplishment, you know? Quentin looked great. I mean, look at that physique. Like, he could have won. They could have just a 5ly put em first and just said, Oh, he was a, he was the best combination of shape, structure, and condition. Yeah. And he was big enough. They could have easily given him the win. And said, yeah, he's not as thick in the chest and back, depth wise as a keen, but he's big enough. His legs aren't a problem. His arms aren't any kind of problem. His structure shape, everything about him is like a limpia level. He looks fantastic. He just needs, you know, I said, the judge isizing. He's a bit more size from the back and a bit more thickness. But he had, he ticked so many other boxes. They could have given them the win anyways. Yeah. And, you know, you're bringing up a point, too, that at that level, it really is a lot of time splitting hairs. I mean, like every single one of these guys, they're freaking, these are the best guys in the world. So yeah, I guess I'm just, I'm, I'm with you, and then maybe give people a little bit of a break as far as the judging goes. Although it sucks when you see somebody, like, I would imagine the storyline if Kamal could have gone in there and won this thing. Like that would have been huge news across everything. Yeah. Yeah. I know. Hey, what's the deal on Clarita? He's going to, he's waiting to hear if he's allowed to do both the open end to 12, right? Uh, yeah, I'm not sure what the deal is. He put a post up today. Okay. I said, listen, unless you hear it from me, it's fake news. Okay. I will announce, I will announce soon. Yeah. I'm waiting to hear back. Okay. That would be incredible, wouldn't it? Yeah. You know, but it would be great for him to do it because it would be first, first person ever do it. You know, and super hard core. Yeah. And also like, I don't know. I think body builders have a, well, they have a reputation for doing it, but I think a lot of them. They're, they're just too, um, you know, they'd be like, I don't know how to put it. Like, I think some of them could be doing more with their careers. Huh. Okay. And that would be a maximizing thing to do. Yeah. Yeah. What? Fucking everything. Like, that's like, hey, I'm here to make some, I'm here to make a name. I'm here to make noise. I'm here to make as much money as I possibly can while I'm in this game. And it's all about the long, I'm just all about doing everything I can't shake. Every hand do every show do both Olympias. Fucking. Yeah. That's, that's the, I like that attitude. I do too. I like him a lot. Yeah. He's always been just such a hard worker. He's not a guy that causes any kind of drama, really. He's really saying he's literally just like eating his food and working his ass off and growing. And even from before he, like he became, what he is now, like he was always strong. He was always training hard. He was always eating his food. Like he was always just like, I'm pointing. So I mean, super hardcore. Yeah. Yeah. I like yeah. He's, I would say like he's, he's one of the guys that like embodies hard court to me. I would agree. Sistently dedicated constantly. Yeah. You know, yeah. You know, when here's stories about like, Clarita being out hammered in Vegas and fucking, you know, like throwing money at strippers and fighting. You just, you know, you know, you don't, you don't, you just, he's a type of guy. You know, he's like fucking bodybuilding. Yeah. Yeah. So I like that. Okay. You want to do some YouTube questions? Yeah. I'm going to stop into him. We might have to like wrap it fire some of these. That's fine. I don't mind. Wrap it fire. Because we have so many here. All right. Now, I'm not sure on this one. So you might have to, we might have to pull up picks. Question for the crew. Would you rather have Dorian's lats and hair from circa 92 Olympia or circa 93 Olympia? Has to be the lats. Has to be the hair and lats. No. No, subbing. So I know he grew that mallet. Was that it was the, he had the mallet in 92. Okay. Yeah. Okay. The mallet 92. And, and, but I don't know, I mean, the lats were insane in both. Yeah. Years. I mean, there were a little bigger in 93. Okay. But I'd go, I'd go 93 because the hair was not a mallet. It was, you know, I wouldn't want to have a mallet right now. It's kind of, it's back though, I think. You can do it. Yeah. You can do it. So, well, yeah. Get the bumps to the mustache too. Yeah. Yeah. I'm a little too old for that buddy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. How many 46 year olds do you see in like Jim Shark Tank Topps? Hmm. That's true. But I do, no. I do see. I think a good deal of 46 year olds with mallets. So there is that. Yeah. But they're not doing it. Never cut them. Yes. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You had a follow up. He says does Arnold have the best packs ever to this date in our beloved bodybuilding history. The best pack. The best pack, sever. Talking about that. He, while, I mean, his packs are legendary. Let's just put it that way. It's hard to compare good packs. There's lots of good packs. We hate he had great fucking packs. Yeah. He did. You know what I mean? He's just fucking Christ, you know. But yeah. We can just say Arnold's a king of the packs. I have no problem with that. I don't. Okay. We'll go with it. You know. They were very sweeping. You know, the front double. They had that real sweeping out like long wide look. He had a great chest. Yeah. Big barrel rib cage. All right. Look at that. We got through a question pretty quick. There. There's no dusty. We're more fish. We're more fish. You know. Okay. What's something? You used to do yourself that you now pay someone else to do since becoming more successful. Well, I do everything for my business myself. But for the gym, I'm so fucking happy. I've got to give a shout out to my friend Rahean. Okay. He's our friend, everybody's friend. But we have hired him to do the Instagram for the gym. Oh, no. Why? I suddenly have like at least an hour a day of just new time now. That's cool. I was mainly running it. Like the other guys would you know, chip in and help. But I was mainly running it. And I was just frantically trying to repost stories as fast as possible twice a day. Yeah. Just to not miss any. But I had no time to like, you know, do creative posting or like, you know, pro shops, stories like, hey, coming by this and coming by that. And you know, look what we have and, you know, new product in like I wasn't doing a That stuff. I was just frantically answering messages twice a day because it would just get insane. Yeah. And we hired Rahean. So now he's handling it and it's been awesome. I just opened it once a while and I look and everything's answered and reposted and taking care of it. It's a beautiful thing. He's speaking of which Steve did a check. He's speaking of what he's been thinking about. Yeah. We still got to talk about two 12 division because that was fucking crazy. I didn't catch much of that, but I saw his name in the list. And I was like, all right, man, he pulled out a, he got eight pulled out a top 10 for being a guy who wasn't even a pro not too long ago. That's pretty cool. That's a good month ago. So yeah. Well, so it kind of suck because after the show, they told him he was seventh. Oh, no kidding. Yeah, like, because he called me and he's like, yeah, I just talked to, I just talked to Tyler Man, you know, seventh and I was like, oh, yeah. And then like he came out at eight. So I don't know what happened. But anyways, we were a little disappointed with the call out. Okay. Because I mean, he looked really good. Like he looked really fucking good. And so, you know, we're a little bit, a little bit sucked. And then the thing that kind of sucked was, you know, when they, they did a top, they did a six man. We did a six man first call out. Okay. And then they, they put them away and they did the second call out, which was another six guys. There's dead O.C. It's nice and shredded like useful and hard. Tiny ways to. Yeah. You got another one. Yeah. Another another picture. Yeah, throw a couple up. Would, would be a good shot for me to pull up here. I got, I want to help you see. How about this? Double set back, double's good. I put this. All right. Yeah, I got a side chest here. Let me grab this side chest because I'm seeing his leg looks really solid from inside there. He's got some heels on him, man. Yeah, he's got a great physique, man. You know, he was nice and ripped and full. And so yeah, good package. I mean, we're really happy with the look. He's better than he was when he turned pro and he was about, like almost ten pounds heavier. Okay. And he was a big shot. You know, he was pretty tight, man. Had the glutes and everything. So he's going to Dallas. Yeah, see. You know, he looks good. Glutes are ripped. Hands are ripped. You know, what's going to be, what's going to be the plan for Dallas from here? What just try to get, you know, you know, at whatever one wants fuller and harder. Yeah. You know, it's turn the dials. You know, a little bit try to, you know, can he, can he look a little Grainier, can he get a little more busting out in the packs and sort of thing. He just got to push it a little bit. Yeah. So yeah, that's the plan. But yeah, we're hoping for first call out. And then when they, you know, when they, they pull out the third to six. Yeah. And they do another look at them. They could have added people because they only had four guys in that line up. And they could have added and like mixed it up, you know, who knows? A guy's in seventh and eighth might have been able to mix it up with six and fifth. And, you know, that's always fun. But they didn't do that. So that was a bit of a bummer. But the feedback was crazy. And the judges told him like, we really want to see you again. And he's like, oh, I'll be in Dallas. So that's cool. So it's looking good. And I want to give a shout out to another, another Canadian Cody Drowbot who landed in fourth. Oh, no. And I got to give a shout out to Cody because he's a great guy and a friend of mine for many years. He's one of those younger body builders from the city that I, I'm from. Okay. And I watched him come up like the regional level and the provincial level and the national level. And get his pro card and then make his pro debut and land in the in fourth spot. No. And so yeah, so he's he's like, you know, one of my hometown sort of buddies. So I got to give a shout out to Cody Drowbot because he came in. He's he's known for his his condition and strided muscle and you know, he's one of the, he's technically one of the smaller guys, you know. But but the packaging brings is just refined. He works with Neil Hill. They're a great team. Okay. And yeah, so you got another shot of them. He's got the sets and crazy. He's got a really cool. Just wanted to give him a little give him a little love. We should even have him on the show. He's a really good guy. It'd be cool. Let me see. You know, give these give these Canadian guys a little, a little push. We've got to have some of them on. All right. Yeah. Yeah. Here's a great shot here. Yeah. He looks really good. Yeah. You know what I mean? Like he's got a great shape and he's only going to get bigger. He turned pro at like like 196. No kidding. And I think he's like, I think he's 205 there. I don't know. Okay. Okay. But but yeah. Yeah. He was my job. I might have his weight wrong. I don't know his weights. Okay. But yeah. Anyways, show that to him. Good buddy, my. All right. Yeah. Now I just remembered Steve was there. Okay. Here's another one. This is just a comment. But I wanted to throw it up because he says, he says, How is there only 18k subs? This has become my favorite body building channel. And I am subscribed to a lot of others, too. I just wanted to say shout out to everybody because as he mentioned 18k, we hit 18k this week. Yeah. That's cool. Yeah. I'm happy to see it growing. You know, too. Me too. It's cool. My Instagram finally went up. What do you mean? So I was at 44.6. Okay. Fucking like forever. Really? And I just thought, am I like never going to grow? Like, I'm just like post my shed and nothing, nothing, nothing. And then all of a sudden one day it was 44.9. Huh. And I was like, oh my god, it moved. And it was there for months. Weird. And then and it's weird because like every day I open my Instagram and there's all these new followers. But yeah, I don't know. And then finally the other day I woke up and it's 45k. Nice. It was like two years I swear. Were you starting to feel like maybe this is my worth? Is that what you started to like, well, maybe the, Yeah. Yeah. I thought maybe the algorithm had been tuned to a point where, you know, if you're not like, oh, god. Like some of this stuff I hate on Instagram. I'm like, I wonder if they're just tuning it for this stuff I hate. And I don't do that stuff. So I'm not going to grow. Yeah. Yeah. You know, like, like, one of the cringiest things. And it's just because I'm like, I just don't get it. I don't want to be a part of it. But when people like post a video where there is a quote from a movie or a song lyric and their mouthing it, oh, you don't like that, huh? I fucking hate those. Yeah. I think they're the dumbest, silliest nonsense. Like I can't imagine doing one of those. And posting it. But people love them and other people want to watch them and laugh at them. People send them to me. They're like, look at those one. Uh-huh. And I came and watch it. Like I hit play. I hit play and it's somebody mulling like, come on, mother fucker. Like it's like a quote from a movie. Yeah. And they're mulling it. Then I just, I just exit. Huh. Exit. Don't even know what you're talking. Can't do it. Your mouth and movie quotes and song lyrics out. I'm out. I don't have a strong feeling either way. If I look at them, Paul, it actually repulses me. I have to get out like I scramble. Oh, oh, oh, oh. Well, yeah, it's weird. What about? What about? How about at a bodybuilding show when somebody like lip sinks? They'll have like Arnold on there. You know, he'll be back. I'll be back. You know, and then the person will say it. It really bothers you, huh? Can't stand it. Can't stand it. Drives me crazy. Huh. I was, I was saying, like, oh, I would, yeah, drives me crazy. Because it's, it never works. Yeah, there's never totally lined up, is it? It's never, it doesn't never looks right. And the audio of bodybuilding shows is usually terrible. Like it's not that great. It's okay if there's music, but like voices talking or a quote from a movie. Yeah. Or they'll be like gunshots pop, pop, pop, pop, pop. Yeah, well, well, you don't like the gunshots either. What about you guys on stage? You guys on stage, like, like, mouth and the, yeah, let's go to war like he's got something. Yeah. I'm just like, what? Just hit a shot. Like, what are you doing? Do you remember the, I think it was King Kamali did like the hydraulic stuff? I just offended. I just offended so many people. Well, the hydraulic stuff was movement. Okay. So that would the hydraulic stuff's okay. Gunshots, not okay. Well, you got your tongue. Got to go properly, properly, properly go back and, and you did it. Vince Taylor doing the Terminator routine. Oh, yeah. That was like awesome. Like he changed. He revolutionized posing. Vince Taylor came out at the Olympia that year and did the Terminator routine. It was like, this has changed, this changed everything. And, um, but he wasn't like, you know, you know, you know, yeah, it's just, it just doesn't work for me. And I'm, and it's so funny because I know there's people out there that are like, I just did that. I don't know. But, um, I've been seeing that at shows for decades. Oh, yeah. I don't think I'm going crazy. It's always been something I'm like, and I would never do that. I don't know. I couldn't picture you doing that. Just, not just I wouldn't see that. But you know what, Jay Color, I don't think Jay would do that either, Woody. No, I can't see him doing it. Did you ever do it? I don't think so. I don't think Jay did. Yeah. If we're wrong, I can't handle lip syncing. I lip syncing and posing routines and lip syncing or movie syncing. And that's, and that's why TikTok is so brutal. I went on, I went on a lot of that. I went on a lot of that. That's what it is. It's all like, TikTok is what is the trendiest, silliest thing happening. And now we're just going to show you a thousand of them. Yeah. That's why I hate that. It's so invasive and just like, grading. What if you realized you're like, okay, I'm at 45. But if I were to do some lip syncing, I could get to 60 by, you know, September. Then I just got a bunch of people that like lip syncing following me. For no reason. Yeah, that's true. I don't care. I got a training one here. Do they buy mutant product and use my code? Bigger on 20. If they're doing the lip syncing thing, I'm going to guess probably not. You know, I don't know. All right, you know, question for the next show. The hamstring drop, which shows when you're in your side chest. What exercises would you recommend to get that drop? I already have RDL, lying seated ham, lying and seated hamstrings, curls as main compounds for leg days. And those are high rep sets. Will it be just a matter of time for them to grow? This is my first proper off season when I didn't get the rest. And he says, food intake is high. So this is, this is, this is, and no offense at all, but this is rookie stuff. And, and, and, and I want to try to help everybody here. Um, There is no exercise for hamstring drop. Just like there is no exercise for hamstring drop. There's no exercise for bicep peak. There's no exercise like that. It's just get the muscle bigger. That's all. If someone has great hamstring drop, it means that they have a, They're lucky enough to have rounder muscle bellies in their hamstring. So there's a kind of an enhanced shape to work with from the start. And, and B, they've got lots of muscle in their hamstring. Yeah. You know, so those are the only two things that matter is how bigger your hamstrings and your genetic shape. You know, there might be a little bit more of a bulky belly and, you know, two out of three heads. You might get lucky. Maybe you're lucky in all three heads are kind of fat. Yeah. You know, and then you got real big hamstrings like Tom Prince, you know. Yeah. But, um, you know, hamstring drop is just get your legs big, man. Yeah. Yeah. And also your doctor's size makes a difference because you're squishing that leg against the other leg. The push it out behind you. So the more a doctor you have, the more you can kind of force like mash your legs together. And, um, and push your hamstring out on the posing because there's a skill to it for posing as well. Agreed. That's what I was going to say too. Yeah. Because like, if you think about like, I mean, I'd take it off to back for a minute. Like when you first try to hit a rear double bicep, first thing you do is like squeeze everything together, right? And then your upper back looks real narrow. You got it. You got it. You got to let it like hang out. You got to push that out. And that's the same thing I think with the ham. You don't want to flex the hamstring because that pulls it out. No, you know. It's funny because I always disliked Ronnie Coleman's side chest. Really? Huh. Yeah. Ronnie Coleman did his side chest and he did like three things that annoyed me. And one of them was he flexed his hamstring. Oh, yeah. So he would set his leg up and flex his whole leg. So he didn't really have a crazy drop. I mean, it was big enough of a drop just because his leg was so fucking big. Right. Right. But his hamstrings would be all tight and corded out. And they looked shredded, which is cool. But I was sought to side chest isn't for showing your hamstring shreds. Yeah. The side chest is for showing like like that's what you want. So then you put like J. Cutler next to him in the side chest and J would let his hamstring relax. Yeah. And I was sought that like the side leg looked better on on guys at their hamstring. Hang. You know. The greed and Ronnie used to kind of flex his hamstring. And I was bothered me because I thought what would it let what what is leg look like if you just let it hang like how great. Like what it just be ridiculous. Yeah. You know like member Tom Prince, you know. Yeah. And so I always really modeled myself after like I was found that to be like a real focus point with posing like I would really for that like I did everything I could to push as much a doctor back and crank that over and and I was always told I had a great side leg when I competed like I had good drop on my hamstring. But I never didn't have a specially huge legs. I think I just knew how to pose them. That and you hit a very small waist in in there's a relationship thing there, right? Yeah. You know, yeah. Leg wide leg looks wider when your waist looks like it's a third of that size. And then another thing just quick on posing because I have to say it. Yeah. My number one grievance with side chest is guys who stick their ass out. Huh. Okay. I fucking hate that. Yeah. I drives me crazy like you're literally ruining the pose when you stick your ass out like that and they think it makes her glute more strided. It's like I don't give a shit. It looks terrible. Your body is just like sat on it. Yeah. Pull your pull your hip underneath you and so on top of it. Yeah. Look at it. Like look at all, you know, most guys look at all the big guys doing like Arnold with sit on, you know, his his glute was pulled his hip was underneath him, you know, it wasn't out behind it. Yeah. So when guys do their side chest and stick their butt out, I drive me crazy. Pull it in underneath you. That's what I always say. Looks way better. Yeah. I go with that. Yeah. I'll take that one. It's an obsession guys have for trying to get shorter all the time. It doesn't always make you look better. Yeah. There's some poses where it's great to be huge. Side chest is one of them. I don't think everyone needs to squat way down on their side chest. People are way too obsessed with that. I think it depends. I think it depends on the person I guess, you know, yeah, for sure. Some guys like if they stand up a little bit, they're like still just as big. Hmm. And they look like now they're like, you know, because some guys have those frames where you're like fuck you's that frame dude. You don't need to be five six. You're fucking awesome at five ten. Just dominate everybody, you know. I will say this if I were to and I've seen this on other people. If I if I were to squat too far down, then it starts taking away from the hamstring. I think it's like the whole laid gets pulled more. Yeah. All right. Let me see what else we got here. Well, the more you squat down the longer your hamstring. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Question for the next episode. What is one set? Oh, one set that six out in your mind. Whenever you think of the hardest set you've ever done. For example, mine was six plates per side times 60 on the leg press. Thanks guys. Great question. Um, I can tell him what the scariest set I ever did was. Yeah. Yeah. That's easy. Yeah. It's on video too. And it's on YouTube. No shit. And most people have no idea how mentally taxing it was because of the situation. But it was I trained legs with James Hollings head at Kings gym. Okay. For mute non-emission. And I told James I want to do legs with you because I'm coming back from my quad Ter. Yeah. And I really need a goal. I really really want to know that in three months I'm training legs with you. And I want really to like put this behind me. And I need this visit to Kings gym to train with you to be like like it has to be because I, I know I was training as hard as I could. But I was just it was in the back of my mind the whole time, right? Of course. And and and I just said I need to leave this behind. Okay. And so he knew that he's like cool bro. We'll do legs. We'll fucking smash it up proper. I could hear him say those exact words too. We'll do it up. We'll do it up proper. And I was like, okay. So anyways, it's this it's we did a rest pause set on the leg press with bands and it was like our first quad exercise. Okay. And and you know, I just I hadn't been under that much weight. It was the most weight I'd put on a leg press with these big fat bands on there. We didn't know like you couldn't calculate how much it was because of the big fat bands. So I really didn't have any reference because I knew all my poundages that I've been using right. And all of a sudden we're using all these like the gym is crazy. Some plates are 25 kilos, some are 20. Right. And that it drives crazy. That it to be that is not your style right there. And you're out of your comfort zone. And we're just pilot plates on. So like I don't even know which plates are 20s and which are 25. So if you count the plates, you're like, it still doesn't. You still don't know how much is on there. And we had a barbell across it with more plates on. And then we had big fat green bands. And so I didn't really know how much was on there. And I just had to fucking. You know, and it was scary. It was scary because it was so much weight. And it was a rest-pause set. So it was on the drop set. Okay. So as if three sets to failure with the same weight. And it was a bit heavy. I got I think I got like eight. And then rested 30 seconds. I got like three or four. Okay. And then rested 30 seconds and got like two. With him spotting me on the lap on the like it was literally a single with a four-strip. Yeah. And racked it and nothing, nothing ripped off. Nice. And I just remember after that set was over. I was like, oh fuck. If that quad tenon can take that, I'll be fine. Huh. It was awesome. That was scary. I was really like, I was like shaking a bit. And then I threw up after the workout. After we finished leg curls I threw up. And I remember thinking like yeah, it was really hot in there. And I drank a ton of fluid. Like I was sweating like fucking crazy and it's gotten water. But then I realized afterwards I was like, My anxiety level was off the chart. Yeah. It's probably probably part of why I threw up. You were preparing for that for literally months. And you had like to you there was so much on the line. You know? Yeah. It was just a personal thing. Yeah. And I knew there was going to be on camera. And I've, you know, no one wants to train on camera and not be able to train like hard. And you know, so yeah, that was the scariest set ever did. Because I remember we were putting plates on and I was like, Shh. I remember the thought crossed my mind. What if it rips off again? And I have to fly home with a torn quad. Yeah. Oh God. That would be the worst trip ever. You know? So. That's a good one. That's a good. I can't think of one off hand. I can't think of one single set where I'm like, oh, that's. Yeah. I couldn't either. Like I just happened to have that one in my memory because of everything. But other than that, I mean, there's just been so many hard sets. You know, you've been training super hard for so many years. Yeah. They all kind of. You trained with so many guys that train super hard. Like, you know, he's crazy. I got to tell you when I came out there and we trained shoulders together. I had not been hitting shoulders and obviously shoulders. So it's like there was never there was no single set in that workout where I was like scared. But right, I hadn't been hitting shoulders hard for a while. Like for me, shoulders had always been a strong point. And I started taking away from them in order to focus more on chest. And after we had that workout, I was like, huh, because my shoulders were fried too. Like, and it's not often that your shoulders get fatigued and sore. Right. I was like, you know what? I got to put more focus into shoulders after this. Yeah. Yeah. That's cool. It's good to hear. It's good workout. Yeah. All right. Let's be here if you're. Am I making up for Dusty's lack of opinion? You're pretty opinionated. I'm trying to be a little more opinionated. I'm trying to be a little more opinionated. I'm trying to be a little more opinionated. I'm trying to be a little more opinionated. I'm trying to be a little more opinionated. We had a few people that didn't like the resting bitch face video. Like we pulled that little clip out. We got some thumbs down on the YouTube short. Yeah. And I got some like irritated people and message me. They're like, I don't want to talk to people to gym. Yeah. And I'm like, that's not what it was about. Yeah. That wasn't what it was about. You know, I pulled my hat down and put my headphones into to three people. Like, but it was about people that like kind of proudly go through regular life. You know, wearing purposely wearing a face that they know makes everyone think they're mad at them. There's people out there that do that. I hear them, they love it. They take pride in it. The rest of us got it. Yeah. My joyousness. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Ooh, here we go. Question for the next show. Has there ever been a band you really liked, but seeing them live, ruined them for you. I saw Everclear live and it was so bad. I just can't listen to them anymore. I like what they used to. Yeah. So there were, well, I didn't ruin the band for me, but it definitely was like notably bad concert. So the first one I actually blame the sound guys and the venue. But I went and saw the pumpkins, the smashing pumpkins. Oh, I heard they're terrible in their fucking hayday. And it was on the melancholy tour that double album they had, you know, with all those great songs. Yeah. It was just amazing music. And I love that album. Like those, sign these dream and melancholy were just those, that's just magical music. And I went to that concert and it just sounded like a wall of shit. Yeah. I've heard that about them. Just terrible. Like the guitar couldn't differentiate which guitar was doing which part. And the bass and drums was just like a mush. The mix was terrible. And we were in like a big tin building. It was in like, you know, like, like a big, you know, kind of arena type of thing. But it was like, like had that echoey sheet metal sort of fucking booming sound. There's just brutal concert. Yeah. And then because of that, I never went to see them again. Like I had chances to see the pumpkins again. And I'm like, ah, this isn't the albums. Yeah. I heard that. You're not doing it. You heard it. Yeah. Yeah. And it's funny because they never did a live album. No, they didn't did that. Like they never had a big, you know, like AC DC Punched Out a Couple of Live albums. Yeah. And they're like amazing. Like they sound fucking great and it's tight from beginning to end and the mix is perfect. And you know, like lots of bands punch out a live album. And that's my litmus test for how good a band is, right? Yeah. And then another concert that I saw that was terrible was the offspring. Really? Okay. So they're kind of from punk roots. So the band was great. Yeah. The band was great. They were great. But Dexter couldn't sing that day, man. He could not hit any notes. He was way off on everything. And there's a lot of like high notes in the offspring. Oh, like he's like screaming. He's sort of got a higher pitch voice and it's, you know, he's got a lot of stuff. He's got to hit to make those songs sound right. He was just fucking brutal. I remember thinking three songs in. I was like, is he like going to warm up? Oh, yeah. Like is he like going to get better? Because occasionally you notice that. Like one thing with a lot of live Nirvana records. The Nirvana has several live concerts that have been released, right? Right. And the thing that I think is, Kurt's voice is always a little rough on the first two songs. Like, rough her. Because he's just, you know, like he, I don't think he's backstage warm up. You know, no, no. You know, they just like, you know, smoke and cigarettes. Like that's fine. You know, right. And so, you know, I remember watching the offspring and just waiting. And it just didn't get any better. He fucking sucked. It's like this brutal. And the guys that sing back up, like, you know, there's a little bit of backup in there. They're fine. Huh. So I can't think of any. I can't think of like a single time where I went to a concert in felt let down. I feel like every time I've gotten into it. And then I like the band even more after that. Like literally every single time. I'm probably forgetting something, but I think every concert I've been to is good. Yeah. Yeah. One of, I will say this, one of my most pleasant surprises ever was a buddy called me up. And was like, hey, do you want to go see Miles Kennedy and slash like it's slash as band? He's got Miles Kennedy singing, right? It's like, that, you know, slash has put out a lot of albums over the years, right? He had slash his snake pit for a while. And then it was just slash, I think. But anyways, Miles Kennedy sings for him a lot. And I was like, yeah, sure. Let's go see him. So we went and saw them in a little bar with probably 500 people. And I didn't really know how Miles Kennedy really even sounded at the time. I hadn't been paying attention to slash as solo stuff. Yeah. It was fucking awesome. The band was awesome. Miles Kennedy was great singer. And then they did like five, I mean, they probably did 20 songs. And like five or six of them were guns and roses songs. Okay. And Miles Kennedy literally sounded better than Axel. Well, okay. That doesn't, okay. Yeah. He sort of tried to sound like Axel, like he gave it the same swagger. Yeah. It was like, this is awesome. He's fucking better. Because I remember the live guns and roses stuff was a little rough. Because Axel was a fucking disaster. And I was like, this is great. I'm 20 feet from slash. He's like standing right in front of me. And Miles sounds awesome. And they sound great. That's cool. Of it, you know? Yeah. Good time. You ever get into like the mosh pit and stuff when you're younger. Did you just go to listen? Yeah. I remember my last pit. And I decided this is the last pit. Okay. And it was, I went to see the food fighters. Oh. And it would have been like, oh, five. Because it was the double that in your honor double album. Yeah. So it would have been like, oh, five. And that was to me like the end of peak food. Like that was to me. They're last great album. And then it like sort of like, you know, they all had too many kids. And the music just got a little more like radio eagles sort of sure. I could see that. But I sort of see like in your honor as like my sort of ending for my window of where I really Love the food fighters. And I went and saw them live and we went right in the pit right to the front three people in front of me and then Dave Girlstander right there. And I remember thinking for like the first five, six songs. This is fucking awesome. That's fucking awesome. And then by like song 10, I was like, I am soaked with other people's sweat. Yes. I have someone else's sweat in my eye. A lot of other people sweat in your eye. I have someone spit in my mouth. Oh. I have someone's fucking sweat down the side of my face. I just got a fucking shoe in the ear. Yeah. I just fucking and I remember just thinking, This is the point where I'm a little too old for this. You had enough. This is enough. You know, like, I mean, I guess I would have been 30 that year. Okay. Let's like, let's start off with a bunch of money. To hang it up, you know? Good, good, good age to be like, you know what? We're done doing this. You know who never has hung it up. You know, you know, Dave Calig. Dave Calig, good friend of mine. He's never given up. In fact, he went on this like, he's like his, his like kind of midlife crisis, a slayer tour where he followed slayer around for like their entire last tour. And he was in the pit for literally. I think in fact, he said he had like if they played two nights, he would go in the pit one night and then he'd have a ticket for his wife to sit in the back, you know, and like in the chairs. And then the next night he would go and sit in the seats with her. That's incredible. Now did the band did, because a lot of those guys, you start falling a band. They really noticed and you like get to talk to them and stuff. Oh yeah, if this Dave's like a bodybuilder still. So he's a big dude. He's in the pit. So like he's got all sorts of pictures and stuff hanging out. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's awesome. I know the bands are great with those people that travel around. They're usually really great with those guys. Yeah. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. And he is, if you do that, if you're going to follow a band, talk to the road crew. Not to talk to the, because if they're the same roadies, right? Right. So try to talk to the road crew and that's a really good way to get. Like let them know, like, came in. This is my foreshow, like in foreignites. I'm falling you guys around. They'll tell the band. Yeah. All right. See what else we got here. Ah. Ch-ch-ch-ch. Question for the next episode. Oh, what style of t-shirts do you guys buy? What I mean is almost every t-shirt I buy holds it shape until about three washes in where I will put it on. And it'll look like I am wearing a bell. The bottom bell's out drives me insane. I fucking hate that. It's a worst. That's a worst. I almost wear nothing, but nice old school T by the way. Thank you. Appreciate it. I, I, I almost wear nothing, but like the tribe like, the tribeland stuff now. You know, like, you know, like the tribeland teas, the tribeland, the blend teas that are thin and light and kind of stretchy. I like those. Yeah. That's, that's all I want. I don't want anything else. I want to be like Mark Zuckerberg. We're exactly the same shirt and pair jeans every single day. Like, that's what I want. Just all tribeland shirts. Every, every single shirt. Just fine with it. I don't need to wear anything else. I don't, I, you know, I, I, I, I, I used to, I used to when I was really big, you know, I used to like the big boxy cotton teas, you know, for leg day. Yeah. But I just don't, I still look good in those anymore. Like, I got a couple that are pretty cool now. They're like, just still pretty cool. But when I wear them, I'm like, ah, just kind of look like, like, like, it looks like I'm kind of fat. Like, like, my shoulders are narrower, but the shirt still hangs like super wide, right? So I just don't like how they look on me anymore. My, my body shape and stuff is different now. I, I feel way better in just like kind of a real thin light, tribeland shirt, you know. I'm hesitant to ever, like, I'll see a company that I like and I, like a, you, a YouTube channel or something. I'm like, I want to buy their shirt, you know, support them plus have that cool shirt. But I'm very hesitant to, because you don't always know what you're going to get. And if it's a shirt that you don't like, it's a shame. You know, you first of all, you spent $30 or more on it. But second of all, it's like a material. And that's one of the reasons I haven't done shirts yet for the channel. I want to be positive that they're good shirts because that would be the worst. I would have like crappy shirts that we're trying to sell, you know. Yeah. Yeah. And like sometimes that happens. You get around to shirts and you're like, he's aren't quite as good of a shirt as the last round, but you know, you still do your best to, you know, like the, you know, like the bellic canvas stuff and like, you know, you're good, you know, like those are always great. If companies just use like, you know, that type of shirt. Next level, that's a good one that you can get. Yeah, they have a couple different models. There's like, you know, you know, yeah. Definitely. And you know what else is I used to love baseball teas. Oh, yeah, yeah. But I don't know. I feel a little skinny in them now. Yeah. I don't know if I like wearing them anymore. I think it depends on the color. Because if you have like, if you have the, the somebody would tell me this one time and I think there's some truth to it. So white, like if you have the white sleeves that will accentuate your arms. With the black central part, you know, then your that wastelix. That's exactly right. You do the opposite and you're screwing yourself, you know. That's why baseball teas are hard because, you know, we go to order them and, and most of them come with a white body and colored sleeves. Yeah. They're not bi builders, which is cool if you're not bloated from ramming food. Yeah. Right. But, you know, if you're a body builder and you want to look good all the time and you eat a lot, you don't want to white body shirt. You know, you want to black body shirt and white sleeves. Yeah. That's ideal. Yeah. Yeah. All right. What do you got here? So I will do a two hour leg day, excuse me, leg workout and go straight into an eight hour shift. Going up and down stairs and never really sitting down other than for two five minute breaks to eat. My legs have grown just fine. The people scared of doing cardio post leg day or scared of doing it in the morning. Are they, are they, are they the ones that are doing it right? Or are they just pussy's? Well, people do worry too much about all this stuff. There's, so one thing I deal with is, you know, a lot of times a client will be like, hey, you know, I have to train early tomorrow. So I don't know what to do. I'm like, okay, well, what do you mean? And they're like, well, I have to get up and do my cardio and then eat my breakfast and then train all before nine o'clock. Yeah. And I'm like, no, just get up eat your breakfast, go to the gym train. You're cardio after your workout and then good on with your day. Yeah, you have a life to live. That's completely fine. And so people are really, really worried about this stuff that is not big picture at all. And they're willing to like horribly inconvenience themselves. Hmm. Do things a certain way just because of like this dogma that's been pounded into them that they must do morning cardio. It's like, yeah, if you like morning cardio hit, but if there's that one day that comes up where you're in a fucking bind, just do what you've got to do. This train and do your cardio like you cannot hesitate on that stuff. It is a waste of all of your energy to hesitate on it. Just do it. Yeah, you know, and I always say getting proper sleep because like there's people that would be like, I have to get up two hours extra early tomorrow because I have to do my cardio and then eat and then train. I'm like, no, no, you're sleep, Trump's all that. Yeah. Trump's all that. Oh, with you. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, so as far as this guy, he's right, a lot of people are, well, I wouldn't use a word pussy. That's a little mean, but they're just they're just like overly concerned. They're overly worried about how can't do my cardio after my workout. That's catabolic. It's like, no, it's all big picture. You're not doing it chronically. You're not doing an hour. And then how many carbs it and how many calories are you on? Like, unless your diet's really really severe, you'd be completely fine. And then a horrendous amount of post workout cardio. And I never felt like I shrunk from it. You know, what's the most cardio you've ever had to do in a prep per day. I've done like little stints where I would like a seat over sometimes say, hey, we have a rest day coming up. So let's go really low carbs and do two hours of easy cardio. Okay. Really, you know, just steps, just step it out, low carbs and steps. And, but that wouldn't be like a, hey, this month we're doing two hours of cardio. Right. You know, the most cardio I ever consistently did was with Chad Nichols, you had me doing 45 twice a day for like a little while. But it was short. It was short. And I usually didn't go over an hour unless I was kind of like the end maybe an hour. And then like an easy 20 minute walk later in the day or something. Yeah. You know, like walk the dog for 20 minutes longer than normal. You know, I feel like people are getting that more now. Like, like the walking the dog getting steps in like people. I think are more aware of the benefit of that. For just before it was like you always had to be on the treadmill to make it count. Yeah. And, and, you know, like another thing, you know, people weren't taking that like I would have clients. I remember I had this one client. She was like, why don't you have me doing cardio? And I was like, cause you're a nurse and you worked 12 hours shifts and you're a beautiful fucking day and you told me you're getting like 20,000 steps. And she was probably getting shaped too, right? So like, and she's like, oh, I just feel like I should be doing cardio with the gym and I was like, what you, like, let's just, let's just see, let's just see, you know. Yeah. So, so there's, there's all that sort of stuff. People kind of tied the things they think there's these rules they have to follow. But yeah. But he's right. People are overly scared, you know, they're, they're a little too worried. You can do anything for a short period of time. Yeah. I mean, I feel like, you know, Dusty has said before that the only, the only way he could know what his limits are is by finding them. You know, and I think that we're probably talking to people here in that situation. They just don't know, you know, and that they have that fear. But like, you can do a lot. You can push your body real far before you actually lose muscle. Yeah. And the good thing, this, this, this question comes from someone who probably doesn't need to ever get on a treadmill. Yeah. No. You know. Oh, this is just a comment. I had to put it up here because it was good. Oh, I loved that. Yeah. Smells like, trend spirit. We should, we should do a shirt for the show. Have you a good one? I mean, good one. Yeah. All right. So many questions this week. Um, always a good show guy is question for the next show. Have you ever dropped a client because they just wouldn't get their intensity up to a decent level in the gym? Yes. Really? Yeah. Yeah. I've just told people like, hey, man, like, I really love helping people. And I'd love to help you. But I just don't feel like I can really do much because, you know, you like to train a certain way. And that's cool. It's really great exercise. And, you know, it's good that you're in here and it's going to be great for you to just keep doing that. But like, you know, if you're going to pay me money, you're going to have to like do this other stuff to get in gains. Like, you know what I mean? That's sort of conversation. Yeah. Yeah. And, you know, sometimes people are like, oh, yeah, I guess you're right, you know, but I mean, it does get to the point where you just don't have the time to, you're like, fuck, in order to help this guy would literally have to go spend a bunch of time with him in the gym. And I just don't have time for that. Yeah. You know, and I don't like taking people's money. Like, I know there's trainers out there that have, you know, 200 clients and 100 of them are terrible at check-ins. And the money just keeps rolling in. Right. I mean, hey, I applaud their system. But, but I, I just, yeah, I just can't, I don't like doing that. You know, there's a couple people that I've like said, hey, you know, like if your check-ins don't get like more regular, like, I'm going to really start feeling bad about taking it. Yeah. You know, so it's hard to keep track of what's going on, too. Like if you don't check in for a few weeks and then you check in and kind of like, the analogy I always use is like if we were riding in the car and I took a nap and we're at a city that I don't know where we're at. And then all of a sudden I wake up and you're like, hey, here, take the wheel. I don't know what direction to go because I haven't been following the long, you know? Yeah. Yeah. That's exactly right. It's exactly right. I know that way, too. Yeah. What about you? Have you like, what's the last time you told a client like, hey, man, I just can't help you anymore. I've had it a few times and you know, here's a thing. So one area that I think I've changed in that respect is and it was after talking to skip Hill about this one time because, you know, sometimes people are doing the best that they can and it mean it like, and let's talk about like even like following the diet, you know, I've had people that come back and they're like, hey, so I did like 75% of what you asked you on the diet, but then I also did this in this every day. And it's kind of like, you know, are you wasting my time a little bit, you know, but maybe that's the best they're capable of in the words that skip to use was, it's not my place to tell somebody that they're not capable of something. And if I were to shut that off, shut that possibility off and cut them off and tell them they couldn't do it, then they're definitely not going to rise to that level. So like I always try to keep that in mind with people too and I do have a few people I work with that aren't that aren't nailing it, you know, but but that's my hope is like, well, you know what they're doing the best they can and if they can eventually get to that point, you know, I'm going to learn our own place, that's what I tell myself we're all in our own place, I can't expect somebody that intensity thing though in the gym is tough man because how, you know, like you said without actually being there without actually training and even though I've even done that like I had a guy locally who just he's a younger guy, great genetics had this crazy wide back like insane and he was like not even really eating right or just like he just was lucky, you know. And and if he could have trained hard like he could do so much and that's what he wanted was to be a bodybuilder and I brought him over to the house and we trained legs and we did we warmed up we did like some hamstring curls we went on the the excuse me the hacksquat and after we did like one all out set like the look on his face was terrified like he did he listened to me and he actually completed the set and he pushed himself with the look I was afraid of a guy and he was like oh shit he might leave right now like this this might be he might walk out of here. And he was like I can't like I can't believe you just made me do that like it just in it maybe it wasn't for him you know so right that's funny I have a client who's a really good friend of mine. And I remember when he first started sending me videos like 10 years ago yeah he for it sent me videos and like he had good form and he had he was doing all the right exercises you know like I could tell he's watch blood and guts. He you know like he's doing the you know good pull down good rose you know good movements but you know there was no failure in any of the sets. Yeah there were all this like eight reps eight reps eight reps and I was like man you just need to turn this up because he had a good little build you know. And I was like you got to push this and he's like you think so and I was like just yeah like you got to push this in the video started getting like. Where he hit failure and like hold tension and then you just you know I get some forced rap videos where he's getting a spot and. You know this starts to happen and here we are you know 10 years later and he's you know one a couple of shows. And he's like you know doing like six seven plates on the pendulum squat and you know like he's like a monster in the gym now you know like moving big weights squat and six plates like that sort of shit and so it's really cool to just see like. That's all I really did yeah I just said man you have to train harder and that just like a night at this like chain reaction and you know 10 years later he's you know 250 pounds off season you know. Yeah so yeah it was just just got out like you know nothing happens without those last reps and he wanted it you know that's what it sounds like like he wanted it he just needed to be told like hey you can do this you know. You just remind of me of something I want to talk about yeah. There's been a lot of shows lately right so I've got a lot of inquiries you know you know as how. When a show ends everyone in that show now scrambles to find a new coach. Yeah okay so I've gotten a lot of messages lately. And I need to remind everyone. It's not your coach's job to get you ripped. That's your job. Your coach's job to help you make good decisions and guide you and give you the framework and do everything they can. To help that process occur but you have to do the work. So when you message me and you say yeah I worked with someone so but he just didn't get me ripped and I'm like that's funny he had four other people in the show that had strided glutes. So you know and and he had a girl win the bikini and he had you know blah blah blah blah blah. So your coach can only do so much. There are times when yeah your coach was terrible. I've heard some crazy stories about some big name coaches like outright neglect. Yeah what I mean like morning of the show no response. No nothing back no menu for the day of the show no water management. I don't like no talk about anything to psyched it for got about them. I've heard stories about some of the big name coaches doing that to people. So there's some. Brevis coaching going on out there. Yeah and then there's a lot of like scam artists who have no business helping someone get ready for show for sure. But but there's a lot of really well intention coaches out there the love body building and a lot of their clients look great. And you didn't look great working with them and it doesn't mean that they're that you need a new coach maybe you need to just communicate better with that coach. Yeah maybe there's maybe there's some stuff you weren't you know on the same page about maybe you need to train harder. Maybe you need to not skip cardio and not tell him and maybe you need like there's all these factors like I don't know. Like you say that coach didn't get you ripped but like did you put everything you had into it every day the whole prep to. So I don't know I guess I don't really have anything to say about it. I just want to like bring it up like when I get emails saying oh I worked with this coach and you know I just didn't get ripped. It's possible that that coach was just fucking terrible coach and did a terrible job with you. Right I mean I've seen that. I've seen guys I've had people pull me aside and they're like hey man can you look at me and I have a look at them and I'm like how many weeks out of you and they go six. And I'm like you look 12. Yeah and they're like yeah and my coach told me not to change anything and that I look great. And I'm like okay that's just terrible coaching right. Yeah but but there's other times when people they're just they're just off a bit and you know they didn't communicate well and anyways you know what I'm trying to say people like to blame the coach. I like to throw the coach under the bus you know sometimes it's deserve it sometimes it's very deserve it. But other times it's like hey man it's just you have to work harder you have to have a better mental attitude too. Like the coach can only like I remember that I've told the story about the year Chris Hasido gave me shit. He was like I'd love to I'd love to help you again man but it can't be like last prep you were a fucking mess I don't want to work with that guy. That was pretty cool that he could point that out and see that you know he's like you did you almost turn pro. Almost turn pro and you had like a horrible mindset and you were like you know not in a good spot and you didn't believe in yourself and you almost won. When we get him on the next time we we have Chris on the show I want to ask him about like that run versus the run that we all know you know I'd be interested here his perspectives. Yeah it was like the tough I'd been through like a huge break up there right so it was like a rough year and I was just trying to like you know distract from everything but just get into this prep right. Right and I just didn't realize it that's how and I you know I don't remember being like negative but I guess it was coming across like just little things like you know he said send in pictures and go yeah man I don't know both these. Yeah you know and and that wasn't me. Yeah right normally I'm like here's your picks buddy let's fucking go you know like. Here's a picks what do you want me to do you know like I guess my tone was just the whole tone of the whole prep was just like negative and kind of worried and. And you couldn't see it at the time you know like because you did. Yeah you know so yeah like your attitude is everything man like you know all the stuff going on in your brain with your own brain chemistry and all that shit your coach can't. Fix or correct that stuff. Yeah yeah the coach has a lot of experience hopefully ideally you know like you can say that as a coach if you've been doing it for a decade you've literally seen thousands of people. getting to shape you know at that point and that means that you know you've got experience and you can see the things that generally are going to you can see how to get the results you want but it doesn't always mean like if like you're saying if somebody's a little bit off. You know part of it might be do it again with them because they're going to learn to you know I mean I've seen that where especially like like you do one show. And you get feedback that could be yeah that could be all it takes then to make some tweaks and then do it again at that next show. And guess what if the season doesn't work out and you weren't happy with those calls then maybe it's time after that you know. I remember working with one guy and we did the first show and he was flat like surprise just flat I was like fuck I just I was just shocked and I was really pissed off that he was flat. Yeah, you know it's just really pissed off but he still got like second they think so he qualified for the next show which was like a couple weeks later. And then went to that show we won the overall okay at the higher level. Yeah right so he went from second in his class like three weeks later was overall winner and beat the guy that beat him because he wasn't at his best the other guy was. Yeah and then I was like you know and I remember he was upset he's like man and I'm like you're just flat man like you know and I says going to happen everybody eventually you know and came at the next show and. Fuck a nice and full and shredded and one overall that's redemption show that's nice. I remember driving home from that show. Fuck yeah I know so yeah you know you're going to run into snags and there's lots of factors man. You know part of those factors too are you know maybe he got four other people into really good shape but didn't get you in good shape part of it is like. Our own limitations is human beings and what we're capable of. I used to I feel like years ago I used to be more critical if I saw somebody on stage that wasn't absolutely peeled. I think to myself even I might not say it probably wouldn't say it to anybody but I think to myself oh I could have done a better job than that. But now I recognize like hey that might have been they might have had to do a lot to get to that point you know they might have really been scraping to make that happen. Yep, yep for sure absolutely you know. All right see those for got here. Oh yeah this one you commented on this too you responded on YouTube with this one Kevin 21 says I work out from home which I love. It's just me my music the ways however I only have free weights listening to you guys speak so fondly about particular brands of types of machines. I am I leaving gains on the table by not using machines. No there's there's there's so much you can do and everything you need need to do you you know what I mean like. I mean unless he has no leg machine access at all that's pretty difficult. Yeah, you know let's watch squats and stiff leg of deadlifts are pretty much all you got without many machines you know what I mean unless you're rigging up dumbbell leg curls are kind of funny you know weird exercises. But I mean I find machines are. How do I put this we know now that a lot of barbell exercises like especially barbell pressing aren't the best on your joints yeah the movement patterns aren't the best right. So you know we get a lot of stuff wearing tear shoulders elbows that sort of stuff from Ben Shane and stuff because how things line up dumbbells are a lot more favorable. I think you know but a lot of machines are made with really great arcs of movement now and there's like everything's lining up really well so there's like sort of that sort of stuff I think. Is great for you know what bodybuilders are doing so that it's nice to have machines obviously it's nice to have options it's nice to have variety you know remember Scott no one wants to eat the same thing every night. And listen to pizza with a knife in a fork. So yeah you just got to do what you got to do like I don't know if I had a home jam and I had some space there'd be you know dumbbells some cable pulleys a squat rack and then if he has any room it's a leg or back equipment. Yep. You know it's all I have is I have the hacksquat I mean for machines I have hacksquat leg press extension curl and then I have my pull down and I have a selector I or a chest press it converging chest press I love to squeeze one back machine in there. But really it was the leg equipment I've got a rack to and dumbbells but that it's like the leg equipment that's my and you know where it is it's like if my back is feeling off. And it's like that's the problem that's machines are nice like if you have a tweak or something. You know it's like oh I can't really do a bent over barbell row but I could do a machine you know row. I remember there was a period of time where I couldn't dumbbell press because my hip really hurt to kick up dumbbells. Yeah and it didn't even bother me on a leg day it was this weird thing where it like fucking hurt to kick up dumbbells. I could felt like there was something wrong with my hip. Yeah and so I just said fuck I just wanted to dumbbell press for a while and then I remember when I went back to them I was so weak at them. I lost like 20 pounds of dumbbell. You know yeah you know when you when you don't do dumbbell press for a while and then you just pick up heavy dumbbells. Yes. Like holy fuck like you just grab 120s and throw them up on my lap one at a time like nothing and then you don't touch them for a while and you get them off the rack and you're like. I'm getting back into dumbbell again. I'm getting stronger again and I got up to the 105s this week for like some solid reps. So I got like seven reps and they were all strong but yeah man the picking up a dumbbell is like one of the most incredible feats you can do like outside of training. You know when you've got like 120 in your hand and then you got to pick up another one and walk you know. It's a lie. Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah you get our man exercise. Yeah. I got a bunch more here still. I've see I'm actually the opposite of the limb dominant guy. I'm pretty torso dominant chest should dominant chest should back grow easily. But arms and legs grow slower. They still grow but definitely not at the same rate any tip. So he's got a strong back in chest. It's nothing to complain about there if you ask me. Yeah yeah yeah. I'll take that. I don't know. It's hard to prescribe what to do. I mean you need to do more. Right. Yeah. I don't remember who said it the other day they're like you just need to do more. Like whether it be more intensity, more weight, more hard sets, more you know need more. You technically more volume but that can come in the in like an effort way too like you know volume isn't just numbers of sets. It's also like how much is in those sets you know sure are you taking all those sets to failure or you leave in two reps on the table every single time you train you know because if you look at you think about volume like let's say you 100 pounds for 10 reps right that's a thousand pounds of volume technically right. If you leave two reps off the table it's only 800 pounds of volume. Yeah. If you do 10 sets that's 2,000 pounds of volume that you're not doing. So just by pushing out an extra rep like that effort rep on every set you can add like a thousand pounds of volume to your workout without adding any sets you know and that's just let's say you had someone that wasn't quite training to failure and they can maybe get one more rep on every set right so you can think about in terms of like how can I get more volume it's not just more sets. But think of the other things the other things that you know sometimes you got to sometimes I think of the math equation just just to give me like perspective. How about this I got a completely different take. I wonder how much body fat he has because when you're when you're heavier your arms are always going to look smaller but get down to like you know 6% and then your arms look dramatically bigger you know what I mean. Yeah, so I mean who knows how much he's got on his torso and usually hold more of their body fat on their torso around their abdomen and back and stuff. So you know I mean I've seen it where guys their arms and legs are like okay and then you diet them down. And you're like oh, as long as the legs actually pretty fucking good now. Yeah, it's like 10 inches smaller right right you know proportions right. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I wonder I wonder about that one. Alright got like five more here. We're killing it. I know man we're just ripping through these things. Um, hey Scott is it possible for someone to go the whole prep without using trend or is trend mandatory and substitutes for trend. What do you think he's asking you Scott? I'm going to say you don't need trend. You definitely you don't need trend that you can get absolutely peeled in fact. You can win a pro card without using trend. I mean say that much with absolute certainty. And fact literally and I will also say that you can place top three at a pro show without being on trend. I know that for a fact check this guy out. This guy this guy did not use trend. Yeah, you know like that was like 300 masks 400 times. 400 test that was it. Yep. Classic guy. I've I've helped a lot of classic guys. I'm barely any gear. Yeah. So I helped a classic guy that was like on 250 tests and 400 masks drawn that was his whole stack. You know fucking crazy. What about what about a guy? Because men I think people are probably going to say what would about if I'm like you know 260. What do you mean like like do you have to you know okay well be small you know. Yeah no you don't have to use trend that I did lots of shows before trend came around. I won I won the show I won an overall at a tough show. I was 244 ripped with no trend. Huh. You know I was just on test that was my poverty prep. Oh yeah. Yeah yeah. I'm test 500 to 750 at the end test a week. Yeah. They can know that yeah. No the next tab. That was it. And no trend and you know it's people trend is is very effective drug. But it's it's been given way too much credit. Yeah. Yeah. It fucking works but you can't just can't just fix everything with trend man. I agree. You know. You go to use one for your run because you mentioned you're going to North Americans. So we have to understand that not everybody who watches the show is like you know hardcore competitive bodybuilding fan. Ron. What's the NPC North Americans? Well it's actually the IFB North Americans I think. It's not is it? Yeah. I mean it's it's it's you know the same like yeah but I think it's technically got the IFB be on the poster and not the NPC because it's international show. Really? Okay. I didn't know. Yeah. It's like the international shows are IFB be in the American shows are NPC. Okay. But the North Americans is Canada and Mexico as well. So it's technically an international show. But it's in Pittsburgh every year Gary Udett operates it. Great promoter. Great show. Huge show. It's ballooned up. It starts Wednesday now. Yeah. And runs all the way to Saturday or I can't even fucking huge. But it's an awesome show. Great athletes. You see people from you know several different countries wandering around there and it's it's. Yeah. It's great. It's always like one of those all inclusive shows where everything happens in the same hotel. I like that hotel too. I just like. Yeah. It's a great show. So I'm actually not going to the North Americans now. Oh, no kidding. That's so. Yeah. So my client was going to hop into the North Americans. Yeah. And because he was getting in really great shape and he's like fuck you know that's hop in North Americans. But when he went to register. He found out that technically he's not qualified for that show because the overall that he was. Overall that he won. Was like you know, ex while ago and they changed the calendar year because it used to be like a full calendar year and now it's I don't know some technicality. Dang. So the only pro qualifier he can do this year is the Canadian nationals in October. Okay. Which is nine. It was his under nine weeks away. So instead of being four weeks out he's now nine weeks out just more time to get better. Yeah. It's only five more weeks. Yeah. And I know that sounds like a lot but when you're dieting hard and you're four weeks out all of a sudden having an extra five weeks is like, oh, I got fucking tons of time. Yeah. So yeah. So we're actually looking at Toronto now. Oh, okay. October. Yeah. So the Canadian nationals. That's in Toronto you're saying. Yeah. They used to move that show around all the time. But now with the new system they just have nationals in Toronto every year. It's it's easy for everyone. Gotcha. It's right by the airport. They have it in like an airport hotel. So the whole thing just occurs right there. It's just so simple. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, got one for me. Who started the Think Big Channel and how did you all get hooked up with each other? I don't remember. You tell the story Scott. I don't even remember. It's all been a blur. We did a podcast blur this. It was called Advice's Radio. It was this is back in the day before they had video podcasts. They used to have this thing. It was called. It was just audio. They had them on your on your iPhone or your, you know, whatever. But yeah. So that started in like 2016 and I did a show before that. But Advice's radio was, you know, you know what it was Ron is that I was a coach. And I listened like a local coach. I just helped a lot of guys that were all competitors here. And a lot of, I got a lot of men's physique guys at the time. They get the time men's early on in men's physique. They didn't know how to die it. They were like, they thought they had to do something special or different. We don't want to, something to be different than body builders. And I was like, you know, fuck that. We're going to die to you just like we died of bodybuilder. They'd come in and peeled and they had just smoked. So it was a good thing. And I did well with it. But I listened to a lot of podcasts, including like listening to a podcast. Including like listening to you on all-ball radio. And and you know what I learned a lot. And and I thought to myself, you know what I, and I started doing a podcast with my friend, V.J. bodybuilding nerds radio. Thank you. And we reviewed other podcasts. And we had my favorite part. It was just like it was a fun show, you know. And we actually ran that all the way up until last year. V.J. was done. He had enough. But I couldn't do interviews. I wanted to do interviews and talk to people and educate myself and kind of put out the type of education that I enjoyed. So I started a devices radio and you know, over time it evolved in grew. And then I wanted to go to YouTube. But the term advice is radio. Some of you guys probably don't even know what the word advice is means. Like Ron does. You know, but it wasn't like as catchy. We needed something that was going to be like it was going to stick. When you saw it, you knew exactly what we're talking about. Think big bodybuilding media, you know. So so I changed the name, which it was a big. It was a scary thing to do because we had a big following. And it advices on the audio channel. And it was very humbling to then. I do what I did in interview with Brandon Curry. Like it was like a week out from the Olympia where he was poised to win after he won the Arnold. And I posted that went to the Olympia. And that show got like 200 views. It's where to go. Literally 200 views on YouTube. So it was a process of rebuilding and now you know, now we're doing all right. I'm happy with 18k. Like, you know, we don't have like a huge channel. But I think the people we have are people that really look like these are the people that really love bodybuilding. You know, they're all the funny thing is is our numbers don't map on to my reality. What do you mean? Everywhere I go people mention the show. That's so cool, man. So I feel like we have millions of viewers. Yeah. Yeah. I wasn't the grocery store the other day. Okay. And this guy goes, hey, you're Ron, right? And I go, yeah. And I thought he was going to mention the fucking gym. Yeah, of course. And in the neighborhood. Great. And he goes, oh, listen to your podcast. Hell yeah. That's cool. And I was like, oh, really? And he goes, yeah, I have to come and check out your gym. He goes, you know, I actually trained at this still fitness center over here. I'm going to come check you out. So like this funny stuff like that, you know. And do you remember I told the story about the listener that was walking across the parking lot? If you may listen. Yeah, if you may listen to her and she goes, I'll listen to you right now. I was at the van pro and she was volunteering backstage. Oh, no kidding. She comes up. She's like, hey, I'm the girlfriend. It was on the headset and the home duple parking lot. You know, it's like when we're at the mutant booth. Yeah. And then ice come up and they're like, listen to the show. You know, like it's just cool that that we see that all the time, you know. Yeah. And I wish I could get into the Arnold to hang out with you guys and see that for my signal next Arnold. I will be there. There's no question. I know. It was a lot of fun, man. The Arnold was good. All right. We got like a couple more here. Let's power through these. Oh, and I liked this one from a coaching perspective. He says, um, do do modern phones like the iPhone. Make it difficult to assess a physique in terms of check-ins since they automatically alter the image to make them look better. Details tend to be lost, washed, smooth out. Have you seen that? They have like, like the phone has a filter on it basically now. I didn't know that. Yeah. Yeah. Every time you take a picture, I think you can undo it. Like there's a button that you can use to not filter it. There's like a filter that just smooth everything out. Make you look pretty here. Every time you take a picture, and that's going to translate too to when somebody shoots a picture for check-ins. I, um, yeah. I mean, you just do what you can. I mean, I'd rather the pictures aren't perfect. Yeah. Rather, I'd rather you get someone looking great in okay lighting. Yeah. You know, like I want the lighting to be good enough that I know what we're doing. Yeah. But I don't want. I don't want the lighting to like make you look crazy better than you do. You know, like that's the worst. It can come all the kitchen pictures, you know. Right. You know, the famous ones where everyone's like, oh my god, he's going to win the Arnold. And then he's like, show up and, you know, and he, you know, we look good, but it was just wasn't like the kitchen, you know. Yeah. And, um, or those pictures, you know, you, like certain people take pictures like outside on their deck. And they just look fucking crazy. Yeah. You know, it's just, I'm not sure if I want the greatest pictures all the time. I just want to, you know, I want good pictures. I don't know. It's like Jack White. I want my guitar to be a struggle to play. You know, I go, I think that's why he's keeping guitars. Yeah, he plays cheap guitars and fixes up broken guitars and he likes things to be less than perfect. No kidding. I didn't know that. Yeah. But that makes sense. That's very Detroit. That's a way we're all here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You want us to feel that car when he's driving it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Before power steering, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No power steering for Jack White on the guitar. All right. I think is that all of them I might have. Uh, yeah. I think that's, I think that's it. I do want to say too, though. Um, there were so many questions. If we ever miss your questions, guys, it's not intentional. We're not like, hey, Ron. Let's not take this guy's question. Yeah. Yeah. There's no planning or discussion. Yeah. It's me trying to just randomly grab everything together about 30 seconds before we start the show. And, uh, and then we, we try to answer them all. But sometimes we get, you know, lost in conversation too. So that happens. I just want to throw that out there. That if we don't take your question and you want us to, to take it, then post it on the Knack show too when that comes out. We'll get to it. We will. We will try to get to it. Yeah. We can't promise. But we will try again. I can promise. After feeling first time. Yeah. Okay. Thanks everybody. Uh, we appreciate it. Remember that that mutant supports the show. And, uh, sponsors. It's just bodybuilding. And they do it purposely in a very non-invasive way. They don't make us do a bunch of stuff. They just want to support the show. And, and, uh, obviously, Dusty and I have a great relationship. And now Scott has a relationship with him too. Absolutely. And they're, they're helping the show out. And they just want us to, to do our thing. And they love what we're doing. So, so remember, you know, I am mutant.com. Anyone in North America can go on the I am mutant.com website and direct order their stuff. You can use a code Ron big Ron 20 big Ron 20 or Dusty 20. If you didn't have to mention the Dusty code he's not here. I just, I know. I know. I just, you know how we do things. We do certain things for him. Yeah. Yeah. I know. Assuming he's back. You know. Let's give me a key comes back. Yeah. I mean, who knows? Like, if he doesn't come back, I'll see how much money is in his code account. And if I get it transferred over to us. Yeah. Get that worked out. See if we can do it off. See if he happens. If Dusty's dead, who gets his, uh, code rewards? I think they should just transfer over to us. Yeah. It makes sense. Total sense. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. comment and ring the bell, ring the bell and comment with questions for the next episode. Comment with questions for the next episode. Yes, it was great. And it looks like I'm doing a big story box this week. Like I'll be on my Instagram answering stories for the next two days. So that's fine. I don't mind. Alright, good. I'm glad that it worked out. You correct the code. Yeah, yeah, you just gotta tell people, make them dumb. Make them create silly questions. We'll get answered first. Okay, remember everybody. It's just body building.

I had a couple conversations with some guys that were like, dude, you started contest coverage and you talked about the fifth place guy and then you talked about the fourth place guy and then dusty cracked a joke and then Scott laughed and then he was over the joke and then you talked about a movie. It sounds about right. It sounds like us. And I was third and you didn't. I was waiting. I was better than those guys and you didn't talk about it. I was better than those guys. Talked about the two guys I beat. That's how good you were. That you beat those two that we talked about. So I think it's important we give it disclaimer. Yeah. We are not the optimal source of contest coverage. I'm your host Bigron Park, though. That dusty handsha and our producer Scott McNally and remember like share, subscribe, comment and bring the bell. And we got to remind everybody the show sponsored by Mutant. They support the show and take care of Dusty and me and Scott for all the hard work that Scott does. And remember you can always go on IM Mutant.com and use your code Bigron 20 or Dusty. There you go. Either one of those will work. Get you a little bit of a deal. Makes us look like we're valuable to the company. Yada, yada, yada. Right. Okay. I've been I've been sending Ron. So I've been following enough bike tricks flat landers that they come up now in my suggestion. Oh no. Whatever the other next. The slots. Hot slots. Yeah. So flat landers. So that's random dude and is underwear flat landers. That's what I got in there. And so I send them over to Ron. But now he's to the point in that industry. He knows them. Oh, that's my boy. So when so. I'm like, oh, I'm thinking I'm finding something. I was like, look at this. Right. Yeah. I filmed that. I was there that day. No, he sent me a clip and I'm like, oh, that's my buddy Frank from Germany. Yeah, yeah. I had steak with him when I was at Fibo. You know. But I mean, this guy was doing you'll understand this because you don't know what he likes. Yeah. And I don't know. Bikes. He was literally doing his tricks hard enough and fast enough that you could see his tire tracks staying on the ground. The were circles of black everywhere. You're kidding. As he was doing it. I was, I'm going to tracks. I didn't even think that was a thing. I didn't know that was a thing. Yeah, they spin. So they spin so tight that like, they wear it. They go through tires and like, they'll put new tires on every couple of months because they just come off on the pavement. You know, because they're spinning and such tight circles now that it just rips the tires apart. They're not rolling straight lines like the used to, you know. It's like everything's crazy. So yeah, I was impressed by that. So we got to talk. We got to talk about, I just got back from Dallas. And I got to say, my client, my carousin, big shout out to my client, my carousin. He has iron a silent gym of Texas on Instagram. Oh, iron a silent gym of Texas. Huge facility. I'd love to get out there. Give me a whole bunch of shirts. This is just one of them. Loanstar lifters. And give me a stack like this high. And then give me another stack for dusty. Nice. So I'll be bringing you a bunch of cool T shirts. They're all the real nice next level, like the next level ones that, you know what I mean? That we like bring your bunch. Yeah, that's all. And I didn't take it too personally, but there's like mine. And then Dustys were one ex larger. He doesn't taller than you. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's it. So yeah, I've been grads. And I got to congratulate also my client, Mike, on a great show. He came home with three medals. He got a first and two seconds in his three categories. And there's a lot of fun. Oh, yeah. It was kind of crazy because I've been working with him for like a year. It seems. Right. I don't know. I lose track a how much time. And then when, you know, Steven did a shack was like, oh, I'm going to do Tampa and Dallas. I was like, okay. And then it wasn't until like, I don't know, it was like a month out. I realized Mike show was the same show. Oh, my God. Because I didn't really think it was a pro am. I just saw it was like Texas pro and then Mike was doing some amateur show. Like yeah, because, you know, there's so many shows in Texas. It was like 30 a year. And I realized the same show. So it was awesome. So I got to like, I texted him. I'm like, hey, I'm going to be there. You know, he kind of is cool. So I got to meet him and everything. And that pro show man was awesome. What did you guys think from where you were? Well, I had a great seat in my couch and I had a great view of Instagram. Now, I thought it was phenomenal. I felt like the level of competition in the open was absurd. I mean, absolutely absurd and good to see some freaks coming out. I mean, I'm looking at the winner. I don't know what his real name is, but Andrew Jack, what everyone's talking to saying his name is. But he, I mean, he's a threat for the top six of the Olympia. He looks pretty good. He wasn't all the way dialed in. And I'm thinking, holy shit. I mean, if he does it all the way down, he's going to piss on some parades for sure. Yeah. What do you think Scott? I didn't watch a lot of it. I saw some pictures. I did see Andrew Jack. And then just from a personal perspective, I got to see Jordan Janowitz make his pro debut, which was really cool. I knew Jordan, like since before he, like, put it this way before, I knew him since I was bigger than he was. Like we were, I was working for the, the, I say the pop company from Detroit, Michigan here, we say pop. I think you guys say that too, right? Right. Yeah. Pop. Yeah. Yeah. So I worked for the pop company. He worked for this grocery store. And I remember coming in there and I was like, hey, your body builder, aren't you? And he was like, hey, your body builder aren't you? So we kind of had this bond. But at the time, I think he was doing the Michigan natural. And then he ended up cleaning up there and he moved on. And he just kept getting bigger and bigger. And the coolest thing, and I know you guys can relate to this, being, you know, body builders who really appreciated like the Ronnie, a branch here. He loved Branch Warren, like coming up, you would see him training in the gym. Jordan was always strong. But he was like throwing weights around like branch, making noise like Branch, him and his training partner. You would think they were like emulating them, right? And that was like his thing. And now I'm hearing people say like, oh, he's like a modern day branch Warren with that conditioning, you know? So there's there. But so he's done the ranch. He got to train at Metro Flex. And I saw his wife made this post. That they were, he said, she said that we were walking out of the gym and the owner came running out after us, Brian Doffson. So that he could, he could pray with Jordan about the contest. And I'm telling you, like, even if you're not a religious person, if you're like a branch Warren fan to have, like basically that's like having like a, the Pope, his own personal preacher. His own, the Pope, basically, like praying with him for the show. So I can only imagine how he felt getting to do that kind of stuff. So just like a personal note, I was really pumped to see that come together. And he tried for a long time. Like he was a guy that you almost started thinking like, yeah, you might not, you might not ever get that pro card. He's been so close. So many times. And now look at him. So that was very satisfying to me. Well, I walked up to Jordan backstage and introduced myself said, man, you know, I fall in Instagram. I think you're free. Like it's good to see you here. And he goes, oh, I really appreciate that Ron. I love the show. And that's cool. And I said, well, shit, we have to get him on the show now. Right now. So, you know, that would definitely be awesome. But I have so much to say about the Texas pro. I don't know if you guys even want to hear it all. Or if it even belongs in the show. Like I, the Texas law doesn't talk about bodybuilding. I thought we were trying to limit that. I know. I know. You know what? I just, I'm so fucking fucking just this one. I, I was reminded by, by being there at the show. I mean, I am every time. I am, I'm always like this. But it was just like really cool. I, I'm still a huge fan of bodybuilding. And it's why I still love to be at the events and be around everybody. And I'm in like an ultra happy, super positive mood the entire time I'm at the show. And just a really great place to be and all the people to be around. And the level was really crazy. The depth was crazy. It was, it was definitely better than the Tampa show for depth in all the categories. I had was helping jaws again for classic. So, John Lee, you guys follow jaws. He hopped into classic. And that was crazy. The top 10 in the, while the whole classic class was great. Like even the top, like when they just called the top 10 and you know, they have the guys that don't make the top 10 come out and do their like, like a quick pose and leave. Yeah. They're like completely striated. Head to toe. Like all the guys that didn't make the top 10 are coming out and they're like fucking dry and shredded. That's cool. Maybe it's weren't structurally, you know, classic enough or whatever. But like great bodybuilders. And then the guys are actually in the top 10, come out and do their posing routines. And I'm just like shit. Like every one of them had an awesome routine and they were conditioned and flow and just that the level is really high. And John wound up fourth, you know, here he is like 5, 5, 180. And then the guy who's in third is like six feet tall. You know, like it's a crazy class that that classic class is crazy. When you see rough and next to bumstead, it's like man, it's just crazy class to judge. And courage won the class. Right. And, you know, what an amazing physique courage has. And his posing is just off the charts next level. So, you know, seeing that was really motivating. I think for everybody, you know, everybody that that saw the shell that were just, you know, motivated to be a better poser and, you know, motivated to, to bring more because that's clearly what's going on. And that I gotta say that Valentin Petrov from Bulgaria, one of the second. That guy's fucking great. Like it was a great physique. And then I'm trying to find, I don't wanna leave the third place guy out. Yeah, Jorge Luis Guerrero, Gilegos. So he came up from Mexico. Awesome physique. Like, just had that, he had that tall classic guy look with the tiny, like the crazy lines and the flow and everything really nice was in. And the reason I wanna make sure we say the top three, you guys know why. And I had a couple conversations with some guys that were like, dude, you started contest coverage and you talked about the fifth place guy. And then you talked about the fourth place guy and then dusty cracked a joke and then Scott laughed and then he was over the joke. And then you talked about a movie. It sounds about right. That sounds like us. And I was third and you didn't, didn't apprehend the effort. I was waiting. I was better than those guys and you didn't talk about it. I was better than those guys. Talk about the two guys I beat. That's how good you were. So you beat those two that we talked about. So I think it's important we give a disclaimer. Yeah. We are not the optimal source of contest coverage. There's been time. We don't even have the order correct, frankly. Yeah. And I really apologize to all the people that we have literally skipped, like someone joked with me to like, yeah, you gave the results of a show once. And you got right up to who won and then you moved on. And again, someone won. And you didn't even say who won the show. And I just had to laugh. I was like, oh, God, that sounds like us. Yep. And so I sent you guys a message. I was like, I think we have to recognize that there's like, people who really want us to cover their placing and we just can just leave them out. The desert and die. You're just best showing ever. He wins the show. He's got an Olivia qualification. Let's not talk about him. Welcome. I think it's a big deal. I got in start though. He was nuts. I had the laugh. I had the laugh because I was like, oh, maybe that's why that one guy won't talk to me. Because I just don't want to show three times. He says, no, every time. Yeah, you didn't talk about my win. So we do that to people and we apologize. The two 12 was it. The two 12 was I used the word affectionately because the class was so good. It was a fucking mess. Like, you know what I mean? Oh, yeah. Like there were guys in the third call out with shredded glutes. And you're like, huh, that must suck to come in that condition and just not get the call. And there were some guys in the first call out that didn't have striding glutes. So it's not like, you know, I think sometimes coming from the generation I came from, we were so condition based. Yeah. You know what I mean? Like, you know, especially at the amateur level, at the amateur level is condition. It's like a conditioning contest. You know what I mean? To move up the levels to conditioning conditioning. But I see what the judges now are structure is a huge thing. There's guys that aren't really in shape, but their structure is fantastic. And they look great in the front double. And that sort of thing. Yeah. And they're landing above a lot of guys in, that's what I thought. I thought some of the guys with structural advantages and not necessarily the best condition. And but then it's confusing because in the very next guy has like shredded glutes and he's one placing behind them. Right. And then the next guy after that is like less ripped, but has beautiful flow. And they're like, huh, this is, this class is just tough. Like it may, it may be wonder if you had a different panel of the judges if there would have been like several spots juggled, you know? Probably. But that was tough. And I want to make sure we'll do, we got to do the top three in the two, 12 for sure. I make sure. We've got the second place, guys, though. Yeah, we'll leave out the second place, guys. So of course, Jordan landed third. Jordan Janowitz was third. Um, he was awesome. Uh, you know, there were arguments, arguments for him to be pushing for the top two spots on his conditioning and his back double bicep. Okay. Those things were just his back double bicep was, um, like the most disgusting back double in the whole show. You know, fact was a weak point for him for a while too. Like he's head to get that back to come up, which is cool to see. He's got a good back now. Yeah. But the conditioning on the back double, like from ankle to neck was like, you know, fibers, just fibers fibers fibers. So you got to hand it to him. And that probably what was what brought him into the top of that group. Um, second place was, oh, Cody drove out. Of course. So Cody, um, who I've known my, you know, his whole bodybuilding life. Um, he came. He was a little bit, I think maybe a little bit fuller than Tampa. Um, he might have been a little sharper in Tampa. I don't know. I wasn't there. I'm just going my pictures. But whatever the lucky brought was great. He's he has a massive structural, um, advantage is over other people, especially from the back. Um, when he does a back double, you think, man, that guys, that kids shoulders are really wide. And his hips are really narrow. That's the first thought that I see. Like a lot of guys have a wide, a lot spread. Right. But when they stand relaxed, they're not that wide. Yeah. But, um, it's like the illusion created by his physique is, um, very, very difficult to deal with. Very difficult to deal with. And he could have easily put him in first. I, um, I was, I was pretty tossed up as to what they were going to do regarding first and second. Um, but, uh, Karath Bajo is I was not how you say his name. Karath Bajo. That's what I'm going to say. But I saw him backstage. I didn't get to talk to him. He was second in Tampa and he came to this show and wanted the shortest guy in the class and it looks like he has a really hard time getting into to 12. So I'd give you an idea. You know, like he's just, he looks like the craziest. He looks like, you know, just deep, mature, grainy, ridiculous muscle quality. Um, and he has good enough shape and structure. You know what I mean? Some of those really short guys, it's hard because, you know, shape and structure is difficult when you're kind of squashed down like that. But the muscle, the muscle mass and quality was just so off the hook. Um, so yeah. And, uh, and, you know, of course, I went there to help did oh and did all moved up a spot. He was eighth in Tampa. He wound up seventh here in, uh, in this show. And, um, you know, still easily like we had people walking up to him after the like dude, like you could have been like, like, like, from, you know, from fourth to seventh eighth was just like rough. You guys were fucking awesome. And, uh, pretty happy, man. You know, what do you do? He came, you know, the best has ever been, you know, 10 pounds heavier than when he turned pro and, uh, really happy with the look. And then another thing, too, like this class was like classic. Like some of the guys, I saw this. I saw a couple guys backstage where I was like, holy shit. That guy's going to be a major problem. But then on stage, you go all the conditions, not quite there enough and they're kind of in the back of the back of the pack. Um, so just beating a lot of those guys is like huge because there's like so much, so much muscle on that stage in the to 12. And, uh, yeah, it was a really positive turnout for for me. I had a great weekend and, you know, um, pretty happy with it all. But men's open. Is that where we're going to talk about? Yes, men's open. The men's open was, let me just find a score sheet here. That that that that that that that that that that that that comment very seriously dusty. Did I did I did not not at all. I didn't give a shit. Um, I'm sorry. I had I can't find the open. I was actually looking at some dog races on my phone. Dog races. Ha ha ha. So that top five. Um, I was lucky. I went to the night show. So I had a backstage pass. Right. On Friday, I would walk out from backstage and I would just walk into like the little VIP section right behind the photographers. And I would just sit down and watch show. And nobody said a word to me. And I did that all day long. Nice. And then on Saturday, like because I thought that's what my pass was good for. Payed 150 bucks. I thought, oh, I get to go sit there. Saturday I come out and I go to sit there and the security stops me and he's like, oh, you need a VIP. And I go, oh, okay, I thought this was it. And he goes, oh, that's backstage pass. Yeah. And I go, oh, I sat here all day yesterday goes, yeah, we got in trouble because we were letting like a bunch of people sit there and you got a VIP. And I was like, oh, no problem. So I went nice sat like, you know, in the normal seats. And they were pretty far back. So you had to kind of watch the screen. And will Whitman, the photographer. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He walks by and he's like, right, and how's it going? And I go, oh, great. And I start talking to Will. He goes, what are you doing? Sitting here? I'm like, oh, I don't have like, I don't really have a ticket. You know, I'm a backstage pass. So sitting here and he goes, no. And then he goes, oh, I don't want to cause any problems. Like, you know, like, I don't want to be a whiny asshole. Everything. Yeah. And he's like, no, no, no, come with me. And he walked me up to the very front and he walked me around. Passed security security doesn't stop Will Whitman. He goes wherever he wants. He walked me past security. The same security that stopped me. I'm with Will. He just, oh, hands off. Walk me right past. He takes me right in behind the photographers and it goes sit right here. And then he goes, uh, he goes, I'll go tell Ben Chow where you're at. Cause Ben and I were kind of hanging out a bit. Yeah. Yeah. And so I got to sit in the, like, second row of VIP for the whole night show or the whole Saturday. Like the whole final. It was nice. So I everything was fucking awesome. And so I really got a great look at the men's open and done me great seats, man. That'd be so cool. They, they could have, uh, mind bogging first off. That was one of the hardest top fives. It could have been juggled a bunch. Yeah. Like, come all and Steve Kouklo and Quintin and Andrew Jacked and Martin Fitzwater. Yeah. Like, he think of five guys that are kind of more different. Yeah. You know, and some of them had, like, the two guys that had the best conditioning would be, you know, Quintin and Kamal, I think, had the most detail. Um, Fitzwater had the craziest combination of having the most shredded glutes and hands in the open, combined with the fullest look. He was so full. He looked like if he ate like half a mouth and you would explode. And then Kouklo was massive fall. Nice. But the condition just wasn't there like the deep cuts. You know, look like he came in a little heavy. Maybe pushing for fullness because from the sounds of it, everyone's saying like every single person I talked to that came from Tampa said the judges told them to get fuller get fuller get fuller. So it's like, I feel like there's pressure on them to be massively full. And maybe there's some conditioning being sacrifice to do that. Um, you know, Kouklo looked great. But he was just he wasn't like a shredded Kouklo. He was like a really full Kouklo. And then come all man, you got to hand it to that dude. You know, to be that 51 years old and have the most detail head to toe front to back of anybody in the top group. Um, and really kind of putting on a clinic as to how to display your physique to its best. You know, every pose, the quarter turns, everything was perfect. Not a single muscle is relaxed in any of his mandatorys where you see like like Andrew Jack, for example, he's so new to bodybuilding that like he's literally making posing mistakes on stage. It's still winning. You know, like at one point, they called back double and he kind of closed up his shoulder blades. You know, where it's like, you know, that that's just a thing that he's like, well, how many back doubles as he hit in this whole life? This probably not at the, you know, he hasn't hit 10,000 of him yet. So it's not right. You know, the posing isn't perfect, which is just scary. Because the thing of the fact that he could perfect his posing and be 20% better. Yeah. Right without even getting better. So that tells you how much potential he has. Um, backstage Andrew Jack is the biggest fucking thickest pecks. He like he's a monster, just a monster backstage. And it's this, the fact that you look across a room and he's the tallest guy Andy appears because of the illusion. He appears to have the smallest waste. Mm. So you're like, oh, fuck, you know, um, who else in that top five Quentin? Well, Quentin is like Mike fanwink was saying Quentin has unlimited potential. I had of them. This is just ridiculous the way he looks on stage. And, you know, the judges are telling them to get your upper body to match your legs, the chest and back thickness, that's all. But even having said that his conditioning was far better than Steve's. And I thought that it was arguable to put him ahead of Steve because, you know, condition can be rewarded like that, you know, um, but that was like, you know, super tight, super tight. And then Martin Fitzwater was like the shock. You know, I know he, what was he fifth last year or something like that, but just the improvements he brought, it was like, god damn branching him and being killing it in the gym for a year. Because that's like all it looked like when Fitzwater was posing it, just look like, oh, fuck, you train hard. Yeah. This is the muscle fullness strong kid, the muscle fullness. And like I said, his physique doesn't have all the detail yet. You know what I mean? Like standing relaxed, he doesn't appear shredded. Yeah. But then when he like puts his leg forward and locks it out, his quads completely strided. I'm like, oh, god, you know, and like the pecks look like they're just kind of full and hanging. But then when he hits the most muscular, they strike and just rip. So he'll get more and more quality and he'll get that harder dancer look where he's stand relaxed and look harder. You know, that'll come with time. But you know the kids in shape, because the hams and glutes are like the most shredded of anyone in the open. So it was I did not envy the judges. I talked to a fetal for a while on the phone yesterday when I was driving back from the airport. And we were like talking about the placings and stuff. And it was kind of one of those things were like, I gave a fetal my opinion. And he's probably going to repeat it on heavy muscle and give me a gain trouble. And then and then and then like two hours after I gave a fetal my opinion, I was like, that's kind of flip floppy. Huh. You know, it was one of those things. I don't know. It was a great show man. Those guys were awesome. And the best part, just I don't know, well, not the best part. The fun of the funniest parts was after the show, you know, the MC asked Andrew Jack, you know. You've had a little bit of, you know, a little bit of, you know, they want to hype it up, right? He's a little bit of hype with blessing, you know, any words for blessing. And Andrew Jack said, right on the microphone, he goes, yeah, stay the fuck home. No, crowd was like, whoa, you know, it was all like he was laughing, but he said, yeah, stay the fuck home and he kind of laughed. So they totally know what they're doing. They want to do that's funny. We're selling tickets. Smart. Oh, yeah. I got you that I've worked with Joshua Stokely. He met you while you're there, Ron. And he had said to me, oh, yeah, I did. He came up to me and said that he worked with you. I met him outside. Yeah. He messaged me. And he was like, yeah, you know, I saw Ron there and I saw all the other pros and stuff. And they're just like, you know, talking to everybody and talking to each other. Or they're talking to each other, keeping them themselves. And Ron's just out there, just watching amateur bodybuilding. And he's just, I can't remember his words, but he's like, he was just having so much fun. You can tell that guy just loves this sport. I was like, yeah, that sounds like the Ron we know. I was yelling for the end. I was yelling for the amateur. Because it didn't even know. I love that. I mean, that's so cool. Yeah. And also, too, I was kind of in a mood when I was watching the first day. I was kind of in a mood because, you know, I had two guys that had a classic pro when a two, 12 pro. And of course, classics up first, you know. So I go out there. Everybody's asleep. All right, whole crowd to sleep. It's not like 9.30 in the morning, you know. And I flew all the way from Vancouver to cheer these guys on. Yeah. So, you know, jaws walk out and I just yell, Jaws, Lats, Fuck it go, Jaws, Second I'm a screaming. And no one else is making a single word. So I just look like this insane idiot. It's okay. In the tent throw, who's screaming, you know. And then they go, you know, they're doing the call out. And it's like first call out. So the tension is high, right? Right. And they're moving guys around and jaws gets moved to middle closer to the middle. And they call front double bicep and I yell, front double jaws, Lats go. Right. I'm just screaming. And these guys beside me were kind of laughing. Like they were chuckling. But I just kept thinking like, this is Texas. Come on. Yeah. Like some fucking noise. Like I remember Johnny Jackson show a couple years ago. I MCed it and the crowd is nuts. And I think people just, maybe they're not used to going to shows yet. I don't know, but there is a lot of quietness out there. And it took a while to get people going. You know, I'm with you. So I think the best compliment I ever got was from Sarah Bruce, from the Rough Rugged and Raw podcast. We were watching the Arnold together one year. And she was like, most people at bodybuilding show us nowadays, they just sit there quietly and they look like half on impressed. She was like, but you go with Scott and VJ. And it's like you're watching like a wrestling match or pro football. Because we're just like, no, I had it. You know what I mean? It's like, that's the way it should be. I feel like those are the good times, man. That's the way that the audience should be. Yeah, I was screaming. You know, if I knew anyone in the line-ups I was yelling, I yelled for Jordan. Yeah. I yelled for Ditto. Like, fuck, come on, Ditto. That's go, give on the most muscular. Give it to him. You know, I'm just saying screaming. It was fun. I used to love that about like the New York pro. Is the crowd. I felt like the crowd got like 50% decision on who won. Right. Why is looking back? He's like, if I don't go with what they're saying, yeah, they're going to tear the roof off this fucking floor. Way to the door. They're making you remember. I mean, I mean, obviously, remember the moment, but like when Marcus Rul came out and it sounded like, oh yeah, it was going to come off the place. Like they lost their minds immediately and you're like, yeah, that's bodybuilding. And he's feeling it. So he's given it back to him. Yeah. So you got that like that that that that that exchange of energy that when it's quiet, you're like, it's like when the guys are trying to get the credit like, come on, the crowd's like, no, no. Yeah. Yeah. That's what's. Yeah. Yeah. That's funny. And also, too, I got to give a show out. I want to make sure I get his full name. I'm just going second. Yeah. Yeah. I'm just going. I'm just going. I'm just going. I'm just going. So I got to give a show to Dominic. Zemenza from Lake Stevens, Washington. I sure hope I got the right Dominic. Yeah, that's him. He came up to me. He's like, hey, Ron, I watch a show. He's like, big fan of the show. And then he comes out in the classic division. He's fucking shredded. Nice. Crazy condition. And I was like, oh, man, it's fucking, what are the real wake-ups, man? Was the number of people that told me they watch a show? Like, it was awesome. And like, when courage, I had never met courage. I'm just walking through the backstage and courage steps out of his group. Like, he's in a circle. Yeah. And he, each step's around the group to intercept me. And he goes, Ron, because I love the show. And I'm like, what? That's cool. They like him. You watch our show. And you go, yeah, you guys help me through cardio, man. Oh, yeah. Because you guys don't know how many people you help through cardio. And I was just like, this is crazy. Like, I expect, you know, gym rats to watch our show. And, you know, people at love bodybuilding. But when you think like the actual champions that win the show is are getting through cardio listening to us, talk about nonsense. Just, it's fucking awesome. Yeah. So like that stuff was like the highlight of, you know, the highlight was just like, man, like it's crazy. Number of people that, you know, like I was getting breakfast. And I cracked a joke about something wrong with the buffet set up. And you know, I was like, I'm not impressed with the location of the maple syrup compared to the pancakes. They should be adjacent to one another. Of course. And the guy, the guy, you know, some guy next to me says, like, ho, Ron. Yeah. Just stop eating your pizza with a fork and knife. Exactly. Is that he totally knows who I am and what I'm thinking. When I'm looking at this buffet set up. This incorrect buffet set up. Yeah. Yeah. So I don't know. Just a lot of positive stuff like that. So I had a great weekend. Everyone was happy. You know, of course you want the people you helped to show up looking great. And I, you know, that was accomplished. And, you know, what a great show. You know, what a great show. And congrats to everybody. There's a lot of argument for you know, like there wasn't argument for fits water to win. There was legit. Yeah. Based on being like complete. Do you know what I mean? Because Andrew Jack, there was some things he didn't do. You know what I mean? But, but for the most part, it was an overwhelming kind of a freak show win. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? Especially because it went with the show. Through the pictures. That's, I'm glad you say that. Yeah. That's the stuff people don't realize is we're looking at pictures. And I didn't looking at the pictures. And just size and dominance. I actually thought Steve was closer to second than fourth. And being there, that's not the case at all. Hmm. I found it like it's an issue. It was a classic thing like on the videos. Everyone just looks the same like just fucking awesome. Everyone shredded. And that's another thing about this show is the stage like it was fucking great. Like, guys looked awesome at the back of this stage. And the middle of the stage. And the front of the stage. Like there was like there was no bad spot to be on. And there certainly wasn't a bad spot in the lineup. They're moving guys back and forth and everyone just so fantastic. So that helped a lot. But being there at close. And you know like Steve Kuhuklo, but it's just, he's got such a beautiful, fucking massive physique. Like he's like one of the best ever like mass monster to have like fantastic aesthetic flow. You know what I mean? Like he's a great bodybuilder man. But I just felt like his condition kept him out of the top spot. You know, had he been, I don't know, what's the most shredded Kuhuklo we ever saw? That guy might have won. That guy might have beat Andrew. You know, he was just really, really dry, really, really dry and crisp. I think you might have, but who knows, maybe they would have told him to come fuller. Like the right who all the time. You know, so I do want to say a couple things though. I know I've been talking for 10 minutes. You know you guys want to interrupt? No. It's been a long time. Let's put Kuhuk. Okay. I want to say one thing. I want to say one thing. And this certainly isn't directed at anyone person specifically. Because for the most part, this weekend was really good. But I did witness some examples of, of it. And it's sort of needs to be reiterated occasionally just to remind people. And also too, I was reminded that these pros actually watch our show. So maybe this can be for them. But I know that everyone wants to win. I know that you go to win. And I know that if you come away with anything less than a win, it can be a real disappointment. But try to remember you're in the business of bodybuilding. And when you walk out in the lobby and kids come up to you, young guys, fans, and they congratulate you on how awesome you looked and how great they think it is that you made the top five. Try not to, you know, be a dick because you didn't win. You know what I mean? Like if someone walks up to a competitor's like holy shit man, you looked awesome. Congratulations. And maybe they're, we'll just say fourth. And they're like, yeah, whatever man, like that sort of thing. It's like, dude, this isn't a high school football game. You're a professional bodybuilder. Right. You know, I understand your upset. I get it. We're intense people. But this is your chance to interact with this person and it's going to have carry over. It's going to, you know, I don't know. I think that's some important. I saw a little bit of that like guys is really, really bummed out and sort of let it kind of get to them when they need to be able to keep it together. You know, I don't know. What are your thoughts on that? I think you may huge point because being a professional is far beyond the stage. Right. Simply put, the reason that you're still bringing in an income far above what most very good pros will ever see is because you're a professional on every level. If the only professionalism you have is the fact that you put together a good physique on stage, keep a really good job because it's going to be a very short career. So no, I couldn't agree more. They had to painful. I think it's sad that people don't see that because what you said is accurate, it's, you know, they are complimenting you on what they see. Don't don't get mad at him because Steve Weimer has you in fourth and you think you should be in first. He's just saying you're fucking awesome. You know, I mean, I think that that's very important. Plus remember that your fans or your fans regard us. I mean, I've had people congratulate on horrendous showings and just say, like, hey, we don't even care. You're my favorite because X, you know, because you got your keys. So no, I agree with that. I think it's, it'd be huge for guys careers and and the other thing is I can say this from experience. I know we've talked about this back when I was a kid. You never forget. I will never forget the guys who stop the world for me when I was a kid and the guys who blew me off when I was a kid. I remember them both very clearly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. I am. Yeah. I just wanted to mention that and that goes for the amateur's too because you're building up. You know, when you blow that kid off or give them, or give them, you know, you're really short with them, or whatever, the guy standing next to him could be a marketing manager for a supplement company. And he totally knows who you are. Yeah. That's what they're going to. And that's what this was. Like that's what this room full of people was. You are in a room full of people that all talk to each other. And people people call me all the time. I'm sure it happens with dusty all the time. I get messages from people, hey, what do you think of this guy? Like people who work for other supplement companies, message me. Like, hey, have you ever met this guy? What's he like? And I think, wow, I don't want to like this guy's kind of a dick, but I don't want to sink him. So I'll just say, oh, I don't really know him that well, you know, whatever. I go with these kind of dick. Yeah, like, you know what? I don't know. It's hard for me. It's hard for me. If obviously if they were dick to me, but then. But yeah, it's guys got to remember, they got to remember like, I get that you're upset. Like in 2012, I'll never forget this. In 2012, I got second to Antoine, very, very disappointing loss, very, very disappointing. How I was like, got it. I walked out into the lobby and mutant had a booth there. Right? So I walked out into the lobby, the show's over. Super heavy weights are the last, it's over, right? Everyone's kind of leaving their mullin' around. And I stood at the mutant booth for 45 minutes and took pictures with people. And I remember like a year later, someone at mutant told me about it. They're like, yeah, we were talking the other day how you lost. And then you came out from backstage with a big smile on your face. And you took pictures with people for almost an hour at the booth. While everyone else was gone. And like no one was left. Like the building was empty when we left. Dude, that's what Victoria told me about you. She said, remember, I told you that. And I think it was that show. She was like, you know, it was, but it was the next morning. There was like a breakfast that everybody went to. And she was like, you know, she was like, I saw Ron up there. And you could see like he really wanted it. And you could see he was disappointed on stage. But you know, he pulled it back together. He congratulated the winner. And then after that the next morning he showed up smiling as face. He was meeting everybody saying hi in the best mode. He could be, you know, just bounce pretty right at the banquet. Yeah, that's what she remembered out of that year, literally years later. No, you know. Yeah, yeah. And I think, you know, I didn't obviously, I wasn't a strategy. I was just like, this is what you do. This is what I signed up for. Yeah. Like, you know, these people came to cheer me on. There's a bunch of people I know because it was in my hometown. So it take pictures of all these people. But then there's all these people I don't know, taking pictures with them, too. But people have to understand that that like, you know, the famous story of the second place guy getting the better contract than the winner. Like, you know, you know, what do you really want at a bodybuilding? Do you want the trophy or do you want the opportunity? Because sometimes you get both, but sometimes you got to choose. Like, if I'm never, you don't get to choose. You don't get the trophy. So if I can take the rest of the opportunities that come along. Because if you just leave the building, discuss it and go home, you get nothing. You don't get a trophy and you don't get all the other opportunities, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Pick up all that loose change off the ground, man. You know? So that's my little rant. Let's grumpy than the, the, the, you know, resting bitch face one. But there you go. Okay. I like it. Okay. Okay. Someone else talk. Fine. Fine. Fine. Fine. Straight to your two questions. I'm going to pull up some questions. Yo, let's get yours by the way. Do we have YouTube questions Scott? We have a lot of YouTube questions. So I do want to say, guys, uh, do me a favor if I don't get to your questions. Because sometimes like this show we already went really lonely. Might not be able to get to all of them. We, run did. But go ahead. If it's, if it's, you know, if it's not on this show, comment again on the following shows, we'll definitely get to it. So don't take it personal, though. And I think I actually had a question here that was two part. One for Ron, question for Ron does get our weight really matter for tone. Also Gibson Les Paul or Gibson SG and then he's got a question for the crew after that. Run your first. Yeah, guitar weight matters a little for tone. So it's kind of like a wine connoisseur, right? Or a weed connoisseur. You know, some of these people, yeah, you know, some of these people will, then I'll take a sip and they're like, oh, I can really taste the oak. You know, I'm not like that. I'm not like that with my guitar tones, but I do know what I like and what I don't, I don't, you know. But guitar weight makes a bit of a difference, but the old saying goes 99% of how you sound, it's in the fingers. You know, you give a shitty guitar to Jimmy Hendrix, the sounds are Jimmy Hendrix. You know, but to me, this stuff that I play, I think like the distortion pedal you use and the amp you use have, you know, and the pickups in the guitar actually have most of the tone. You know, you take, you know, I pull, you know, one of these guitars off the wall and change the pickups in it. It's going to sound different. It's the pickups mostly, you know, and I'm, I'm, I have an SG Anoles Paul, but the SG is my, that's my workhorse. That's my baby. ACGC baby, you know. All right. And then the follow up one dusty, um, water, some foods to absolutely cannot train on. Foods that make you feel terrible and produce no pumps for you, or you get no real fullness the day after, et cetera, discuss. I don't have any foods that, um, like, people's thing with pump always throws me off. I get a pump on zero carbs, you get a pump not eating. I get a, like, I don't even, I, when people say that, I don't even know what it means. I'm like, oh, weird. Um, because I've literally never in my life went to the gym and not got to pump. I don't know what that means. Um, but foods have spicy them, have no business before training for me. And it's not because of, uh, shooting your pants or thing, it's, I can't have that much flavor, like, in my body. I'll be burping it up for acid reflux, even whatever. No. I won't bland ash shit before I train for sure. What about my fat? Oh, I don't care. I, I, I, I usually do fat sports training. That's how I almost died eating the steak before going to the gym, remember? Fun fact. Yeah, I love flank before I train. I like something. Because I treat, I eat two hours before I train. I know most people are tired of that. So I do, um, like 320 grams of flank and, uh, like 300 grams of rice, and then go train. But it's two hours later. So I need that sitting with me for some time. I, um, I'm going to piss some people off here. I think 90% of people's stomach and gut issues are completely in their head. And they are just so over analytical and so stressed out about what they eat and when they eat it, that I just can't imagine living in that prison. To me, it's just, I can't imagine like, oh, I ate this and then I had like a bit of gas. I'm like, what do you mean a bit of gas? Well, like, I don't know like I farted a bit. I'm like, the fuck the expect your body builder. You're eating like 4,000 calories a day. Like, what do you mean you had some gas? Like fuck. Like, are you bloated? Were you can't, like, is it like something you have to go with a hospital for? Or is it just cause you ate three cups of rice? Like, you know? Or like, I don't know. People just have all these mental hangups on all this stuff and like, oh, I really need to have, um, you know, I really need to have white rice before I train because if I have like bread before I train, I think it like, it like just sits too fast and it does like I just, all that stuff I just think. That's all nonsense. Yeah. Like all of all of my meals, all of my meals like I have stay crazy every day, I have turkey rice and vegetables every day. I have egg whites and oatmeal. I have a shake that I make. I can have any of those meals before I train, it makes no difference. And I can have any of those meals post workout and it makes no difference. And I don't care about any of the little micro changes in my body from any of that stuff. I just, because like, like, there's too much other stuff going on to worry about all that bullshit. Yeah. One thing I don't like deep before I train is like, we've all done it where you have like fast food with a buddy. You go like McDonald's in the eat and then like two hours later you go to train and you're like, oh, that was a bad idea. Yeah. I've done that. That's the only time. That's the only time. Well, that's plastic. That's not actually food. Yeah. Yeah. I really like the run that chooses violence just for the record. He's my favorite run. Like when he starts off with, I'm about to piss people off. I sat back a little. Kind of, kind of, kind of, being in the back. I was like, oh, really. I don't know. He's didn't do it though. Did you catch that's gone? He did. And then from the end he's like, and you wouldn't fuck you and your family. And I fuck your sister. She wasn't watching. It just kept going. It was impressive to watch. It was good. No. Well, I, I, I, I still feel a little bit bad because I got a few messages last week when he weren't here dusty. I mentioned how I don't like the TikToks or the reels where people are mouthing the words to movies. He would often, he would have, he would have, you know, I'd mention Scott's like, he would have fun. I slightly mentioned, I slightly mentioned that I don't like voiceovers. Y'all in reals. You know, with a like taken quote from a movie, but they like say it and they move their mouth. And I also don't like voiceovers on stage. Lip syncing on stage. Oh, I'm either. But I got messages from people. They're like, I thought you were my friend. Like, they were. You were so that fucking video. And like one, one girl that, one girl that I've known for years, he message me, she's like my entire TikTok is mouthing lines from movies. That's my entire TikTok. You just like broke me. Oh, you're a text me as a human. The text me. And then I went, looked, I went, looked at her TikTok and I'm like, actually, you're pretty funny. So, you're changing your story. We did. No, but yeah. So, so yeah, but the, the, a lot of times, I think people just have too much going on with worrying about foods. You know, I helped one guy once. And he was like, you know, I'm really, I don't have anything for my pre-workout meal at the house I'm staying at. I'm like, what are you happy? Like, they just have potatoes. And I was like, was he potatoes? He's like, oh, my last time I have potatoes, I like farted. And I just like, man, like, I don't know. Like, I just don't know how to live that way. So, so speaking of last week, I hate to do this to you right now. Scott, but you can talk about the shooting competition? No, no, we didn't talk about it, but I did go. You saw that I went. I know. So, you can catch me up though, because you didn't really like, you can give me a lot of data. So, I assumed it was, I could get live and we're getting to this. Sorry. It's okay. I was, um, so I didn't, so when I first started out, I just, like, I didn't, I didn't think about my actual technique. So, I did okay. And then there's five stages. I finished the first two. Then the third stage I remembered, I remember basically, like, how does you to gun? And so I settled down. And, uh, and then it got, like, really good. And it got easy. And I, and I felt really good about it. The first stage I actually bailed on. I didn't have enough ammo with me, like, on my person. And so I ran out and I didn't have more. And so they were like, oh, you could get more. And I was like, nah, it's all right. So I got, like, I had to get, like, a long time. Like, if you don't finish, you could get, like, 30 seconds. So that hurt. Right. And then they add all your times together. So that hurt my over all time. But I still got, uh, 29th out of 48 people. So there's like my first time I'm doing it. So I've, like, kind of middle the road. And I'm going to try it again. It was good. It was a lot of fun too. How, how, how many events are there? Like, how is it? How, like, what are the events? Like, 30 yard, 10 yard, 15 yard, is it like that or what? It's like, so there's five stages. Each stage, this is called steel challenge. So this, with this, you may, you mainly stay in the same spot. And then they have steel plates. Some of them are, our ten inches. Some of them are bigger than that. And then they have these bigger square ones. And they're set up in an order or whatever. You can shoot them in whatever order you want. As long as you hit the stop plate last, so there'll be one plate. It's a different color. And like, you, people come up with technique. Like, start left to right or go left in and then right in and then hit the, you know, hit the stop one last. So it's just a matter of speed. So, you know, timer, you draw, you get on target, shoot, shoot, shoot, shoot, stop. And they're set up in different patterns on each stage. So you shoot each stage five times. And it was like, it was like three hours, which was nice too. So it wasn't like an all day thing. You know what I mean? Like, I still got to go home, do my client work, all that. So this one, it was good. It's good. Is it like, is it like power lifting? Like, are the, are the other dudes like supporting you even though they want to be two or is it? Yeah, they're fulfilling what you mean, again, walk around like an asshole. Now, people are really cool. And you're not directly competing against each other, either, because I might be in carry optics. And this guy is shooting like a 22 caliber rifle. And this guy is in open. And he's trying to qualify. So, you know, you are in a way competing against everybody, but you're not at the same time. So you don't know the people that are in your class always. But I did better than some people that were like, they're regularly. So it was, it was good. It was good. And it was the first time I've ever transitioned through multiple targets. And some of them are kind of tricky because they might like go back. So you not only have to go across, but they'll like go further back and further back. So you're going over and back at the same time, you know, further distance. So it's, it was good. It was like, it was good, man. And it really allowed me to get into that sense of flow, you know, like that thing that we all three love, like when you're in the gym and everything's in that right spot. And you're about to have that perfect lift. It's like your brain goes clear. And it gave me that feeling, which I absolutely adore. That's like my fear of feeling in the world. So how many people are like, is this that like, does they got a shooting range? And there's like 20 people shooting all at once. And you have an instructor watching them or are you shooting by yourself and everyone's watching you? Everybody's watching you. So there's a club and you'll be like an a team. So there's like me and six other people. And then there's like five teams of that many people. And then when everybody finishes this stage, then we go to the next one and then you go to the next one kind of thing. So it was good. And then the people I was with, I didn't know any of them. So I had a friend that was there, but I couldn't get on his team. So nobody really gave me any pointers or anything like that. But I, you know, it's, it's pretty self-explanatory. So I'm excited. It's cool. What about, what about, what about, what about the arms, where you, that you have the best arms? Of course, probably. Yeah, proud of. Which isn't still really fun. You know, there's a lot of like 70 year old, 60 year old guys there. So it's still matters. Yeah. It always matters. It was good. It was, it was a lot of fun. And yeah, there's a capsule. Oh yeah, always. Oh, you said that. Yeah, that's a good one. Short to assert your dominance. You did. That. It was like 95 degrees. So yeah, bullshit. We know why it's been 35. Okay. Okay. All right. Sorry. I do you read the show again. All right. Go ahead to the questions. It's good. And we did get people, by the way, because Ron had said, he was like, I don't know what happened to Dusty, but he'll probably be back. We had people in the comments like, hey, for real. I hope Dusty's okay. So I had to let him know. I was like, no, Dusty's okay. He just couldn't make it. So yeah, we just made it sound like you didn't show up. We're like, I don't know where he is. He didn't log on. Well, probably a lie. It's technically I almost didn't. I mean, you text me. Oh, so that's every Monday. It's his only 158 to one. So I wasn't sure how this works. Yes. All right. So question for the next podcast. I'm doing my first contest prep with my coach after a successful offseason. And he's recommending me to use Halo for the first, for those excuse me, the final weeks. That sounds right. Of my prep. I have never used it or really looked into it. Because I always assumed that it was used more in powerlifting. Any experience with Halo in prep? Any advice you can give? I used a little bit of Halo like 20 milligrams, 30 milligrams, maybe. For like the last three weeks of I think, almost every show I ever did if I could get it. And one of the reasons that I like Halo at the end is because I like to tell people to stop their shots like seven days out, 10 days out even sometimes, just so they don't have any amount of people, the amount of people who have bad shots within the last week is just insane. I don't know what happens. And I know guys that run their shots right up to the show and they shoot all their fucking arms and delts and I just can't believe they don't have bad things happen. But Halo is great for making sure your Androgen levels are really high if you're going to back off your shots. That's another thing. Even if you only use it last 10 days, it's like, it's, you know, nice little tool. But it's not necessary. Because like, if you're on trend, you have a lot of Androgens. It's just an Androgen. That's all it is. It's not like a magic molecule or anything. But it just, yeah, it seems to be, you know, a handy little tool that's very commonly used. What's your breakdown, Desty? I didn't use it all the time. Same thing. It was like, if, if I could get it and knew it was real, that was the, the question mark with the Orals is always is it real? So I only got it if I knew the source. So I knew it was solid. But I can say one thing as a warning sign, I feel that drugs make you more of who you are. I am the most level chill person on the planet. Doesn't matter what I'm taking. Halo, I wanted to kill people. I was like, so I'm dying on the inside apparently because I want to violently kill this person in front of me because she's going to write a check for her groceries. And that's just not acceptable. But that's still not acceptable when I'm not on anything right now. But still not the point. Not that I was going to say. Yeah, you would get in. We don't justify all of this. But, but, but I will say, I felt like Halo and again, it's a last little bit of course. But the first time I did it was 2010 and I did feel like it turned me into sandpaper. I looked like I was cold all the time because I did it for, I think, two, two and a half weeks. But we did a good dose. I won't say I did like 30 or 40. A day. And I mean, I remember like, I, as it started working, I'm like, kind of this is the diet and we're just finishing out strong or what, but like, I was definitely sandpaper and angry. So I think I did it maybe three times of my whole career though because I just couldn't get it that off. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe a good warning is like, if you have any sort of temporary issues or something, it's maybe not to get it. Yeah. Okay. I did have a guy do a show this year. And for the first time ever, he, I helped him and he just used a bit of test and master on and he kept asking me, when do we add the trend? When do we add the trend? Yeah. And I was like, well, your weight cap's going to be really tough as it is. So let's just not do trend. Like, let's just get you shredded and you'll be in the weight and he was like, okay. And then after the show, he told me he's like, that was the best experience ever, not using trend. Huh. Yeah. He's like, he was like, I had like no problems the last month for the show. I just slept, felt fine, did not argue with my wife, competed. And he's like, I don't know if everyone used trend again. And I was like, that's interesting. People got a really realized trend. I mean, lots of guys, the old school guys that I know, they call trend divorce in a bottle. Yeah, I've heard that. That's great. We recently had gone ask that too. Do you need trend for, for when there's expensive bottle then? Do you wind up fucking a something or break in something or no? Good shit. Let's see, question for the next episode. When doing progressive overload, what rep number do you try to hit before moving up in weight? Why operate on a range? So if the, you know, so if the range is 12 to 15, I don't stop until at least 15. Sometimes that means I go over and get 16. I do not understand people that make a rep range like 12 to 15, they get 13 and are going up. I'm like, well, then odds are you're going to get 11 or 10. Like, I don't ever want to choose a weight that I'm not within range on. Yeah, you know, especially I say, I think that's like six to eight reps. Chances are, I'd much rather see a hit 10 on accent than hit three. And guys do that. Like, oh, we're going to three. I'm like, what the fuck were you doing? I don't know that way. Yeah. I could have told you before you started you weren't getting, you know, six Jesus. So high end of rep range for sure is my answer. All right. All right. I agree. Ron's got me angry now. I'm just like, yeah, I know. Oh, Ron. All right. Since you agree, I shall move on to the next one. Andy says, um, oh, wait. Oh, no. Yeah. What's the upper limit of heavy as far as music that Ron likes? I thought that was a good one for Ron. That is a good one. I'm curious. Well, I've said this before my the band that I was like a real true fan of where I like had every album went to see them live, new everywhere to every song, learned a bunch of riffs. The heaviest band that I was ever really into was Pantera. They were like, they're like that power groove metal. I I say they're the greatest metal band of the 90s without a doubt. And dime bag is on my, you know, Mount Rushmore of guitar players. So I would say Pantera. But I've had people send me stuff to like, hey, is this too heavy for you? And it was like, like, um, you know, kill switch and gauge or, you know, five figure death punch and stuff like that. I'm like, no, it's not too heavy for me at all. Some of the new metals a little too studio. Like, it's a little too, I don't know, little too perfect for me. I like my metal a little rough around the edges. So, but yeah, I mean, I like some of that stuff. I'm not into like the hyper technical like Gojera or Mishoga or any of that like really, really complicated, like, symphonic metal. I'm not really into that stuff. What about like, hate breed? Yeah, there's some hate breeds stuff I can take. Yeah, that's one of the places of the gym. Yeah, hate breed. Yeah, yeah, yeah, there's a lot of, there's a lot of like pretty heavy bands that I think, oh, it's fucking pretty cool. And I've seen a lot of bands in concert that were heavy that were really awesome. Like, you know, the, you know, I saw a band called Soulfly. So the guy from Stipple Toura, he started Soulfly. And I saw them a couple of times and they were awesome. And then like, he also some of the, there's some other heavy music like, have you ever seen ministry? Oh, yeah. I saw ministry. Like, I have dark. Yeah, I've seen a lot of twice. That's that's that's dark sort of industrial, electronic fused with metal. Like, it's a very, very heavy aggressive. I was a big ministry fan back in the day. Oh, yeah. Yeah, like that's heavy shit, you know, especially when they see them, when you see them play, you're like, they're fucked up. Yeah, they're fucked up. Not quite the same, but nine inch nails were kind of had a similar following, you know? I loved, so that was one of the best live shows I ever saw was blown away. Yeah. Yeah. I'm still using them too. First one, first concert. Wow. Yeah. Great. But yeah, I'm not into like death metal. Question for Scott on the next show. What's at your best? Which did you enjoy more bodybuilding or sending rounds? I love that everybody on the show knows that turn. I can't pick. It's like, you don't pick in which kid is your favorite. I'm, you can pick kids, get your favorites. I'm supposed to say. You know what, I'm I'm training again, and it's going well. And I'm obviously not, I have as much muscle or as much strength, but I am loving it, all the same as I ever have. So I couldn't, as long as I can still train, I would probably probably pick training, I guess. Yeah. Training trains. I got to help us back to it, you know? Yeah. As well. Yeah. Let's see here, a question for the next episode. I've always learned about bodybuilding training, diet, et cetera, from listening to experience athletes, coaches, perspectives. Since they all have real world application, my question is, if I'm working with a coach for contest prep, and he 100% believes in minimizing all sodium for 16 weeks, which I know isn't good, or he says, doesn't matter what gear you take as long as it's a total of one gram. What do I do here? I'm the guy that came to the coach for help in trying to question these instructions comes off as no better than you. I mean, when it comes to this situation, after watching all you guys videos, I think I do no better. Yes, this is for real on 11 weeks out. Thanks, crew. Dusty at DustyHanshot.com. Yes, I'm a little email. You're currently 10 weeks out. I can still get you ready. Get the sodium in as soon as you see this, because fuck that's dumb, and only to be matched by the dumbness of it doesn't matter as long as it's a gram. So a gram of omnidrin will be just as good to prep on as a gram of master on, but only can be matched by a gram of halo. Right. There's this new idea going around that all steroids are equal. I guess there was a study that said this fire is protein synthesis goes that say master on was no more or less effective than trend. And I think that yeah, but that's going around, and the thought is being presented that all steroids are equal more or less. Yeah. Well, some of them cause water retention through a roomitization and some of them do not. Some of them cause crazy cholesterol problems on blood just to get a lot longer. It's not going to be fun. Yeah. Just see what happens to your blood thick that your thickness on a gram of EQ and watch what happens to your liver enzymes on a 500 anodrol a day or whatever the fuck you want to tell you like there's there's there's there's difference and these studies are infancy like what is this the first study ever done on comparing steroid protein synthesis and a body weight. Well, it's also comparing one thing as if that's the only thing steroid does. Yeah, and they all do essentially enhance protein and nitrogen retention. So yes, they all kind of do the same thing. But you know, it's like having having how's this? Here's an analogy. You can get any guitar player you want that's good. They all do the same thing. But who do you want to tour with and live in the van with and eat with and hang out with? Right? They might there would be 20 guys and I'll play guitar just as good, but there's a lot of other things going on in that band. Yeah. That's very it's a perfect example. I mean, all kidding aside, I really I really would step away from a coach that thinks that though because these are two things that are very important and or or just do ignore those things if the diet is correct. But I mean, I just I don't ever suggest people ignore their coaches either work with them or don't because you can't give someone the credit or disc credit them if you don't do what they say. Yeah, you know, so I really would because that's just and those are two things that to me aren't even debatable. Like that's just wrong. Sorry. Yeah. There's also there's always the option of doing your own prep. Yeah, there is that. Like I did it. I did a bunch of times. It did really good at it, too. You know, I actually just had a client that I told him to do that because he had a lot he had a it wasn't a bad thing. He just had a lot of information. I don't even want to say who's resisting. He was just asking questions and I said, look, man, I'm not mad. Yeah. But I think you should take this alone because the things you're asking are great questions and it's a great way to find out what your body does experiment with them. But why would you want to experiment? Yeah, and pay me to do it because I'm not experimenting. I know what will work. But I'm not saying it's the only way. Yes, that's exactly that's a great point. Well, how come you have me eating oatmeal? Well, because that's what you were eating off season and you clearly like oatmeal. So I kept it in your plan. Like if you're tired of it, let me know. We can swap it out. Like there's no magic that you don't have you know what I mean? People get like that. Yeah. Well, why? Well, that's what you were doing. That's what we're doing. I do because easy. Like when I write diets, I almost write them exclusively with rice outside of breakfast because that's what I eat because it's easy and I'm lazy. Yeah, I never get tired of eating Jasmine rice and people are like, God, I'm so bored of Jasmine rice. Oh, fuck, I'm sorry. Yeah. What would you like? And you know, also just to minimize complaining and any got issues, white rice is what they use on all those inflammatory diets to help people out. So if you just put people on white rice, you're going to minimize, like those other random things that people complain about when they're eating lots of food. Yeah. So yeah. All right, I got one more here. Question for the next episode, Ron, had you handled Phil Heath's nutrition and training for his Olympias? And what ways do you think his physique would have looked different and how from how they and how honey brought him in, thanks guys. Oh, I'm a way fucking better way back. He would have fucking, he would have he would have never one shit. I just bought 2011. God, I'm sure you could fix that mess. Wow. Yeah. No, that's a, I'll take that as a funny question. That's a joke. Question trying to read me a little bit. You know, at the end of the day, this is a great example of how being the opposite of a of a coach jumper can be a great thing. You know, Phil worked with honey. They had some early success. You know, they won this. They got a pro card. They did some shows together. They worked on his physique. They got the Olympia. And then they just they kept working and they kept working and they kept working. You know, Phil didn't, you know, when Phil was getting, you know, top five or, you know, not winning a show. He lost a high green at the Arnold that one year. You know, like when that stuff was happening, Phil wasn't shopping around for a new coach. He wasn't trying to see what is handy, not know. It's pretty difficult to replace a coach who actually fucking cares and really wants to help you. That that can be invaluable. And if you have a coach like that, work with them. He wants to win just like you do. And if you get you'll third at this or Kairin beat me at the Arnold, imagine if he would have fired honey and tried Milo's who knows what would happen. Milo's might have got him in Olympia, but also Milo's plan might have not been great for filling. Might have not mentally been a good match for that complicated of a scheme. It might not a, you know what I mean? Because it's not just about what the coach knows. It's about matching him to your mentality. And get someone who's like, because I'm a pretty relaxed guy. Like, there's a lot of stuff that I don't think matters. And I think it's mental masturbation and a waste of your energy and it causes nothing but stress. But if you're the type of guy who's like ultra fixated on those things, you might think I don't care. Yeah, it's not that I don't care. That's not that I don't care. I don't think it matters at all. So I think you should forget about it and focus on training legs tomorrow. So finding someone that matches and cares, that's invaluable. And that's what Hanyan fill is. That's just a great, a great example of them just, you know, believing in each other and working together. And you know, I still see like a lot of coach jumping. And it's not bad to switch coaches. Don't get me wrong. You could have gone through four coaches in four years and you're not necessarily a coach jumper. There could be legitimate reasons for you switching coaches. But some people are coach jumping and they're looking for a miracle, right? They're like, all I was 10th with this coach. And I was 7th with this coach. And then I was 10th with this coach. So the seventh place coach was a better coach. It's like, no, you were leaner that year. You started leaner. You hadn't easier prep. You didn't have money problems. And the line up was a bit better or a bit weaker. You know, like your placing can't dictate how good the coach was. And I just see, I see people kind of like looking for the solution like all to get into the top five of any another coach and say, no, to get in the top five, you need bigger packs and you put in trying to legs. Yeah. You know, so I don't know. I definitely wouldn't have made a feel heath better. Let's just say that. Phil's Phil's Phil. I'll treat that as a comment question to get us to talk about it. Yeah. Yeah. All right. We might have had more, but that was all I found. So guys, if I'm been to your question, if you want to put it in the next episode, I'd be happy to take it for next time. Bring it to the guys. What do you got, Dusty? You got some questions. See, I do. I want to say that I should have been kicking through him here. I feel like I've talked way too much. So I need one of you to do a rant. I've, I am, I'm so relaxed because you've taken that off of me. I'm so very, very, very. I'm so conscious about my verbal percentage on this episode. It happens. It happens. Oh, God. Oh, this is a good question. I was talking about the first time. God. This is a good question for Scott. Just getting over COVID about two and a half weeks, lost 25, 20 pounds, about 60, 70 percent now as far as how he's feeling. How would you train? You know what? I think so there's this. I think that the new, I don't know how much we can talk about COVID and still be monetized. That said, we're going to do it. I think the new COVID is like COVID light compared to what it was when I got to. Yeah, it's like, yeah, it's for most people at least because I think I don't know about you guys, but literally like every single client I have is caught it at this point. And for most people, it hasn't been a big deal. The people, it's a big deal for the people that catch a fever and then that fever lasts. The new one doesn't seem to attack the lungs as much. That 20 pounds I'm going to guess is mostly water. If it was really, you know, it was really bad. It might take them a little bit longer to pull it back together. But I would say just across the board with training, my thought is to ease back in. If he's in a place where he can train again, this is any sickness, I would say what I've done, if I feel like my body isn't in a place where I'm ready to just go back to you and I might plan, I'll just go real light and have fun with it. Maybe even do like even close to like a full body workout and just like a few sets of everything. And then see how I feel the next day. I think the biggest mistake to do would be just be like, okay, I'm going to go back and go 100% hard and I'm going to push my way through this. But you know, I think that there's a point that we have to listen to our bodies and I think after your sick, that's one of those points. I will also add that if he's dealing with any kind of brain fog or anything, injectable alcarnityn was super helpful for me. And Dante had suggested you pick one all. Coins I'm Q10 for heart inflammation for basically heart remodeling for me. And when I started using that, I noticed that I started feeling a lot better a lot faster and I'm running it at a high dose. I'm still using 400 milligrams of you pick one all a day. Nice. It's good. I was a good question, you actually mean, so I came back from Arizona sick. Yeah, like sick enough that I have not been in the gyms and said I got back. And today I went into cardio and I literally went in and I was like, we'll see how this goes. So I started the cardio at 3.2 miles now and I'm going to 3% inclined. I just kicked it up, up or sent every five minutes to see. Got up to 8% inclined I was fine. So I was like, okay, cool, I'm going to go touch chests, see how that goes. We're shooting a mutant Friday. So I'm like, I'm both trying to make sure I'm ready to train but also don't push too early and I did five sets of chests in left. Yeah, it was like, all right, the wind was like, it's still tell the breathing. I get down with a set, you know, and I was like, you're kind of waiting for the next run. I'm still breathing hard. Fun, I'm still breathing hard. I was like, all right, that's probably enough. So that's how I play it out is based on lungs and a lot of stuff. They'll tell you where you're at, you know, because the strength was fine, but the lungs after each attempt I was like, okay, we'll come back tomorrow, see where we're at. We'll be the same thing. I'm going to do like shoulders. I definitely would do like you said Scott, I wouldn't go in with a plan. Yeah, you know, just going and training even with one body part, like, I didn't know I wasn't going to leave the Smith machine today, but I didn't really know it. It's good. I got a pump. Let's roll. I'm about one and make sure I was full in my green shirt for the X for the episode. Yeah, I think I think I think I think a big part of that too is what you said, see where we're at that next day, right? You know, that'll tell you a lot, because I found for me in having gotten real sick that it would like even when I got to the point, I could get good workouts in, I might be wrecked. Like just wrecked the next day, and, you know, versus now I'm doing pretty good with it, but you know, that would be my thought. Don't just, you know, don't just push through. All right. Next question, do you believe in depletion training on a peak week? I don't really use the term. I don't use that term. I don't really, yeah, I don't use it at term ever. I tell people to train pretty normally. I maybe tell them to stop going to failure the last week, maybe some guys have held them to train normally. And then it's like Thursday, I tell them like, okay, today's your last day, just like get a pump and move some blood around. You don't really use the, I don't change workouts. Whatever put the muscle there, keep it there, try to keep loading things so that they don't leave your body. You got to load the muscle so it stays. And I just back off on like the tear down, you know, like you know, going in and smashing stuff. I just say, okay, like here a week out now, let's just like kiss failure on a couple of sets and just get some good, but I think it's still important to like keep your training pretty normal. I don't like changing a bunch of stuff. You know, the only time I would tell someone for example, jaws when he went up after the van pro 8 himself up to 195 by Monday. And then he wanted to do Chicago on Friday. And he had to lose 12 pounds. So for him, I was like, okay, let's let's pump more volume. Like doom extra sets. Like you got like dollars. Yeah. Yeah, you got to burn all this glycogen off. Like, but I don't normally do that with people. Yeah. Yeah. I might use, I think it varies for me, though. I, I don't call it, I might call it a decent work out, but my goal is just basically to maybe not not have somebody pushing as hard, you know, right, something like that. Uh, there we go. Do I should do I should do you think I should train when I don't feel it? Just don't feel the gym at all these days. Wow. Sometimes a lack of motivation is a sign. A lack of motivation is a psychological symptom of overtraining. Yeah. And that happens with all athletes. If the motivation, you have to be able to tell, okay, is this just me not having motivation? And it's, and I have to just kick in my discipline, right? You know, like during contest prep or something, you might have a week where you just run an on discipline. But then there's also like where you like are like performance inhibited and lacking motivation, you know, and strength is down. And like, though, you know, it can be an unadded symptom of you need rest. You need some time away from the gym to reassess like, okay, I really want to get back in there. So, no, it's the best thing to do is take three, four days off and you're like, fuck, I just want to get in the gym. Right. So yeah, something like that, I just went four days without training. So when I got off the plane yesterday, I was like, I didn't know much time, right? I very small window of time when I got off the plane and I went to the gym, and I pounded chest and biceps in like 40 minutes. And I was like, oh, God, they're so good. Just like reset. You know, dusty caught that just in time. Just be. Mut speed high for sure. Up just two hoses ramlin, walking in. So what happens in my house? Anyways, they're young ones. It's fine. Two, I don't know. All parents call their kids. I don't know. I'm thinking not. I mean, probably not. A little bit of a rollback term in all the G around your house. I just, you know, it is what your house is. Your house is unique circumstances, dusty. You don't have like a little nose. I don't want to. That's for sure. Let's see, nose and flat. I don't know, that is, no, this is one of those things. When cutting, should I try to cut down on mainly carbs until I'm fully depleted, then carb up? Does he mean? He means cutting carbs out like cut down using your carbon tank as your, like your cutting factor. I think is what I took from it. Yeah, maybe. You only, you should only have your carbs as low as they have to be to lose weight. Yeah. You want to eat, you want to eat the most you can eat and still get leaner. You know what I mean? So, you know, you don't have to deplete down to nothing. Like, you know, I had a client tell me, one of my guys that competed on the weekend, he was like, yeah, this prep was so much easier than last prep. I was feeling like guilty, but he's in better condition. It's far better. And he's like, you know, like last year was miserable. And this year, I picked the lowest I went was 100 grams of carbs for like a few days. Right. And I was like, yeah, you're just, you got more muscle, you're bigger, you know, you started leaner, you know, prep's to prep's aren't always progressively worse. So, sometimes that is a mine screw though. I've had that before too, where you're like, you, you ignore the pictures, even though you see them, it's like, I shouldn't be eating this yeah, why am I not hating life currently? That's not good. Yeah, I can't be good. The other guys got to be hating life more than me. Yeah, I'm gonna do, we got one more that I thought was good and I answered it already. But I want to see, you know, I put this, these question boxes up in the plan is to answer them later. And this one I answered immediately, because it's just something that's bothering my soul currently. How to know when the body needs a refeed slash a maintenance break while cutting. Well, keyword needs needs. Well, needs, I don't know, is this a trick question, does he? Are you gonna make fun of my answer? No, I just, I mean, it was just funny, because the, I mean, I'll just tell you what I said, and then go from there. I said, the true answer that it doesn't refeeds have become a fad that I don't think are needed. If you want to get nasty slice, don't plan on them. If your body shows that it needs something, give it to it. Like I do think that that's the problem now is like, people are starting a prep in their saying, like, I wonder what I'm gonna need a refeed? And the word refeed nowadays means pizza and beer and, you know, whatever, I'm not being literal, it's like it could mean, okay, you know what, today, I have 200 extra grams of rice. Yeah, like, you know what I'm saying? The word refeed now symbolizes cheeseburgers and junk. And, and I just, I think that guys were getting more peeled when we back in the day, it used to be nothing everyone back up. Like, and I'm not saying it was like, I think in a radio, when a cardio went up, it never came back down. When the food went down and never came back up. It only got petrol driving. Just got fucking worse. And I'm not saying that that's necessary right, necessarily right, but it's, um, it definitely fucking worked. You got the mentality, certainly produced a lot of slice body builders. Yeah, exactly. And I think if you, if you look, I mean, truthfully, and I, I hate to make this a country thing, but if you look overseas, I think there's a lot less refeeds going on in England than there are in the United States. And when you go to what amateur bodybuilding show there, mother fuckers are sliced. They just are. What do you want to be in really good shape or burger, you know? I have to think that to myself at times, I think we all do, you know? Because it's easy to lose that perspective when you're real hungry. You know what I mean? But right. It's an instant gratification. I just don't think that they necessarily make you that much better. Yeah. Also again, I've had many during my career. So it's not like I'm like taking a stand here. I mean, we just talked about, I mean, Chris had, there were three days in a row, one prep. That I had cheeseburgers and fries. And the third day, I didn't want to do it. I was like, this doesn't seem right. Because it did it felt wrong to be eating that way during a prep. And like Ron said, I was peeled. And it, you know, Chris didn't just suddenly decide to be a nice guy. So that's fucking job. But I do think that most competitors could remove them or definitely cut them way back and be better than they are. Yeah. Yeah. Like I, I, I tell most people, like, have a lot of people ask like, what's your stance on refeeds? You know, but for they hire you. It's a sales pitch. I go part of it, right? Yeah sales pitch now. And I said, listen, I just had a classic guy who went from 240 to his weight cap of 180 in like 24 weeks without a single high day. But then between the first time he hit 180 and his third show, he probably had 10 high days. Yeah, right. You know what I mean? Because you have to get the fat off first. If you're starting your prep at 250 and you're going to be 205 on stage, shredded, you don't need to refeed it to 40. And you certainly don't need to refeed it to 25. You still lose in like big chunks of the kidney fat and butt fat. And like all this stuff, you have to be able to like see all the muscles on your body. Like, oh, the corner of your glute is like there. And you've got fibers in the side chest on your glute and your quads are striding like, okay, now we can look at like what to do to maximize this muscle mass with the time we have left and should be refeed you or not. Like that's how I see them. I tell people, get ready for the first half of your diet to be like, I'm not being nice. Yeah. Right. The first half of your diet, you're going to die for like the two three months straight and you're going to wander like you might never going to get a refeed. And then once you start to like really fucking good, we'll start to look at like, you know, that's sort of see that's how Chris always treated me like he had to 10 weeks like straight and then Chris is like, who should let's so fill you out and I was like, oh, okay, do this now, okay. Yeah, you know, but you got to get a lot of fat off for you need a refeed. It is a sales pitch now, you know, like, you know, my client seed all this food, all this junk food and you know, and I think it works too and at the end of the day, you know, people want to believe there's an easier way. People want to believe it. That bothers me, though, because they used to be it's, you know, it used to be what was the best way. That was the only thing you cared about. Like, what is the best way to get sliced? And now it's, there's stands against it. Yeah, you don't have to do, you don't have to do all that. I'm like, right, but as your way better, because if you're not telling me it's better, I don't give a shit. Like, if, if, you know, white fishing green beans gets me in a better contest shape, it's fucking 12 weeks. I'm down. I can do anything for 12 weeks. Yeah, I've always said that there's two weeks is nothing. There's two types of people. I've always said that there's the people who will ask, what more can I do and the people who ask what more can I get away with? Right. Yes. That's right. That's a good quote Scott. Thank you. I wish that I had to make them do a meme or something, you know. It's gonna shine that with me like to come with a mountain like looking up over. Yeah. Let's leave everybody to dwell on this philosophical proposition of that question. Which competitor are you? What more can I do or what more can I get away with? Okay. Wow. I'm a retired one. Here we go. I love it. Okay. Well, and it that's enough of us talking. Hey, well, nothing new talking. Just like that. Just cut it right there Scott. Did you say, hey, when we knew that, that sounds good. Let's do that. Okay. Thanks everybody. Remember like share subscribe comment. Ring the bell. And remember. Yeah. Ring the bell. And that's questions. And remember, mutin is supporting the show. I am mutant.com. Go check it out. It's North American code you can use. Big Ron 20. Dusty 20 and Dusty 20. So, enter either one of those codes. They both work. Maybe not my get your best delivery. My mind. But I also do have to thank the people that have been using my code because I get an email every time someone uses it. Yeah. It's the show got sponsored. I've noticed a massive uptick. Awesome. The email is like, yeah, very code being you. So 20% of it. Yeah, it's 20% off. So go for me. No, fuck. We are desperately trying to prove that we're worth something to mutant so that you leave us in anything. I will see you this Wednesday and Vegas. Hey, Dusty. Yes, I leave it seven in the morning. We're next week or what's going on. You guys. Yeah, we have the right. Okay. So, one question. I saw on the schedule that we shoot together on Friday. Correct. Yes. Yes. What are we going to train? We have a training schedule, which I don't know, but more importantly, we have an eating mission. Well, the eating is probably my camp weight. I can't wait for that. I just need to know what body part has to be adequately recovered in order for me to train with you. I was going to do late today. You can call it. I'm going to let you call it perfectly fine. Well, you're going to call okay, because I'm not training eating between now and then so other than all of you're just able to show this tomorrow. Remember because I'm still trying to be a yes. Okay. Okay. I'm going to go do legs today and I'll have pretty much everything. I'll be ready if you want. So we can talk about it. Once we get to Vegas Wednesday night, Wednesday night on the schedule, I arrive Wednesday and then Wednesday night on the schedule just says driving range. Yes. We're going. We're going. Yeah, and it doesn't say this yet, but I'm out. I'm worth you smoking a cigar that you never had before. Oh, it's not having them in the ship to the drylands there. So nice. Oh, nice. I have one request. You guys sent gave me one picture when you went to LA and that picture was used for a several thumbnails. And when I had that new picture, we literally got like twice as many views on that episode. So I'm requesting another picture since you guys are going to be together. Do your best. Do your best. We'll get one of you. We'll get one of the cigars. How's that? We get a cigar. How do you hold this cigar? Do you have to hold it like this? Or do you hold it like this? Or you can do either. Yeah, it's either. So all to it's your technique. You don't have to be like like like Columbia. But by the way, if I really enjoy it, I'm like roadchip in that ship. I do get all the way down. Okay. Okay. I will get a cigar pick. We'll get a food pick. We'll get some in the gym. There you go. I need to be good. There you go. Perfect. Okay. So Wednesday two Saturday, me and Dusty, Jamie the giant. Nice. On Dreousha, we got a bunch of people joining us. And our new still kind of secret signed athlete who's going to be our big announcement. Nice. Once you have this individual's been secretly signed for like a month. So it's a little bit sad. I think it's having used them yet. Because they're trying to want it to get some real nice graphics done and like do it right. So we can't wait to announce that guy. He's going to be a great part of the mutant team. And Dusty and I are going to love having them around. So thanks for having me guys. I really appreciate it. Oh, I, I, I lived the, I lived the cat out of the bag. Okay. Okay. Thanks everybody. And remember, it's just bodybuilding.

You know, if someone Googles you and they look at your Wikipedia, they get, you know, greatest power lift of all time, the go 71 world records or whatever it says. And how often would you go to a meet and, you know, you do your opener lift and then you're like, oh, today I'm setting a world record. Like, you remember at some of those when you just knew? 71 times. But answer ever. Hey, everybody. Welcome to It's Just Body Building. Of course, myself, big round part. Low, dusty handshaw, Scott McNally. And on today's show, we have the goat of power lifting, Ed Cone. Welcome to This Show Ed. It's an honor to have you on It's Just Body Building. Oh, thanks. I'm actually happy to be here. Very cool. Yeah, man. I first met you in 2017, actually posted the picture yesterday. And I was real stoked. I just, you were one of those guys that, you know, I was a bodybuilder, right? And I just, I just never expected to like run into you and meet, you know, Ed Cone. And then you were at the, I think it was a slingshot booth that year. Yeah, probably. And I'm just a normal guy. Yeah, like everyone else. Yeah. We had a great chat. And we bonded over the fact that we both tore the same quad. Nice. I blew my, my fatella tendon in half. Yeah, yeah. I did the quad tendon on the same leg. So we had matching scars. So that was that was a little moment where I felt like I had, I mean, Ed Cone have one thing in common. Yeah. I wasn't your strength, huh? No, we're not just right. I think I did mine with a little more weight. Yeah, yeah, you my short. I was jumping on the camera. I'm holding it. I'm holding it. All right. You know, so Ed, you know, if someone Googles you and they look at your Wikipedia, they get, you know, greatest power lift of all time, the go 71 world records or whatever it says. And I just wanted to show you what I did today. I am. Uh-oh. What do we get out here? I asked chat GPT. I'm going to send this to Scott. OK. OK, interesting. Eduro and chat GPT is this new A, it's the new A. And the new shit. Yeah. Yeah, which is kind of scary. This is kind of scary. So I said it to hold this. He's going to throw it up. I asked chat GPT. I said, who is the greatest power lifter of all time? All right. And chat GPT, Scott will throw it up here. There you go. The answer to this question is subjective and can vary depending on personal opinions and criteria. However, many consider American power lifter ed code to be the greatest of all time. Numerous championships, multiple world records, total 2463 at a body weight of 220 was known for his exceptional technique, strength and consistency, which earned on the nickname the greatest power lifter of all time. How do you feel about robots saying this about you? I feel good about anybody saying that about me. That's it was I just thought I wondered what A.I.s going to say. Because you know, it's pretty cool. It's combing the internet. I've typed a few names in and it said, like I've asked it a few of those types of questions before. And it's like, oh, it's difficult to select one greatest. This is subjective. And it just stops there. But let's paint the material. Yeah, there must be enough material that says you that it's forced to be like, that's cool. One more another. I just lasted a long time. Yeah, man. So when did you start training? Like what year was it when you put a bar on your back? When I was actually still in grammar school, I started at a old universal machine that a friend of mine had in his basement. And we're actually doing that. That I'll 15, 14. We actually started off doing atlas's home programs that he used to have. No kidding. No, I didn't. So you wouldn't get sand kicked in your face on the beach. Yeah, yeah. Those kind of routines. We started off that way. And then after we watched pumping iron, it kind of set us off to go crazy. So did you think you're going to get into, I know you did. And we'll probably get into this. I know you did a body-bling show as a teenager. Did you think from the start that you were going to be a body-builder at first? I tried it. And I liked it because I liked lifting. But when I got into it, I didn't like the process as much as lifting heavy. OK. I didn't like when all of a sudden I got strong and gained all this weight. And then I had to lose it. It wasn't fun anymore. Yeah. So then when I then, that was like the Central USA Body-building Championships in 1980. I was still 16. And they didn't even have music to post. That was before that. Dang. And I was in a teenager division. I took weight out there. And I think in the heavy weights for the open, Lance Drir-1 and Tim Bellnap was in it back then. You're kidding me. Yeah, Sergio was in the audience. And not that long after that, like about five months after that, I tried my first power lifting meat. And I was like a Dr. Water. He. It was my thing. Yeah. You never looked back here. Well, I won. Well, here's funny because I was like 150, 2 pounds, even shorter than I am now. And they had to take the weight off the rack and put on my back because the rack didn't go low enough. No kidding. Yeah. That's awesome. But I mean, I wanted to take best lift there. So then I was pretty much hooked. And my whole career, it's always been more of a power bodybuilding routine than anything. I wanted to be bigger and stronger. That's what's really great. And that was one of the things, too, that shock to me looking at your physique. I'm used to looking at the power lifters of today. You looked like just a thicker, jacked bodybuilder. Why was that? What was different about the way you lifted back then? And the way training was back then compared to what the guys are doing now. Because you had a completely different look. It was kind of like a cross between the 80s, WWF wrestlers. A bodybuilder. It's going to send a power lifter. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because like David Smith's looking here. There you go. I'll take that back then. Yeah. I kind of just filled in the blanks. Wherever I didn't want any lift to be weak. So I knew that to get my bench up, I had to have my incline stronger, my dip stronger, my triceps stronger, all the parts of my shoulders stronger. I knew for deadless, I had to have my stiff legs stronger. My bent over rose stronger, my chin up stronger, the same in the squat for a high bar, close stance squat, and all offseason for my quads. Because that was my weakness. So I just put in other exercises that would work my weaknesses that were bodybuilden exercises. And I just shifted them around in season or offseason. No kidding. And so like that extra muscle that wouldn't have any kind of a negative impact or I don't know. I don't know. OK. OK. That's interesting, man. Yeah. You got to figure no one ever set on a bench for being too strong. Yeah. Right. Did you have other people that watched you train that were power lifters that either questioned your training mentality or immediately wanted to adopt it, because it was working so well? Yeah. Everybody that trained with me adopted it. Well, if you wanted to train with me, you can head to. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I would just talk about the other numbers. Yeah. I would write down all their numbers and stuff like that. The guys nowadays, a lot of the people, they do so much volume and squat bench and deadlift so many times a week that they neglect the weakness. And what I always say is, everyone has a strength and weakness. And if that weakness, if there's too much of a gap, that's where either you don't make progress or you get hurt. So in my offseason, I always want to shrink that. And you're at the place longer because you have the less weaknesses. So for example, if you're working, if you want your deadlift to go up, your solution was, you know, get my stiff leg up, get my bent row up, all that stuff. Yeah, where is my weakness and the deadlift? What will do that? So it was usually off a deficit, like a two to three inch deficit, I would do all my work with no belt in the offseason, the strength and everything that needed to be strengthened. So then when I do add a belt and then do go off the floor, wow. Hmm. Right. So you're saying the other people would sort of just focus on their deadlift. Three times a week, deadlift, deadlift, deadlift, deadlift. But when they go to stiff leg deadlift or bent row or deficit, deadlift, they're weak. Yes. Yeah. And that week this shows up in the long run. I mean, everyone can lift lightweight, being weaker with bad form. Put on a bunch of weight and all of a sudden, now you find out what you have to do, you just have to be smart enough for brave enough to get rid of your ego to say, this is what I got to address. I got to work on this week lift. Yeah. Do you remember, do you remember, could you tell, look at guys that were training like during a meet? What their weakness was when they would miss, like when you would see. Yeah, I should always, oh, right, right away, right away. That's awesome. I could tell where they're strengthened, weak was, usually by looking at their physique, too. No kidding. Yeah. That's so cool. Really? I mean, if you see guys up on their chest and monster triceps, you know, he's going to be able to bench. Yeah, right. Yeah. Right. Do you remember where you were, or how old you were when, you know, you sort of realized, like, oh, I'm better at this than most people. When did that really start to show up? I never did. I never thought of it. I really never thought of it. I just thought, I was just out for it for me. I didn't care what anyone else did. I was just out for it for me to hold time. How do I keep making progress? And I could use basically the same routine as long as the off season. I was honest with myself and worked on my weak points. Yeah. That's why I never stopped. I got bigger and stronger. I mean, I ended up weighing the most ever way was like 248 or something for our contest. And I still had some abs. So I never got fat because I kept on putting on muscle and muscle and muscle. I didn't think about it any other way. I didn't give a shit. I really didn't. Yeah. When was your first world record? Yeah. My first world record exceeding lift was in 1984. In 181 pound class in the deadlift. And back those in those days there was only two hour away and no deadlift bar. And I pulled 791. And I was like, what? I was still 20 years old. Oh my god. Oh my god. When, 181. I brain broken. That's why. So did you see that? That's stiff bar. Did you see that? That's a stiff bar. Back when you were a kid working on the universal machine with your buddies. Were you like stacking that machine a lot faster than your friends were? Yeah. So it was like right for the start. Because I was so, I mean my first year in high school I was 4-11, 98 pounds. So my drive was a little bit different than theirs. My purpose was where I looked at myself as the 98 pound weekly. And I had to prove to myself all the time. And it just felt really good to do it. Yeah. Yeah. I could relate to that. Yeah. Here's one. When I used to work out in my basement I had these ISO kinetic machines and a few little dumbbells. And I bought Arnold's book Education of a Body Boater. And I did every single exercise he had in there one whole night. It was like a five hour routine. Because I didn't know what a routine was. The entire book. You're saying you just did the same thing. Yeah. The entire book I did the same thing with Franko's book too. Actually my first, my body boom contest that I did. I took off Franko's poses from the back and did that same thing in order. Oh no. Okay. Because he was a shorter guy too. And he was a strong guy too for a bodybuilder. You've always been. I see what. Oh go ahead. Oh no. You see when I, when I, when I first met Arnold at a Sears store, a big box store. I had him sign like a $5 bill for me. And when I walked up to him, my head was right in his chest. Okay. And I was like, fuck, I can't be Arnold. So then I saw Franco and I saw him at a sporting good source. So I watched him and I saw him like put like a 310 pound set and he walked up and did some deadless with him. Boom. I was in love with Franco right away. So today to me, Arnold Schwarzenegger, you either need to like buy some sort of special package at the urinal classic and then you get to attend an event and then you get to take a picture with him. And he shakes your hand and then you walk away or you have to actually win a show. And then he comes up on stage and asks you how hard you train to do this. But you're telling me there was a time in life that you could walk into a Sears. A Sears and you could meet Arnold. Huh? What was that all about? Yeah, he was promoting his book education of a bodybuilder. No kidding. Michael was Franco, musta had some deal or promoting his little book and it was a sport marks door back in the old days. So what kind of like what was going on there? I'm just trying to picture this. So this is like 19 what first of all. Like 85, 85, 85 was Arnold. No, he started. Like in the late 70s, I think we're ready. So late 70s and Sears and where there other people was there like a lineup or what was like. Yeah, everyone was there watching around him. No kidding. Yeah. That's amazing. That is so weird. I mean, you're like right next to him watching him talk and answer questions and was right out there in the open. It was really cool. That is wild. You even think that that even took place at a time, you know? And Franco in the sporting good store, they just put a chair up where all the weights were and everyone got to walk up right there. No kidding. Hmm. If you've always been a sense of security now. Yeah, right? Oh, yeah, I've always been a, I mean, bodybuilders fucking hard. That's probably why most of the power lifters got involved in power lifting. That's a lot harder. When you throw out all the diet stuff that's rough, there's no way I could have done that. That was, it just wasn't me. I found what I was good at and I loved it. That's interesting. Yeah. Yeah, what I did is I figured if I could get the best of the time. What I was in power lifting in the strongest I could possibly be, I was going to look pretty good anyways. Yeah, I got to find up with some pictures up too because like I said, I was shocked when I first saw what you looked like because like you pull and weight off the floor, I would have thought for sure. Like you had that Franco like look that really packed dense muscle, you know, which is which is very different. Yeah. But it just a very different look than what we see today when we think of what a power liftor looks like. There's just such a separation now between the look of a power liftor, the look of a bodybuilder and I feel like at the time you really bridged that and I feel like that maybe was part of why you kind of can still, you crossed those boundaries in a way, really. I think it's why it lasted so long too. Hmm, no kidding. Because I had more muscles here. So there's less weaknesses. Yeah. Right. How long did you compete for? I'm a 1980 to 2007. So 28 years damn. Because like, you know, and I want my first, like, championship in 84. Yeah. Like that, like power lifting to us, you know, you say all bodybuilding is hard because the diet, but me and Dusty have had this conversation before like power lifting, like you guys are lifting like these crazy, depoundages I just think man, that's like an NFL career. That's like three years tops. Yeah. And you can't, you can't, you can't. You know, 28 years. I trained a guy one time for a power lifting. Me Chuck Sandow, he's from Illinois, he's the head of NPC Illinois. Oh, yeah. He got his pro card. And I trained him for a power lifting meet once and he went 9 for 9, had 27 white lights, but he had to take a whole month off after training because he said his joints and tendons were so sore because he wasn't used to it. That's not how he trained all his life. He makes sense. Yeah. I trained in the, in the, in the, in the back, we're going together. Oh, no kidding. Yeah. Yeah. Where are you, USHM? Yeah. What a great guy. So, yeah, that's funny. I, that's how I feel I'd be. I'd be like, I, I'd need like to go to like a physical therapy retreat or something after the power. Yeah. But if I did a leg routine with you guys, I guarantee I would be in bed for three days. Right. Right. I do, when I hear it's a treat to the leg, I die from a, when you, when you take you guy from a different sport, what do you find is the most difficult part on the mental side? Because for me, I have, I've always been a, I call it power building the way I lift. It's, it's heavy, but it's for reps. You know what I mean? So, yeah. Well, say, oh, you should have been a power lifting, you know, because I was really built better for that anyways, but I don't think they understand the mental difference between, say, stepping back with 600 pounds on a squat and knowing you can do it seven, eight, nine times versus stepping any weight back going, I hope I can get this once. Like, that's a, you know what I mean? It's a mental difference. Like, because I, I know what you mean. Peter, yeah. I never approached a weight. I didn't think I could get. I never called for it. So, my confidence was always right. And I based everything I did in the, in the meat, I'm what I didn't training. So then you get to the camp in your warm-ups. It's like, hmm, am I going to have a good day or a bad day? You got to decide then what your day is going to be like. You can't just, you can't completely base it on what training, because you're not at your own gym, you don't have your own spotters, you're, you've got time, you've got a clock timing you, you've got different judges. So all of it is all different. So you've got to take your, take your opener, make sure it's light enough, and then decide how am I going to pick my numbers? I didn't just go in and say, at this meat, this is what I'm going to lift and that's it. No, I based it on how I felt all along. That's what you're doing. How often would you go to a meat and, you know, you do your opener lift and then you're like, oh, today I'm setting a world record. Like you remember at some of those when you just knew? 71 times. But it's answered ever. So essentially what you're saying is all is those 71 world records, they weren't a surprise by the time you actually set them because you knew earlier in the meat. No, not at all. It's already. I knew what I didn't training. Yeah. Yeah. That's awesome. How often, how often would you be lifting something at a meat that you had never lifted? You were just going out. I was all the time. I'm almost all the time. I was. I never, I never maxed out in training. I always saved it for the meat. One time I was in Russia, when Russia was still Russia and we were at a old gym with all these old Olympic weight lifters and they told us that don't blow your rod in the gym all the time, you only have so many maxes in your body and your lifetime that you're capable of. So I never did. Right. It was a fairly heavy double into the ninety, like 95 percent. And that was more than heavy enough. Because all the training I did before, by the off season, all the beginning training up until about three quarters of a training cycle are all to get you stronger. And then at the end, it's just make sure you peak right and you hold on to that strain. What there's a lot of like different power lifting, you know, from a bodybuilder looking in, obviously, I don't fully understand the power lifting world. I'm a buddy of a Dave Tate, you know, I know Mark Bell and you know, I know you and like to stuff like that. But there's all these different systems. You know, I see the, I hear about the five three one and I hear about, you know, westside conjugate and you know, all these different sort of systems. How are you feeling? And all these are the ones now. Yeah. I mean, is there anything now that you say, well, that sort of how I trained, like, what system would you have fallen into? Or was it just totally, Oh, literally, literally. Organization. Just okay. I learned from old time bodybuilders and strongmen, they used to do all of them together. Hmm. So I wanted to be big and strong. Yeah. Right. But story my life. And with all, with all the systems, they all work and they all don't work. It usually depends on volume and how you pick your numbers. If you don't, if you aren't realistic, you'll always fail. What happens usually when someone fails a routine usually it's about, uh, they picked it or I'm numbers meaning, built in. It's really easy. Then they say, well, why would I go this this week when it was so easy? I'm going to go this instead and they go heavier. Not realizing that messes up the end of the routine where you're going to end up at. So about 75% of the way through the routine, all of a sudden they miss a lift and they don't start feeling good. They feel drained because they're overtraining because they screwed up. It's not the routines fault. It's their fault. So you got to be realistic in every single every every number I figured on on paper. And I'd write a routine down 20 times sometimes. It was like that, uh, was that Jim Carrey movie 23 or somewhere at all the numbers written down all over the place. That was me. I would write routines. But every single week had the build for the next week, but at all, all of it had to be doable in my mind already. It doesn't mean it's not challenging, but it was all doable. And that's why it worked. Right. I was told once that, um, you know, because I remember when I was young and much, dumber, um, I, I said, I said, Hey, I don't understand, you know, power lifters. I heard someone say they don't train to failure. And you know, at the time, I was thinking of body building and I were just like training hard and all that. And I was like, why don't they train to failure? And, and someone told me they, they don't ever want to do a rep that isn't perfect. Because they're also programming their nervous systems to lift perfectly. And if they start doing four straps and stuff like that, things aren't exactly the way they should be. You know what I mean? Is that so? No, it doesn't. And it does put you in a state where you can't recover from. Ingo heavier the following way. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not, we don't want, we don't care about a pump. Not on our main exercises that much. Even though I might drop down to do a set of 10 in the off season and start my training routine off like that, the purpose is for more speed. It's more challenge when you got when you get higher in the reps at the end to hold your technique and a drive through it. Those a little bit of testicular fortitude. And it is hypertrophy. Yeah, yeah. But I love how you, I love how you said like, you know, one of the reasons that you throw it in was just because it sucked. Like build some testicular fortitude. I like that term testicular fortitude. That's I'm stealing. I've got to get it. That's not a school or I can't help it. School, I love that. You've got to learn how to fight through something for when it's going to be heavy. You know, you take a weight off at a comp. It's like I said, because all the conditions are different than home, you got to have your shit dialed in as far as mentally. And that that's the start of the lift. Usually most lifts and I even said on Dave Tates is it happens 90% of lifts are miss at the very beginning when you start the lift. Not and that doesn't mean when I start the sentence, squat, that means when I take it off the rack. How I approach the bar has to be perfect. That dictates how I grab the bar, how I set up under the bar. All that has to be perfect for a perfect setup. Now after that, now you can squat. If that's off a little bit, right when you start going down, if that's off, how you're going to be in a good position to come up with it, just like a squat or a bench and a definitely also. So that part is very important. And a lot of that is built through a systems work where there's not a weak point. So my every part of my back could squeeze from from the lower part of my, my neck all the way into my lower back, every part of my back, I would squeeze into my spine and be able to do that. Well, a lot of guys don't even have lower lats because they know work that shit. Well, that's the bridge. That's the bridge you have your lower body and your upper body. Those lower lats is the length that holds everything together. So upper and lower body, like in a squat or a deadlift can work at the same time. If that part is weak, that's when the fall over. Right. Right. Yeah, that's it. You know, it, it makes sense to me as a body builder. You know what I mean? Yeah, like you know, you want your reps to be perfect. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, definitely. I want to get a favorite story. Exactly. What you want out of it. Yeah. What one of my favorite stories about you had is that there were there was a point in time where you'd go to lift or you'd go to meets and your warmups would be more weight than they actually had back stage in the warmup room. So you'd have to go out onto the platform to do like unofficial warmup lifts. Is that true? Yeah, it was in in Las Vegas. I walked out on stage. Uh, I didn't even time. I used it was like 850 or 870 was my last warmup. 870 I think. So I walked out on stage and didn't walk back. Oh, God. And they're just like, I was just hoping for the competition. It's just a number. I didn't even time I choose. Yeah, I used to jump. I think the most I ever went out, walked out and squatting was 892 without time. Before I decided on maybe I should time it's just a just a time to use after you 92. Yeah. So we all have a 100 requires to choose. Tell us about the one you'd you set that crazy total. Uh, what did chat GPT say it was 24 24. So you're still in like 63. Yeah. Uh, at at at 220 pounds. Correct. Yeah. Yeah, and those days there was a two hour weigh-ins. Yes. So what would you do? Would you have to make like, did you have to do a lot to make way or were you kind of 220? Um, when I went up to 242, I didn't, but I did, I went up to 242 just so I could squat and bench more weight. My levers were good. So I didn't have to worry about getting, you know, that messing with my deadlift or anything because I had these, you know, freaking monster hands. I can actually still palm a basketball with that hand. So yeah, okay. So you've got really long fingers and giant hands for a short guy. Really, you might. Yeah, my, my, I've got a really, really wide fist. So you've got a great bar wrap. So that really helps your deadlift. And I worked tonight. I had a trip before with bar holds. Hmm. Yeah. That's, that's funny. So just those structural, you know, those things that are structurally good for that lift. Big hands. What else would be great for deadlifting long arms and a very large back. And a very large bar. Okay. A part of the, so tell us about that. It melts about that net the 2400 total at 220. What where was that? Let's see, 2463. I believe that was in Las Vegas. Okay. So Las, I squat. I squat, I squat it. Yeah, I squat at a thousand three that day. I benched like 5.73 or 78. And I deadlifted 87. I switched from sumo to conventional for that. Me, because I had torn a little piece of an inductor and training. So I just decided to go conventional and I could still pull nine if I wanted to. So I just wanted the total record. At the time, a guy named Anthony Clark had the total record. He was a super heavy weight though. Yeah. And a different, and a different Federation. So I was like, well, I was a powerlifter first looking to be the best. So my object instead of taking nine hundred, I told 887 just to make sure I had a higher total than him that day. Right. So what was the closest, which lift was the most maxed out that day, the thousand three squat? I'll probably the bench, because what my long arms, it wasn't exactly conducive to big benches. Even though I mean. I still, I still doubled 550 raw and training and did 550 for a pause with my feet up. So it's not like I had a bad bench. But it was weaker compared to the other two. Yeah, I've heard you say before that you really felt like you connected to the squat. And that's something that I love the squat personally. What, what is it about that movement? And I feel like if you like the squat, it can be like an entire love affair of its own, just with that movement. Can you talk about your relationship with the squat? I really like the mental aspect. Yeah. And the way I squat, you know, that cue open your tank. Okay. It's never heard, but it makes sense. If you learn how to open up your hips from up high before you squat, you know, the hip, the hip and shoulder are the same way. It's going like this. Right. Well, if you don't open up your hips, your hip flexors end up flexing hard and stop you from going down all the way. But it ends up making. So your hip doesn't rotate in the socket. So you don't use your hips in the rest of your hamstrings the way you should. Where it would be like doing a high bar close to hand squat, um, with your heels slightly raised. That would be all quad and no hip whatsoever, which is good for development. But not for what we want power. Yeah. So once I learned the reason why everything felt so good, I, that's when I started adapting it even more. But, uh, yeah, it, I, I just love it. I love being able to get under a tabar and walk it out and make it feel light. Yeah. That's a challenge. What's the most you've ever walked out? Uh, uh, 1041. It was a 10 Scott in case you missed it. Yeah. Did you squat it or were you just wondering where you're just walking it out? I just, I just walked it out and training to feel it. Okay. Still. If you can make it feel light, it's going to be light. Yeah. Man, how many, you know, what's it like to, I mean, I know that you've, you've been this guy now for a long, long time. But is there anything that you look back on, you know, like being a thousand pound squatter or the 2400 total or is there anything that you look back on that you're kind of like, you feel is is is is kind of the most, I don't know, a significant thing that you did. Is there something that you're proud of stuff? Well, that's sort of what I used for my kind of do for things. Yeah, when I squatted a thousand nineteen because it was walked out and it wasn't an amount of lift and when I deadlifted nine up, my deadlifted nine, oh one at two, 20 was with two hour away and with actually drug testing and on a stiff bar without a deadlift bar. And I pulled nine or one in that mean. Wow. So those things you'd say like technically would be the most significant. Yeah, they, they stand out to me. How many thousand pound squatters have walked out their thousand as opposed to using those. Most, I think all of them have been heavy weights. Right. And we can do 75. I pounds up. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Wow. What's your favorite bodybuilding memory of all the expos you've been to? And, you know, because you've been to the Arnold Neal MPN all that stuff. So funny one of the shows and you watched them. What's your favorite one? You've been inducted into the Hall of Fame at those shows too. Yeah. Yeah, Arnold. I sorry, I didn't put this thing on. Before the Arnold one year, I was out in California doing some weater stuff. I used to actually go out to lunch with just Joe Weater and my self was really cool. You're kidding me. And well, all the time, I had a, I had a contract with Weater because Fred had field used to be there and he got me in the door. I, and all the sporting good stores, they're used to, weater used to have the old time leather belts. Yeah. And he had a, he had a box of belts and all the stores with my picture on the back. So I used to go out there all the time and Joe would give me a car, give me a, uh, right right on Santa Monica Beach, right on the beach. He'd give me a suite and everything paid for and I'd have a riot out there. And just to do a couple photo sessions. That's so cool. I, I, I, I, I went to Arnold has a restaurant at least he did at the time called Chatsies, right in Santa Monica. And I went there one morning for breakfast and afterwards when I walked by his table, he was with a couple guys, uh, old time guys and one of the photographers and they invited me to sit down for a second. And Arnold didn't really know who I was. So as we started talking about powerlifting because in the old days, he trained at a power lift or Olympic lifting gym in Germany for a while. Okay. So he asked me what my list were and he was eating some strawberries at the time. And I said, what, like what? Well, my squad at 220, I squatted at the time, 1970. And when I said that he, he's just about strawberries. I was like, oh my god, this is so good. I had a, I had a semi-election of course. Yeah. It's amazing. But the, the funny part is a couple months later when I was at the Arnold, um, as he's walking around with his arm garage, I think, during H had a booth and I was at during H booth and Arnold walked by and I had my back to him. Yeah. And he tapped me on the shoulder, turned around and he goes, hey, Eddie, I think you got taller. And then he laughed and walked away. He burned me just like that. That's great. Yeah. Give you a shot and walk. For cool. Yeah. Yeah. It was pretty cool. So I love, I love how that story tied Arnold with Dorian. Yeah. Yeah. That's a real, you know, real bodybuilding memory. That was pretty neat. And, and I got the, I got the sit next to Franco at one of the Hall of Fame things. Oh. And I can, I told him that story about how I did with Arnold and that how I met Franco. Yeah. And then Franco, Franco looked at me and said, so you got in the parlor, I think, as I'm saying, yeah, you were my idol. I said, and I want you to know Franco, I do have a slight erection right now. And he put his head down. He started laughing. It's amazing. Yeah, that was right. No, it was great. Yeah. It was great. That was great. Yeah. Yeah. And Franco's, he's still like the bodybuilding. Of course, he didn't like that a lot of the guys work as athletic as a lot of the old school guys. That's what he didn't. He didn't really care for. He wanted some people to double show that they could do some things. Yeah. Right. Yeah. I remember pumping iron. He's like skipping rope still and hitting the back. Yeah, boxing. You know, he's going to move it in a house. Yeah. Yeah. Round and moving the car and all that stuff. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think we get, we get back to a lot of that stuff as we get older after you, like, our competing anymore. You want to be a little healthier, a little more. That can be able to move. Yeah. Yeah. What do you do now? That was a good training. That was a good training. Yeah. I still do all the same stuff. I just don't go heavy. Okay. And I corporate, I've been doing a lot of counter violence training with JKD stuff for a long time to make me move and have coordination, which I like. You've been doing that for a while now. Yeah. I like that a lot. I have a lot of violence inside me. Matching, matching, matching, matching, getting a fight with that Cohen. That wouldn't be fun. You know? And it puts everyone would just hate you. Why are you fighting at Cohen? It's crazy. It's crazy. Yeah. I'm just kidding. Yeah. I'm just kidding. But they're the person who you did. You have to fight at Cohen. That's funny. Yeah. So when you you call that counter violence. So is it sort of specifically, like, self-defense? It's more like, street-gation. It's more like, it's a street. Yeah. What actually is really going to happen? So there's no rules in that kind of training. It's a fight. I can't believe that. I've seen. I jam whatever it takes. But so a lot of that stuff incorporates all the other real stuff. Like if you go to the ground, you've got to know wrestling and you just do along with whatever else you've got to do to live. Your wrestling is a kid, too, didn't you? Yeah. I was 98 pounds. My freshman year in high school wrestling. No kidding. And so that you're coming full circle now, basically, is what it comes to. There you go. Yeah. Minus 98 pounds fart. Yeah. My headways 98 pounds. I know we're kind of getting into where you're at today. But I have to go back. I just wanted to ask you. So you had said, you went over to Russia and you're training with those guys. And I'm thinking back to, there's like this, like, air of mystique and, like, almost like, yeah, the USS Russia. And that's what it was. This was before Paris strike and all that other stuff went on. Okay. So I've heard stories of, like, some of the Olympic lifters and stuff who have gone over there and they've had the opportunity to train with some of those guys. Like what were those guys like, what was it like, did you get to know with some of those guys and, you know, what was your experience with it? I was over there for the, for the very first powerlifting need ever. And they used a Olympic lifting barn bumper plates. So that was murder just trying to squire. They're like, this is all the way down. You know, praying, praying like, you know, Eddie Murphy and Rob falling down stairs all over the Lord of God, please help me. That was amazing. I'm not trying not to, trying not to shit your pants. And because the barn is the forest tremoring. Yeah, it's going all over the place. Oh, God. But it was just like, there was just old. It was the beginning of powerlifting over there. So no one really knew anything. They were basing everything on the old Olympic weightlifting. They didn't know as much about regular powerlifting. They knew about like speed and technique. But they didn't know about training at or assistance work. Okay. What were they doing? They were just super kind of like, what were they doing right because of Olympic lifting? And what were they doing wrong because of Olympic lifting? They didn't know as much about sets and reps and building. They didn't know as much about technique for powerlifting because it was more high bar close stance Olympic lifting squats. They had never done a lot of deadlift at that point. It was like stiff legs or Romanian, not power deadlift. To give you an example, there was a lifter from Bulgaria who had the world record in a snatch at one time was a high force 70 and Tonya Crosschev. And he came to our world once and I saw him in a warm-up room take 750 for three reps with no equipment on whatsoever, just playing with it. But when he got in the meat, he couldn't squat 80 because he hadn't built the absolute strength. A lot of Olympic lifting is speed strength. So after, like an Olympic weight lift that you could take an 80% weight and jump on a whole and try through a sticking point because the speed from the bottom will take you up to that point. Yeah. But when you can't get high enough up to that point because the weight doesn't dictate it, you allow a rely on absolute strength and they didn't have that. So he had a bombing in the bench with like 460 but he had a like a 560 clean and jerk at the time. So it's just, and his best done if he told me was only like 760 at the time. So it's not like a lot of that stuff transfers over. It was very sports specific. Okay. Right. I had a question here. I know this guy. He said, what do you see is the biggest issue in strength development within the athletic sector right now? So what are athletes? What's the main issue that you see athletes trying to get stronger doing wrong? They don't do squat bench, deadlift, bent rows, overhead presses and stuff like that enough with good technique at a high enough intensity. They rely on too much stuff that makes them look pretty. Hmm. I feel like that's kind of what we say all the time here. Yeah, that's a good foundation body really. Yeah. Yeah. It's a pretty thing you do. It has to have a purpose. I never did a set or an exercise that didn't have a certain purpose. That was to get me what I wanted. Why would I do anything different? So if I want my hamstring strong, I know I got a squat low and I got a deadlift and I got to do stiff leg deadlift. If I want my upper back strong, I know I got a deadlift and do a ton of back work. And I don't think a lot of those guys do it. Like you could take a lot of football players. They have this God-given ability to be able to be so great in football. But to be able to last, especially in a contact sport for a long period of time, you have to be strong in all these different areas you can't just rely on that. And a couple of years is millions of dollars for them. So definitely your off-season should be that in your in-season should definitely be staying strong just enough to get through the season. And there are some good, definitely great strength coaches. I mean, Joe Ken was one of the best NFL coaches for strength of all time and he still, he helps Brian Shaw now. And he knew it. You know, I got to keep these guys healthy. But in order to keep him healthy, they still have to train. Yeah. But you look at a lot of their contracts. They actually build in like a few hundred thousand dollars for some of them if they train in the off-season. That's a bonus. Hmm. Okay. Hmm. What about the food? Let's talk about food. You know, we're all- I ain't whatever I want. Yeah, there you go. I ain't whatever I want. And then I had a steak every night before I went to bed. So what we all had in the structure of your diet was. When I had to die it. When I had to watch my weight. Did you have to come down much in order to make weight when you're doing like the 220? As I got, no, at 220, I would, I think I dropped 12 pounds once which was something. But we did, we actually had to die it because we didn't know if there was no water loading or anything like that at the time. Okay. So you just had to like literally get leaner then. Yeah. And the worst, the worst I was was when I was at 165 and I couldn't get the weight off. And I took three shots of laces at night and it still wouldn't come at. I had my butt was like rich asparagus. You could have gone to a bodybuilding show for that one. Yeah. It just, it wouldn't come off. And I ended up weighing a pound heavy and then I had to weigh in two hours later. I already gained 11 pounds and two hours. So you didn't want to do bodybuilding because you didn't want to have to die it. You went to powerlifting and then he ended up having to die and got peel off. Yeah. Yeah. Yep. So what would be like, you know, when you were 220, set in that total, that 2463 total or whatever. I mean, you know, were you the type of guy that had a massive appetite? So you just easily ate all day or were you like forcing food? I get it. I get it. I never forced it, but I would eat a little more often. And like I said, I'd have a steak right before I went to bed to get a little extra mixture. I got extra in. And then I felt great in the morning. So in training was going good. So why would I change it? You know, yeah. Yeah. Were you taking meals to the gym like were you packing meals around? No, right, right after the gym, we'd go to the sizzle right on the street. It was like a ritual four or five times a week. I love it. We used to do pizza hot after leg day. You know, it was great. Good. All you can eat. Well, the, the, the, the, the, the kind of the lottery in the jokes. Right. Yeah. So that's a big part of it. Like was that, did you feel like power lifting was just, you just, you just felt at home and you felt like the other guys were brothers and was there like a brotherhood feel to, yeah, all the guys that trained with us were great. And actually the whole gym would get behind us when we lifted heavy, which was cool. Right. It's cool. And it makes sense. I was going to say I was just wanting to add in. I feel like everybody I know that knows you, and people that have known you for a long time, they've also that you're a really humble person and that you've always been that way, which I find it interesting because to be a guy that is so absolutely strong and like, you know, knowing, knowing you off the air, like having had conversations with you, you're just a super laid back chill person. You would never know that like, oh, this is literally the strongest guy right here. Well, I always thought of it like this is in the gym when you're talking about powerlifting and strength. You can ask me questions. I'll know them. Outside the gym, if I wanted to do some bodybuilding or diet stuff, I would ask you guys, I don't know how to change the oil on my car. Yeah, I don't know how to do this and that and that in the gym, this is my thing. So that's obviously all I know. I mean, that's the shit I know. So I'm not better than anyone else. Yeah. What would you say as your, your, your, which gym would you kind of say as your main gym that you spent most of your career at training at your highest level? Quad. Quad. I've been like, yeah. Well, you've been to one in a city, probably, right? Yeah, this diddy. Yeah, we didn't want to in a city. Yeah. The one in the suburbs was your either a copper of felon, mostly felon. That sounds like the gyms here in Detroit. We had a good time. Yeah, we had a good time. Actually, I have a business in the can of Michigan. Oh, you're in, oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. I was going to ask you about that, too. So I didn't realize you were set up in Michigan. Yes, what about the one you can. Why would you have our business set up in Michigan versus in Chicago? We business. It was easy to start business. Yeah, me, my friends that we have a, a processing lab right in Michigan and you can and we make a product from, we, we adopted a product from a part with them from Colorado called Kushmaster and we're, we're like, boom, labs where we break down leaf and turn it into concentrates like for labs or we put other the oil and carts alive, rosin. So we break it down in ice water and heat pressure, no chemicals. So it's more organic and it's stronger and better. And I'm not even a weed smoker. How do you do some gummies or some tonics? That's it. How long ago did you get into this business? Um, it, it took us like three years because of COVID and stuff to get everything going. No kidding. Where we at the build our lab and all the other stuff, all the licenses. So you, so we're, you said you're good. Yeah, you said you're not a weed smoker. So, well, did you have any contact with the weed world like was weed around you and power lifting all the time or you just got into this just purely business? Oh, I, I always knew a bunch of people that did. It just wasn't my thing, but now I'll take a gummy now and then or a little drink of a tonic that will put me right to sleep. And anything you can do that makes you sleep better or have no pain is always good. Yeah, yeah. What's your situation with pain? Like how how much pain? Pretty good. I do, I do have some some pain in my shoulder still, but you know, my, my mom had osteo and rheumatoid arthritis. She had both knees replaced the shoulder, a hip. Her hands were messed up or feet were messed up. So I got some of that probably why I had to have my hips replaced. But I could still squat and deadlift. I don't really bench you about any more, but I'm, I'm going to Mexico next month to lose cobbos to get some stem cells. See if this works out really well. Yeah. Nice. What are you going to get? Like a million to the put in you. Like do you have that all right? Yeah, I think I think they put like 20 or 25 million in each shoulder and then I'm going to get 100 million IV. Okay. That's why. Wow. And go big. They have to, yeah, don't they, they take them from inside your own bill of the court, right? Like no, yeah, that's a different process. Yeah. And yeah, in the states, they take it from either your fat, which is kind of inferior, bone marrow is good, but they can't get that much out of it. But the best is from the umbilical cord, which is the, so it's not even as stem cells. So it's not technically your own personal stem cells, but it doesn't matter because they're stem cells. Yeah. And that's how they develop them. Yeah. I think you want to go to God. I'm going to Dr. Khan. He actually did. Ronnie after the Olympia out and Dubai. And he also clinic in Mexico. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, I've heard of. I'm so good. Oh, I was just going to say, I want to, I'm going to send you a message after I want to, I want to know a little bit more of how much this all cost is got a check. I did some research on it. Oh, I'll go in it. I mean, it's not, it's not terrible, but so from what I understand and tell me if I'm wrong about this, Ed, that in the US, they can't, which, which the term, they can't expand the cells, but in that's, it's stem cells. And that's what you, that's what you want. We can't expand the cells here in the US. So meaning you, you don't have nearly as many cells. You go down there and that the laws are different. So they can expand them and then you get a lot more cells, basically. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. But you're going to have to take time off training, aren't you? No, no. I thought, okay, they told me you'd have to take time off to, to heal. Yeah, that's the one place said that, but this doctor said that's really not true. Okay. We don't have to take time off training. Okay. That's like if you had some debilitating injury, yeah, he wouldn't want to keep re-injuring it as you try to heal. Right. But, you know, when, when I did it, I did them before in Columbia. And I was with a guy one night, we were getting our IVS themselves. And he had had a stroke like six years previous and he was probably at least 10 years older than me. So, you know, his arm was all locked up in front of them bent. Yeah. And one of his legs didn't really bend bent. The next day, the next morning, he walked around in a circle, circle, bending his leg and lifted his arm up like this that he hasn't been able to lift. You can't. That's why I wasn't a dry eye in the house. It was unbelievable. Use code. What did he do? You can expect. Yeah, you go to. I have a call with him. I have a call with him Wednesday, but a lot of stuff is, you know, my buddy who had his elbows is shoulder is back done and his neck. He said to this day, he's still at around 80% of feeling fantastic healed compared to what it was before. That's why I know Joe Rogan had. He tore both his rotators and he said the side that he had stem cell is like way better than the side that he had surgically repaired. Yeah. Yeah. And he goes back. He goes to a place in. Panama, is it? No, no, he goes to a place in Mexico that a buddy is as so he goes. He goes, he says, Zipson and Zips out all the time. He did have the guy, there's a place in a bio-accelerator that I went to before in Colombia and the other place in Panama, he had a doctor on Dr. Reardon who Mel Gibson was on his show with him and talked about his dance progress. I know that guy. I know that guy. Yeah. Yeah, he's wrote some books, but the other guy I go to is a deal con who I met at the Swiss. He was at the Swiss symposium. Oh, no kidding. Yeah. And I talked to him there and Ken Kenak and vouched for him. He has a lot of pieces of the puzzle figured out compared to a lot of people. So me and my friend, my friend is flying a total of seven of us out there. I can't believe I'm a private jet right out there. That's wild. That's wild. Bitch. Just get it going. I can't see up. It's something that you're quite. He's something you're quadrong. Yeah. In the old days, there was a, there was a, there was a Lister named Doug Young. He was a monster Texas guy and when the first, my first, uh, open nationals is when they were going to start drug testing. Yeah. And he stood up an objection and said drugs are so good. That was his exact, that was his phrase. It turned out to be true. Rugs are the salvation of America. It's unamerican. Yeah. Yeah. Choose up. I got a question. He had a task. Yeah. Yeah. Scott's got one. So it's actually a video. It's a video. Actually, oh, oh, I'm going to guys get ready for this. I want to know. Oh, yeah. I want to know what that's all about. You guys see that that we got a tiger here. First of all, yeah, this is this is at the beginning of a video. I think this is 95 and yeah, after this. That was, that was a, that was actually a smaller tiger. That was a Bengal tiger. Okay. I used to have two, two Siberians. You know, a white one that got, they got to be about eight hundred and fifty pounds and I had a regular colored gold one. You can. My, my, my, my, my one got to be like seven foot tall, eight hundred and fifty pounds and he was still loved me. That's crazy, man. That's terrifying. That's I had a federal license for it. Oh, of course. Yeah, I was assumed. So what do you have to do like you just, you apply, you say, I want to get a Siberian tiger in a Bengal tiger. And they do. Well, if you have a, you have a license, if I knew people that had them. So I would use my license and go take them home all the time. That's so wild. Just hang out in the basement, walk around the block. That's wild. Just borrow a tiger for the tiger. Yeah. Where's the sea? Like, there's, I've been, walk in a tiger. I would think I was like, What's the, yeah, like, like, like a can. There's something on the table. Right. Yeah, let's, let's say the neighbors have a couple of dogs and a couple of kids. What do they think? Yeah. Our, a neighbor did the dog came out. It was a, a black lab and he barked at it. And my tiger was young at the time, but he just turned around and opened up his mouth really wide like a yon. And then you see these big teeth like this. Dog went up back at the, yeah. Yeah, that was only about eight or nine months old right there. In the backyard. Cheese. In the wild. In the snow and Illinois with you. See you did get a lot of people bothering you. Yeah. Yeah. Every sort of last year. The everyone used to want to see it and come over. Yeah. When it was smaller, it was pretty cool. Yeah. So what happened? Rick, you said you're, you reached 800 pounds. Do you have to like, does he have to go somewhere? Yeah, like, is that what happens? That, that little white one got to be 850 pounds. Cheese. And how old was, was that by the time it hit 8, 850? Probably like six or seven. That was actually an in in, in Closet, Jim at the time. And when when the Mr. Olympia was in town. So all the writers came over to Closet, Jim and I let it loose play with them. Oh my god. This is a tag of it. This is like the 80s and the body building. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Wild animals just yeah. So then, so yeah, there was a good, good crazy back then. Yeah. Yeah. So do you have to send them to a zoo like what happens? Yeah, like you put them out to like breeding programs and stuff like that. Okay. Right. So so he's happily pumping away at female taggers. And I'm sure he did that for a long, long time. This is a good retirement program, Dusty. I'm sorry to see him. Mornin this. I'm learning. I'm learning. I'm right. No, sir. Yeah. Yeah. Like Tyson. You said up. Yeah. Like it's set up to a breeding program. So maybe the best, you know. But you have to be the best. Then your seed is worth something at least. Yeah. So is that what you're going to do next? Wait a minute. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Oh, no. Yeah, I can't go to Russia. I'll probably kidnap to go to Russia, Saudi Arabia. Oh, no. Don't do that. Please, please don't. So I would ask you to. One other thing was just that you know, having followed body building for a long time and been involved in strength sports for, you know, your entire life really. What do you think about what you're seeing today? Because you're still there. You're still watching the shows. You're still at the exposed. You still know. I love competing. Yeah. What are your thoughts on body building today compared to, you know, years back? Well, obviously the the substances guys take are different. Yeah. But it does it never takes away from the hard work and diet that everyone goes through. No, if if if people could see that like videos of that like if they showed it on stage, someone beat the shit on their legs or going through it just a week near the end of a diet, it would get so much more respect than it does. Well, they see as guys on stage posing, they don't get to see what they fucking go through, which is crazy. And I've been, I've gone through my version of crazy and they're crazy in the me. I couldn't do what they do. No way. Who do you like, like right now when you were when you go to the, you know, you're at the Arnold right? Who's physique do you see where you're like, man, that is. Oh, break that up. Perfect. They're breaking up. Say it again, Ram. Oh, who do I think is? I just say I did see. I saw Phil Heath when he won the Junior Nationals here. And that was like the most perfect physique ever where everything matched from, from his toes up to his head and it was like you couldn't, not know that he was going to be great. Yeah. And you know, and I like guys like, color who couldn't win for a while, but didn't fricking quit. You know, look what John Meadows went through to get his pro card. I like that. Yeah. And then it is someone is, is someone is nice. I like him even more. If they're a dick, they're always going to be a dick. Yeah. Yeah. Well, Ed, I mean, you gave us an hour of your time to get an hour from the goat is, is an honor for us. It's nothing on our whole ship. All right. A little bodybuilding show here. So we're very happy to get you on. And again, always a friend of the show. It's good to see you at the expo and you know, even just get a hello in there. And I'll let it all out. I'm wearing a horse. So let's go. Yeah, please do. Yeah. Definitely. We want to know all about that. And yeah, you know, just the greatest of all time, I know that you probably get tired of hearing that, but you know, you get tired of hearing that. And you get tired of hearing that. Yeah. Yeah. You're tired of hearing that. No, you don't. That's funny. It's okay. So Ed Cohen, thanks for coming on the show. How can people get a hold of you? You're you're Eddie Cohen on Instagram. Just by my. Yeah, just just look at my Instagram. I answer every message. And I, I usually, if you send me a, if people send me a video, I let them know what's good and bad about it for free. I don't even charge. You're kidding me. Right. Awesome. No. That's so nice, man. Your hamble. Your ham's a week more stiff legs. Yeah. There you go. Send. You know what? Usually, usually it's to open up the hips and they get your sternum up. That's usually the key. Mm-hmm. Well, yeah. Right. It's incredible, man. And that's what I mean. That's what humility just to let them. Look, shearing the people. Look at every lift you do. Like a squat, a bench, a deadlift, a curl, a bent row, and overhead press. It's not your chest that's your sternum. When you pop your sternum up, it locks your lats and tight on the bottom. Like I was talking about. So now your body isn't safe for position at all times to lift weight. That's right. Right. Right. Right. Well, it's also a good metaphorical piece of advice for life. Because if you lift your sternum up, you tend to hold your head up high and you tend to walk straight. And I think that's also good. That helps with everything. Thank you. Yeah. Thanks, Ed Cohen. We appreciate you coming on. Thank you guys. You guys have a great fucking show. You make everybody feel relaxed. Very cool. Thanks, Ed. We appreciate you, man. Thanks, guys. Thanks, Ed. And remember, yes, you bet. Cheers. Ed Cohen, the greatest of all time. It's a awesome. Like, you know, I know to us like, you know, he's at he's at. But, you know, just trying to like make sure that I appreciate that we just had, you know, that guy on our little show. Yeah, we've had Jay on. We've had Dexteron. We've kind of been a little bit, you know, a mutant, you know, to or who, we haven't had Dexteron. We're trying to get Dexteron. I forgot. We've had Jay on with that bump step on. We've had Dana on. We've had Clarita on, you know, all these Olympia champions. We've read a lot of the best. And, um, a lot of the best. So that's what I'm saying. And so it's just cool to have like him on because it really branches out our show a little bit, you know, and I love the crossover. I love that he is a fan of bodybuilding. He's a fan. And you could hear him too. Like how passionate he was. So we asked, I asked him, you know, what do you think of bodybuilding today? And, you know, so many times you hear people say like, wow, you know, it's terrible now. We need to go. But he was like, oh, this is cool. And if people knew how hard these guys, like he really appreciates that, and you can see that like seeing him at the Olympia or at the Arnold just walking around. He's like having fun. You know, he's having a good time there. That was shows. So I love seeing that people who absolutely like their fans of the sport, you know? Yeah, I feel like I sometimes get frustrated with people who aren't able to appreciate the greatness of others that aren't in their realm. Right. Do you know what I mean? Like like if you introduce me to the greatest, who's the greatest tennis player on the planet right now? I don't know tennis, but maybe we'll just say Roger Federer. Like I know Roger Federer was at one point. So if you introduce me to him, I would be like, I would really take a minute to appreciate that there was like the greatest at the time or whatever, like a world champion. And some people don't care about that stuff. They're like, I don't care about tennis. Oh, fuck that guy. I don't care about tennis. Right. You know what I mean? That's where to attitude. I hate that fucking attitude. Sorry. That's my little rant. I like passion. If I say like, yeah, like if I say, hey, that's that's the greatest violin player in the world. Yeah. Think about the amount of work that person put into to become that guy. Yeah, I know. Whereas I like, I would want to go over and just meet the guy. Like you're the greatest in the world at what you do. That's a toss of it. So if it's just see how Ed had that attitude about bodybuilding, like that appreciation for Jay and Phil and that sort of stuff. I guess that's my point is like, you know, we all know guys that say, oh, I don't know, Carol, powerlifting. Yeah. Yeah. And then we know powerlifting. Is it going to fog bodybuilders fucking weirdos, right? Like don't care. But so I just, I really appreciate that there's like just, you know, uh, Ed has that view because I just says a lot about him, you know, as a champion of any sport. Well, I feel like if there were more powerlifting or like Ed, that there would be more bodybuilders that got it, you know what I mean? And they're probably more powerlifting or is that got it too. He kind of does bridge a gap there. I mean, yeah. I like I said, I'll have some, you know what, check this out as a matter of fact, because I didn't play that video all the way through. I'm just going to, I got to turn the sound down. Okay, sounds turn back then. We're going to get past the tigers here. But this is like 95. Look at his physique here. Oh, yeah, this is like before he passes out on a lift. But look at his physique here. Like, look, it's just how freaking thick he is. He doesn't look like the power lifters we see today. Look at that. Like that is, that is a bodybuilder if I've ever seen. John on it, I mean. Oh, yeah. I cut it off right before he passed out. But he told him I want to see a fog. I did, all that on a second. I'm going to bring, I'm going to bring it back then. We'll roll it down. I need to see this. All right. See this, take place. Let's see. This was that, this was at that quad's gym. Look at this machine. Where was this at? Scroll forward here. I guess it's a little bit further up. All right. There's good. You're going to go to 750. There you go. 250. Easy. They do cut the film right before it happens. But, and he's done. That's wild. But not for long. If you guys ever seen this, check this out. This isn't that other quad's gym. Yeah. I've never used this before with a headrest. It's a super old school bent row. Yeah, just to force you to bend over all the way. Yeah. You know? I mean, you know what I mean? Just to like, if your head's not touching, it means you're swinging. You know? And you can't like, like, arch back. You can't pull away. You have to pull the bar to you. So, I guess the trick is you're not, you don't want to put a bunch of weight on your forehead. You don't want to like drive or you're not. But you're just really keeping yourself down. Yeah. Yeah. There's some need equipment at quad's. Yeah, let's go. And that was the other quad. Okay. Yeah, that was the other quad. Yeah. So yeah, thanks guys. Is that it? We're good? That's it. We're just needin' for like, it's not on our episodes because there were way too many questions that I didn't want to waste a one hour episode on. Yeah. But I can't. Yeah. Just because like, the his changes with how he approached powerlifting. Like, it's funny to talk to a really humble person. Because he made it sound like, yeah, it's just how it is. I'm like, I know. That's what I was trying to do. First one to do it. Like, you were the first one to bring essentially bodybuilding into powerlifting. And then it worked and you were successful. Like, and it was just, it's just funny. Because he literally seemed like he was like, yeah, you know. He's just a really humble guy. And that's what I was trying to get a big deal. Do I mean like, I think I like that. Yeah. That guy and still just be like, yeah, yeah, I'm just anybody. You know, it's just what I do. Like, like the, like when I asked him, hey, when did you realize that you were like, really good at this? And he's like, oh, never really thought about it. I just wanted you to get stronger. I just kept trying to get stronger. Just kept setting world records. Yeah. Which also too, you know, like, that sort of like a good takeaway from the whole thing. There's a lot of people now. We talk about them. We deal with them all the time. They want to win the nationals and get their pro card. But they're at a level. They're not even at the first show yet. Yeah. So they're not, they're not in the moment. You know what I mean? They're focused on this intangible dream thing that is so far away. But Ed wasn't doing that. Ed just was thinking about today. Yeah. And he was stronger on my side raises and my front raises and my press. Yes. And tomorrow I'm working on my stiffs. And it was just in the moment focused on the work, not thinking about how he was getting so good and passing people. You just focusing on just getting better, putting in the work today. And that's it. Maybe you know, kind of what we always say, you know, try to be in the moment, focus on what you're doing. So we get to go guys. Yes, sir. Absolutely. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. There we go. I'm so proud of you. I'm so proud of you. I mean, he does it. You know, that's a good job. It's a very important part. And Scott will back me. It's very important that you like share. Subscribe, come, comment and ring the bell because it helps the show. It helps the show. And we appreciate you guys. And we appreciate all your comments. In fact, we read all your comments. I tried to get back to everybody, you know, and if we don't, if you guys have a question for us that we have an answer, then please comment it again. And we will be sure to get it into a following episode. And yeah, exactly exactly. And remember everybody, the Patreon for Scott, think big body building, network, help run the whole network. And then the mutant, I am mutant.com. Get your ISO surge, the best tasting way ISO out there. Get the all in. I do two thirds of a scoop and get on the gear. You're doing two thirds. Dusty 20. You're, two thirds. 20. Yeah. I'm going to have a 120. I've gone half halfway in. Yeah. I'm a half. I'm two thirds. Tegan that came into the show there for a minute. There she saw the scooper. She just took a full scoop and laughed. Whew. You're the gentleman. Yeah, but it's are just practically like their immune distance. She's 14. Can I even say that that's legally happening to my house? I don't know. I don't know. But we've had tigers on the show tonight. It's good. Yeah, you know, the drugs in my house with a teenager. It's fine. Fine. Okay. That's the reason tweakers over there. Okay. Do what I do. Let's do it. Thank you everyone. Remember it's just bodybuilding.

I think one thing that a lot of people don't do when they do barba rogers, trust their glutes and stuff to find the stability of the rival. Like you got to really sit back and squat. I'll tell people to bend their knees, you know, I'll tell a client, bend your knees to get into the row and the knees will bend straight into the quads going forward, you know. And it's like, no, I said bend your knees. I really meant squat down to the back so that the knees stay stationary. And that's the only time I've ever felt the row is really welcome. Hey, what's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear. Of course I'm here with Coach of Skip Hill in Andrew Berry. And we are joined by IFVPro Doug Fruce. All of our programming is brought to you by True Nutrition.com. You could use our code. Thank you for some additional savings. If you're in Canada, check out SupplementSource.ca for great deals. Thank you to everybody who's helping to support our programming on Patreon. It's up, Doug. Thanks for joining us, man. Thanks for having me. I'm excited. I've been thinking about this for a couple of months. This is good. We've talked about it a lot. So just to kind of give everybody a little bit of a background. In fact, I feel like, so the first time you and I recorded, I believe it was in, that was like the road to North Americans, I believe it was. And that would have been like 2019 if somewhere in there. That's right. Since then, you've turned pro and you've just been tearing it up, man. How many times have you been on stage on an IFVPro stage this year? Man, this year I got, I did three. So I turned pro June of 2021 and then I did Tampa and Dallas right away after that. And then that was, so that was 2021. And then 2022 I started in Boston, did Boston, New York, and then the Cal. Cool. Like a couple pictures here. I wanted to throw these up. This is when was this from? Is this Boston? That's Boston. Yeah, that's Boston. That's my best look for sure. What are you away here? Two 81 in Boston. That was our stage. It was really one. Yeah, that's crazy. He looked like a dude. He looked like a dude. He looked like a dude. Yeah. I think I had one. Yeah, that was, I really feel like we captured the conditioning a lot better. You know, I learned a lesson about competing too long. When I tried to do New York in Cal because I was just pretty tired, but you don't realize you're tired until it's over. Like you don't realize, man, I was too tired until the shows are done if you see the results. But yeah. Is this one? Find you kind of, I was going to say, you find you kind of get addicted to the look like when you're in shape. Mm. Oh, man. Yeah, I'm still on a. I can't. I can't. I'm still going to. Every time I see myself getting sucked in, like I better do more cardio. I should keep dieting. Yeah. That's it. So that's you on the right, right Doug. And then we got a guy we know really well here, Nate Spear in the middle there. So that's a cool shot of both of you guys. Mm-hmm. Oh, yeah. I love that shot. You know, and just even the third guy, which unfortunately, I don't even remember who he was, but all three of us just had that great detail in the back. And I think it just really embodies what a bodybuilding stage should have on it. I was really proud of that. Yeah. You know, that's technically proficient bodybuilders across the board. And that's, you know, that's all the things we can control. Like that. Everyone was in shape for that show. So had to be in fun to kind of be backstage and I mean, we got to go up close. It was like being at the Arnold. And that's what you know, that's what I can't think. And you know, and Bonnie, he was really wanted to stood out so much because you just don't, I think, the lot also because he's darker, but in person, you just, you just, there's a whole other level to the amount of muscle he has in the way it went. Yeah, there. That is just like, it was pretty wild. Yeah. So we're going to do something kind of different today, guys. I had put a call out to all of you to give us some videos to critique. So, you know, Doug is a personal trainer and you train, you train at the Mecca, right? You're over there at Gold's gym, right? Yes, sir. Yeah. Let's meet. You've been, you've been trained in there for a long time. You've done a lot of work, too, with guys like Charles Glass. How long did you work out with Charles Glass for? Oh, man. I mean, Charles is, we worked out, we worked out kind of sporadically together. Anybody knows Charles knows that his schedule is not set in stone. Nor is it easy to chase him down a lot of times. But he's really more of my mentor as a trainer. And we work really closely together pretty much every day. And then, you know, probably like, during my prep and stuff, once a week, I'll get to work out with him. But more than anything, we work pretty closely together, you know, as like colleagues. That's cool. That's cool. And really, I feel like anybody who's taken bodybuilding to the level that you have, you know, training is an art. And I know that training is an art to you. And we all spend so much frickin' time, you know, thinking about how what it's going to take to improve a body part. What it's going to take to grow a physique. And I think that, you know, I'll tell you when I was a kid, I used to think that a guy with weak legs just had poor genetics for legs. And since then, I've realized that, no, maybe the guy just didn't know how to train his legs properly. And there's so many facets to fixing that. I know we can't cover a lot of them here today. But I thought if we actually showed you some actual training, it would give us a chance to kind of not talk from him. We can have concrete conversations here versus just talking abstract, you know? Absolutely. Yeah. And I'm so true. You can say about genetics. Like, you know, I think like, when you say, well, the guy's legs are because of genetics, there's so many of the facets, even to that. Like, how genetically does he have the connection, you know, how was he born with his inherent connections to his hamps and he versus what he's learned. And then, whether the muscle develops right or what the imbalance is so he can put himself in the right position to contract the muscle credit, all so many different things. Yeah. You want for taste. Yeah. So, of course, too, I want to get everybody's input on all this stuff. I have a, you know, a wide variety of stuff here. I'm going to start with this guy. This is a Nick sent this in. So this is a dead stop barbell row. And this is what you're going to see if we can technically can get this work. And I'm going to turn the volume down. All right. So we should be able to talk over these two. And I can pause this stuff, you know, rewind it, whatever you guys want to see. We can adjust as we go here. Yeah. So, I know Nick is, he's actually a client of mine. And I asked him to send this over. I can think of a couple things. I would like to see because I've watched this before. But I really want to hear what you guys have to say about this. And back is something that is something that he's really need to work on for him in general. I would say the thing that we really need to bring up is his posterior chain back on down. Mm. I mean, really for me, I would say it looks pretty good. I would probably have him think more about keeping his hips back so that as he pulled up into his dies, it would sit more into his hip pocket. But otherwise, I mean, he's stable. He's not really rising up or leaning back or anything. It looks pretty good. But I do feel like with the head down and you see the hips come forward just a little bit as he finishes the row. He's not getting the full contraction in the lats. That's all that's doing. Really soon. How do you guys feel about HeadStop versus a regular barbell row? I prefer personally. You prefer to stop? Yeah, well, I don't do. When I do regular barbell rows, like I can go for one week, two weeks, but usually that third week when I've started to add a little bit more weight, I always fuck my back up. And then I'm not rowing for two, three, four, five weeks at that point. So I avoid regular bent over barbell rows. And I've tried to strengthen my abs. I've tried to do a lot of different things that outside of just getting stronger and doing barbell rows to try to accommodate to be able to do the exercise. It's just something I'm not bill for. Yeah, I think one thing that a lot of people don't do when they do barbell rows is trust their glutes enough to find a stability that they're right will. Like, you got to really sit back and squat. You know, I'll tell people to bend their knees. I'll tell a client, bend your knees to get into the row and the knees will bend straight into the quads going forward. And it's like, no, I said bend your knees. I really meant squat down to the back so that the knees stay stationary. And that's the only time I've ever felt the rows really well. Because I kind of have the same problem with straight legs, not trusting my posture, your chain for the stability. I would always feel it in my lower back before I'd feel it anywhere else. And so once I started... So another point about the glutes. Trust me, I don't understand your chain for squat. Go ahead, I'm talking over here. I said, no, I don't know, bro. I said, that's about it. Like once I found the stability in my posture, the chain could really sit there, then I was able to basically do the same thing the guys doing on the dead stop. Like put that pull into it without jerking it and really connect with the latch driving that into the, into the waist. Yeah. I had a training partner who would poke me in my glabes a chiropractor. I've talked about it before, but you've poked me in my glutes while we're doing bent over rows to make sure that my glutes were tightened. It was funny how many times they weren't. And as soon as I would tighten and keep my literally consciously, keep them tight, the large majority of the stress of my lower back was gone. Oh, I'm so... And I don't know if that's Andrew's situation, but it's something to consider because I know it was so dramatic for me. And I have a history of chronic lower back injuries. So when the glutes are such huge stabilizers and they help take so much work off the lower back, that it could be something. The only other thing I'd throw at your Androh, and this isn't me trying to train you or anything. But I know I've come to more oblique work in the last year and how much the oblique play into stability for exercises like this too. And I think what happens, and I like it side-tracked in this, but what happened with the oblique work years ago was it was kind of labeled this bad thing because it was going to give you rich, gespari, oblique because everybody was doing side bends with 100 pound dumbbells. But there's oblique work that can strengthen your oblique without making them ridiculously thick and thickening your waist that can really help with stability through the midsection. Yeah, I'd be absolutely willing to do more oblique work. It's something I've avoided for 15 years. Probably I haven't done it. I do direct ab work, but I don't think I've done oblique. I definitely do take the glutes seriously in terms of setting the exercise up properly, but you can train me anytime. Yeah, and that's what I mean. I didn't want to be like, oh, here. No, no, no, no, like dude, I invite all suggestions. Like, you know, anybody in this podcast, you know, I've, you know, I have no I respect you. Anybody watching on YouTube give answers to messages and comments. So I said I respect you three to give a place. There's a certain level that goes with the time and energy and years put in. And if you have thought something I have and I absolutely invited, you know, and I think you guys would do the same. Yeah, absolutely. Well, that's why I asked about the dud stop because I see the benefit from the lower back from a from a fatigue standpoint and everything else. I think with if there's not a lower back vulnerability or weakness, I would prefer not to have the dead stop. That's not saying that the dead stop is worthless. I'm saying that there's more lower back as an example. I think that something like barbell rosin and I want to hear what Doug says and what you guys think too. I'm not saying that dads aren't in direct lower back work isn't needed, but there's a lot of a recta work in just stabilizing T bar rows and barbell bent over rows. I think much more than people give credit for. There's a lot of stabilization going on there. So there's a lot of work there that can sometimes be missed. I think if you were to exclusively do dead stops or do things that were supported, like rowing that is supported to where you don't involve the directors and they can get into that, direct your tions, how everything comes together through the mid and lower part of the back and shoot me down if you guys disagree. I really agree 100% I think one thing that's important about just a standard basic compound movement is like the barbell row as opposed to like a dead stop is making your body move in unison as a unit really kind of fills in the gaps of like the back. Whereas if you want to do a dead stop road to me it's about the same as a chess supported and seal row or something like that where you're just taking the motion out and contracting the muscle which is great. It definitely is and there's definitely a spot for it. I use them a lot but I think like Skip said the stabilization is valuable in itself just the act of being capable of doing that and it'll make you stronger in all the other lifts if you're impervious to being off balance and you can really keep the weight where you want it while you're working. It's a more athletic way of doing it which I think is just important for overall avoiding the imbalances and stuff like that in the way we move genetically. It makes sense. Would you say Doug for a lot of the newer younger guys that are watching? Would you say that leaning into the big basic movements is what you would suggest to start to build that the foundation for guys that do want to put on a lot of muscle? I think so. I think that most of us probably started that way Ben Schwatt, Deadlift, Barbell Row and do all that stuff. I think there's a lot of value to that but of course that's where you get a bunch of dudes who do it wrong and to heavy and hurt themselves and really derail themselves. You got to do it correctly. You have to understand what you're asking your body to do and I also think that it's just Danesers to start with the attitude of move weight from point A to point B only. You have to really be a student of the game from the very beginning if you're going to start that way. But you're never going to develop that in eight just strength from sticking to machines for your first year of lifting either. You're not going to really derail yourself there too I think. It's given take. Higher a good trainer. You know I don't know. Do you guys meet them? Then you guys play football. I played one year of football. I played mostly basketball. I played basketball. Okay so for basketball did you play college at all or? No just high school. Okay well I guess my point was I find that at least at the college level you do a lot more of cleans. You do a lot more front squats. You do the back squat. Push presses. I feel like that gives you a really good base before you move into more bodybuilding style training. Like because you mentioned I think Dougie brought a point about I can't remember exactly how you ordered it. But basically like being in control of your body when you're kind of off balance. And I think something like a clean, a push press where you're actually using some force. It kind of helps. There's a carry over to the exercises where you are bracing yourself and you're not using dynamic force. I guess it's a little bit. I was very, very bad at all the cleans and the explosive lifting and so like that that was never something I was good at but I would agree with you that it does help with that and I feel like because I didn't have that base and purely I basically have been a pure bodybuilding lift or since I started lifting really. And so there are things I even missed out on and I don't have that explosivity that I think would help my numbers be higher and stuff like that. That's some of those guys have. All right. I'm going to move on here to another exercise. This is from Matt Blv. Which he's actually watching on the live stream right now. So let's see if I could find this one. Here he's got a dumbbell. Looks like incline chest press. He gets extra points for the shirt. Cool, sir. See from this angle, they look pretty tight. What do you got, Doug? I mean, is there? The only thing I would say, I see it a lot with my clients. One thing I've done with them a lot is I feel like his shoulders are moving too much and he hasn't retracted his scapula. Matt, you haven't retracted your scapula back all the way into the bench and so I don't feel as though the chest is getting all the activation it needs. The way I would coach it is I'd have you stay at the top of your rep and then see what I can do it without bending your arms, retract your scapula back almost as if you're pushing your chest through your biceps like that. And then as you press, imagine you're pressing your body down through the bench and that will keep those shoulders safe and immobile while you're pressing so the chest will get everything. That's why I said about that angle too. I wonder if maybe he took a video from the side because that's what I was talking up on too. I was like, maybe he's got another angle here. Yeah, that's interesting. I never heard that term before the way you suggested that. So you're contracting the scapula basically. You're pushing that. So how did you say that again, pushing your body through the bench? How did you say that? Yeah, you're pushing your body down backwards through the bench. I always heard, I heard this one thing once it was actually Phil Hurdon who said, you build more muscle moving your body through space than moving weight through space. And when he said that, I just, I don't know why I just always kind of thought, well if that's the case, and why don't you just imagine that the weight, the stationary, and moving your body around it. So that's, if those were just handles and you're doing your reverse push up and pushing your body back, then the chest will take all the activation the shoulders would stay back. So I mean, I do that with a lot of exercise. I'm just like, move your body around the weight. It's just a pull-up bar. It's just a pull-up bar. It's just doing a lot pulled up. And chest has to come up to the bar rather than all the other ways people move. I want to ask you to just make one of those people, most people associated with deadlift, right? Like don't pull the weight, drive your feet through the floor. You can't really hear that one, right? Yeah, yeah. Spread the floor apart. Oh, yeah, that's stuff. What were you going to say, skip? Going back to the professional muscle, it's funny that you made that reference because I haven't heard that in a long time, but he made that reference years ago. And immediately, but I mean, that's that brought back. That goes back a ways. I don't remember when it was that I heard that, but I heard it. I mean, I talked with Phil a couple of times and I sure, you know, just a well-known, it's where everybody, you know, we take from everybody. That's how we learn. That's how we make this sport better. I wanted to ask you guys, what would you say is your favorite or what do you feel is your your best muscle grower for chest? Man, if I could figure that out, I'd do a lot better on stage. I would probably say it's got to be inclined, just an inclined barbell or inclined smith machine is my go-to. I'll kind of go between the two depending on how strong I'm feeling for the day. But I'm still trying to figure out if you guys have any suggestions. Please pick a one. Yeah, no kid. I don't know if I can pick the best, but I will say that. I've said this before. I think the old school flat or not even flat, but dumbbell flies are underrated. And I'm happy to see them making a bit of a comeback in the last few years because I think that they're just underrated. They're not going to all of a sudden, you know, throw on slabs of meat, but I think that they should have never been tossed to the side like they were for quite a while. The thing about flies, I feel like my, I have my personal relationship with dumbbell flies has evolved so much more than one would expect from such a simple movement. Like it's, it looks so simple and you think it's so simple because it's not a press and it's your third motion of the day. So, you're probably not going to pay as much attention to a book. Boy, if you can retract your scapula and let the negative be slow as you take that dumbbell out and really feel the chest, I mean, it's one of the best connections I've ever had, but it sure wasn't that way when I first started. And I think for three to five years, I just moved dumbbells around and never felt the damn thing. You know, as I first started the game. How about you, Andrew? What's your favorite meat and potatoes chest movement? I'm trying to like, so I'm trying to separate what, which are the ones that I'm good at versus which one do I get up and be like, wow, that targeted all my chest fibers. The ones I'm good at, I, somewhat good. Inclined dumbbell press and inclined some myth press on a low angle. And I feel really good connected to those, but I got to say, we have this blue body master's machine. We lay on it. I'm trying to think, it's part of this, it's a chest press here and then on the other side, it's a shoulder press and it's a plate loaded. I don't know if you guys know what I'm talking about. I don't think we've ever seen that. Me either. I got a video on my Instagram. I'll send you guys later. Okay. But it's just the connection. So good because my elbows, I feel like I just drive them right in as I come up and I feel the pecs contract so nasty. You get done off of a set like that. And I just remember that in my rotation when I'm using it, it's always exercise. I get up and I'm like, just a smoked like all fibers. I feel them. It looks like a simple machine. Mike, you know, they have a straight deep line. Charles has a way of, I got to see if I can find a video. If not, I'll just make one tomorrow. And Charles has a way of adjusting your hips out a little bit and retracting your scapula so that you just do the decline like a flat. And I mean, it's one of the hardest positions I've ever gotten, you know, had to try to get into. But there's been like five or six times I've gotten in it. And like three sets of 12 and you're just finished your whole chest. That's like a great one. The way the way you put that about whether I'm good at it or I actually feel smoked, I'm going to have to think back and that was one. I am not good at it. But when you get it right, it's like, wow, I'll see what you find it because that one's really cool. And everybody's got a hammer straight deep line. Yeah, yeah. Most people. All right. I got it. Well, switch gears here again. Got a shoulder exercise. Oh, that's a day. Glateral raises. I'm going to turn this volume down here. If I can get to it, we're going to get demonetized here with a little blink 180 to where something in the background. Yeah. The shoulders are doing way too much. His scapules come away up and down too much. Yeah. Did you guys agree? Yeah, I agree with you. I feel like this exercise can be a real tough one for guys to figure out some guy. Not just guys for people to figure out that they don't, they don't get the connection right. I see people doing all sorts of stuff using their traps. You know, do you just not getting it? What can we tell him to help him get more of the activation where he wants it? The first thing I was saying, because I agree with you, I teach this a lot. And I spend a lot of my time holding my face, like, OK, how are we going to figure this out? What are we going to tell this guy to get him to get this in? And with him, the cool thing is he has his hands the way I like them. You know, you come down, you pour the drink out with your thumb, you know, and drop that driving with the elbow. But I would just tell him the drag is knuckles on the ground. So he stops thinking about picking it up. So he just tell him to drag your knuckles on the ground and throw those dumbbells to the side. Thank you. That's where I was going to go. That's good. It's not lifting up. Yes, getting them to throwing them to this. I will stand next to a client say, just hit me with the dumbbell. Just exactly exactly exactly exactly exactly exactly exactly. That the it's stay wide. It's stay wide. Instead of looking at it as I'm trying to get him up as high as I can. I think it's a lot of the trap. And again, the scapula, the position of the scapula and that digs in more. I think to the side, though, I'm glad you made that point. I was waiting. I was waiting because I was going to see if you agreed with that or not. I had not heard that idea until just recently and I've used it so many times since it was a client of my shout out to Andrea Watson. She had said she tries to touch each side of the room, basically. Yeah, tries to go out versus bring it up. And it is so frustrating when you can do it. You know, it's like, I do this all the time. I know how this exercise works, but to try to fix it on somebody else. And I feel like this exercise can be a game changer for me. At least delts. I feel like there are a small muscle group. And when I figured stuff out with them, they started growing like really fast. And if you can take an exercise that isn't working for you and change it, that muscle is going to, you know, you could get some really like almost like no be like games if you start activating it, right, you know. I tell people all the time because I think the same thing as you Scott that they're just, they're such an interesting muscle group. And they really are much more technical than people realize and I tell them, I tell people a lot. I say, shoulders are like the laziest little kid that wants all the credit. They want to help everybody, but everything, nothing on their own. Yeah. You know, they want to get on everybody's project. But when you ask them to do some all by themselves, they, they refuse. They don't like it. I just got one from you, Andrew. What's this, this video. You just something it's the, it's the machine I was referring to. The body master power systems. Okay. That looks good. So, in my head, I was picturing the paramount that is the isselateral with the swivel handles. But when you said body mass holding on the very moment. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's a little bit of the other side. There's a shoulder press. It's a very similar plate loaded machine. I look heavy. I bet you that's heavy as hell. I'll wait right there on you. Yeah, I feel like I have six and a half plates there. This might be probably the most I've done on it though, Doug. It's probably like I did it again. This is probably what last year, middle of prayer, for some point. I did it yesterday and I got five plates for 11 reps. I think here I did like six and a half for like nine or something. Which is probably the heaviest I've ever gone on. Just out of safety. You know, I mean, you can't really fit much more weight on it either. Yeah, sometimes we'll band it too. Sometimes we'll band it, which makes it eat like the contraction is out of this world. Like I can't even describe three plates on this for like sets of 10. You just, you, you, it's the kind of pump that you want when you're going out on stage. Put it that way. Huh. Right on this. So you want? Hey, Doug, I heard that a lot of the machines have changed. Like they've got a bunch of new stuff over there at Gold's Venice now. What, what, what are the pieces that you really like there right now? Um, well, I like most of the old ones still. There's, there's a, there's a really, we have a really nice, um, gosh, who makes it. Now I think, I think it's, it's just this old black incline press plate loaded in the back. I think it's in a carry and it's someone like that and it's just a humblur. Man, you put the plates on the back and it's an incline press that is so heavy. That one's good. So it's not, you know, I've actually, I carry in. I just want to be clear. I think it's like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. But honestly, I mean, they put a whole bunch of new gym 80 stuff in, because I don't know if you know the gym, the goal to go bought by R.S.G. who owns Mick Fit, which are all these German gyms, like I bought all these gyms and he owns Jim 80, which is this other equipment brand. And then they're really pushing it, but it's not all that great. You know, it's just really big and hyper engineered. And like they have these chest presses that have a lever that will drop 30 per like there's plate loaded, but then there's a lever and it'll slide back, so it's 30% less weight. And it's supposed to be able to do that on your own in the exercise, no, you cannot I promise, but. Oh, they think you can. But really, you know, all the old stuff is still there. There's the red, you guys have all been to gold, yeah, you know, a couple times. Yeah. The red hammer strength chest press that's dip on the other side. Okay, yeah. Yeah, it's like a seesaw. That was pretty sweet. But man, I'm like a lie, I was just, I was just at Beves twice over the spring. And Beves really shows you how bad gold has got. Huh, thank you. What about what I'm wearing? I always telling you guys, I'm always telling you guys, you gotta go to the East Coast Jams and Beves is one of the most talented people I'm telling you. I'm telling you, right? They have everything. That's how we know what it's like. I'll go spend 10 weeks in the fall in New England so I can train it those gyms. Wait, but the dog, the other one you want to go to is just about an hour and a half away from there is Martin Nare's gym. Oh, I know about that gym. I've never been. Okay. Yeah, the super gym. Oh, it's the pose in room. Oh, it's the pose in room. I haven't been with the Raymond training back there and all that stuff all the way. Yeah, yeah, exactly. All right, I think I have another barbell row. I'll throw this one up for Kyle. What do you spend a squat? Yeah, I didn't get any leg. I asked these guys. I was like, hey guys, can you send me some leg stuff? But skipping Andrew didn't have time to grab anything. Well, you ordered us to do it? Oh, I asked if you. Not you. Like if you had any clients or anybody who could throw something over last minute. I'm sorry, yeah. Let's see. It was last minute. You know, I like that quite. I like that just fine. I would tell him to bend his knees and squat down a little bit so he'd stop elevating as much and find a little bit more athletic comfort. But I like the way that road looks. I mean, he's getting it in the back pretty good. And I like that he pushes his ass back on his negative. So that's where you kind of take that balance. If you push your ass back and sit down like that. Mm. Yeah, you don't get that problem. See, if I don't love Barbaro. A little bit of a knife. You barbros. Is that like someone starts out like this and by the eighth rep they're like this. Yeah. Yeah. 15. That's the only problem I have with with Barbaro exercises like this personally. Yep. So that was the first time. I think there goes in part two with pushing, you know, or constantly pushing, looking for the progression. And I think it's a way to go up a minute to fatigue factor. I don't even think sometimes you notice it until you go back and see it. Absolutely. But I know, I don't know how many times I've said that every rep you're coming up a little bit higher. And to make the comparison, even like a long pulley row, if it's too heavy, then a lot of time, you'll end up, you know, or your client will be ending up leaning back against it or away from it, doing the same thing. Yeah, I wish we did have some leg stuff. But since we don't, I'd still love to hear some thoughts. Doug, what are the things you see people doing wrong a lot of the times? Things that we need to improve in general on say a squat movement? Hmm. Well, I think a squat movement is people just, people just really try to outrun their stability. And they try to outrun their capabilities, as far as staying in the correct form to execute it all the way. And then they just, you wrapped up in how much you're squatting and you'll either forget about depth or you'll forget about your hip placement. And that's just, I mean, it's on a case by case basis. I feel like people, you know, a squat is unique to every person. And it's not like there's a textbook squat form. I feel like everybody, there's certain fundamentals, but everybody has a different squat based on their femer length, their hip tightness, their back, their spine length, stuff like that. So, but I feel like people outrun it all the time. And so they'll try to squat too much in their hips, so their knees will cave in as they come up. And they don't take the time to strengthen their glutes on the outside to fix that. And their hip flexors and stuff like that. It's just an understanding of what's actually going on. It's not just squatting down and coming up. What are your muscles actually doing to allow you to do that? Yeah. I'd go on an alignment. I'll do it. I kind of make like little self promotion here for you, Doug, that if anybody was just happening to be traveling out to LA, could they hire you to say, hey, dude, I'm going to be in town for a week. Can I book a workout with you because I want to learn how to squat proper? Oh man, it happens all the time. I'd love to. I feel like I love to teach people to squat. I got a pretty good system of starting with a box squat and moving the way up. But it happens a lot. I get guys that I'm in town for the week and we come train and stuff like that. I've often thought about doing like, there's a couple Airbnb people, people that have little places in Venice and just set up a whole pack. Just like, come on, let's give you a place, show you the gym, introduce you to Charles, take your round seal, the famous people that run around and have a good time. That'd be like a meathead's dream and you could seriously pick up so much. Yeah. I do. I feel like the number one thing that holds a lot of people back including it, held meatback and I still recognize that there's still so much more to learn is our ability to perform an exercise properly. I could put you on the greatest diet in the world, right? But if you don't know how to train to get the activation we want, you're not going to be able to reach the results that you could. Well, that's the thing I think people don't, whether we're talking about the bodybuilders or not because I think there's plenty of competitors and athletes that don't have the level of muscle, mind muscle connection and activation that I think is necessary. But then even further, if you go to the layperson, it's just in their training. People don't even really understand the depth to which you can really take this and the amount of different feelings and activations and methods you can use. I mean, it's just, it's such a beautiful thing that people don't even really capitalize on at all. I feel like, well, of us do because we sit around and study at all the time, but, you know, it's, it's amazing. One of the most fascinating things is you know, like you're teaching somebody something like a lateral raise. And you don't even, it doesn't even look differently as far as, you know, from the outside eye by you tell them, no, think throw it away. Don't pick it up. It changes it completely. Yeah. Even though it's exactly the same. You know, it's, it's so wild to me. And there, every exercise has that. I mean, no, press through the ball of your feet, not your heel. Change this squat or leg press altogether, 100%. You know, all this, that was so cool. All right, I had a couple more. I think they're both back. So we got a lot of back stuff here. Now, this is a cable pull over, I believe. Oh, this is good one. Yeah. This is another one that I feel like I teach so much. And there's so many different ways that people do it, so many different things that people get into. It'll a lot of tricep activation. Yeah. It'll a lot of, a lot of, well, tricep mainly. And then just you miss the lats altogether. You miss what's supposed to happen because they're just pulling that weight down. And also the motion there. You know, how we, generally what I'll say is you're either cross country skiing or your donkey Kong running forward and jumping over a wall. You're seeing that. You're pushing down as you spread your chest apart and squeeze the back together. Just as if you were going to propel yourself forward. And you know, that's like everybody wants to run away from it. Like he's doing, he's pulling down, but he's running away from it. You know, pull your body into it. Like you're jumping over a fence or something, you know. And that, that one's good. I also don't like people to do it with such a narrow bar. I'd rather a rope or a white bar, so you can feel your scapulous clothes a little bit more around at the back side. Okay. It's a little unstable too in the sense that it's, if you don't have very good coordination or you've just started using this exercise, you're going to have a hard time getting everything even and getting that feel. I think even left to right, you know, through your scapula and through the muscles that you're actually trying to hit. Personally, I would, and this isn't taking a shot at the guy doing it. He may not have access to a bunch of equipment, but I would trade that bitch out for a good pullover machine or a dumbbell pullover in a heartbeat. You know, a dumbbell pullover time. You pullover machine will be lovely. But I see, I feel like the pullover machine hits the lats a little differently. Like the pullover machine will hit the lats lower and build that thickness down low. But I think the stretch here, I don't get on a pullover machine. But I think that also might be some of my just my dimensions being hard to fit into them a lot of the time. But yeah, the rest of us fit into it pullover machine quite easily. Well, when it goes literally hits my lats and stops. It's not of this one, it sucks. We've asked them to change the pads so many times they won't. I miss, you know, like the old hammer strength run with the plates behind it. Oh, yeah. I've got to say. Yeah. And hammer strength also makes a sure one that doesn't have a stop. So if you don't have a stop to bring the lever up, then you're not going to get enough stretch in the bottom position so that we don't want to pull the shoulders up. Just put it back. Yeah. We always got to have a partner that like pushes it for you to get your arms, but yeah, that's a week. We got that one. Yeah. All right. We got one more here. This is a dumbbell row. There's a more back. Get the volume. See if I can get this. There we go. And we can really. It is good that there's a lot of these back exercises because I've set it before. And I still believe that back training is the most complex and the most most grossly performed in accurately muscle group training that you're trying to get it out. You know what I mean? It's a lot of time. I think that incredibly. Yeah. Yeah. Most yeah, a lot of times, you know, I think that until you actually either really get into it or you get a trainer that knows what they're doing, you don't even really train back the way a bodybuilder should train back, especially. I mean, I agree with you 100%. You know, like there's so much arm and so much forearm and so much jerking and so much muscleing it up that, you know, I would bet a lot of guys go five years without a good actual lap pump. Yeah, I could see that. So what do you think about the bench set up first of all? What do you think about bent that, you know, using that as your support dug? I feel like that would get in my way. I wouldn't want anything in between my legs like that. I would turn around. I usually when I do it, I just put my hand on the top rack or the dumbbell. Okay. And the dumbbell rack behind him. I just do it off the rack. I like to do my dumbbell rows where you go. I square my feet and put most of the weight on my hand so that I'm really resting forward. And then I try to get a full 90 degree angle and just pull it like I'm holding a pistol. That's what I tell. I pull it like you're holding a pistol and that's the best way I can get a good stretch. And I try as hard as I can to imagine that I'm pulling my body straight down to the floor. That's one of the other things because everybody wants to lean back and really wrench it. And I mean, this is to this is supposed to stretch your lap all the way to the bottom and then pull the entire slab your whole back, the whole right side of your back up and through. So I like to try to stay really stationary and almost 90 degree angle. Which I haven't seen many people do it that way, but it's just I feel it so good on it. It's like just it just builds the thickness right through the middle of the back all the way down through the lap. If I do it like that as opposed to standing up like he is. I just yeah. And also if you stagger your feet like that, you're always going to twist a little bit and get some oblique in there. Which I also try to avoid. I try to keep my body completely still and pull around it. So I wondered if he was opening up that in and I don't know because I don't know what his thought process is. But I wondered if he was opening up that wide so that he didn't twist because he isn't I don't see much twist. He is pulling pretty straight relative to what I see a lot of in the gym. So I wonder if that's why he is. Is this a one of yours? Scott or something? Yeah, this is the same guy as before who was doing the horrible. The Dutch. He might be why he's going because I agree the stance is very why. But if it's keeping him from twisting, at least that would be logical and there would be the thought process would be this is why I'm doing it versus what we normally see which is like you say Doug that twist and that allows so much more weight to be pulled and I don't think it's a very efficient movement. Yeah, I agree. When I do it and we did I get a lot of these in my prep for for for New York to really try to thicken up my back and what I'll do is I'll rotate my hand so my thumb is pointed in worded 90 degrees and I'm more of this this way and I'm supposed to this way. And then I'll pull out first and then back. So it's almost like a swinging out and squeezing while keeping my body completely still and that allowed me to really move the entire hemisphere of my body and squeeze that spinal record together. That's just the way I've done them mostly. I feel like if I skip that. I won't like 110 instead of the 150 or somebody that can't go so as heavy. Yeah, I feel like when you skip the if you skip the out that you're talking about it gets it's a lot easier. You know what I'm saying if you just come straight up, it's the movement isn't nearly as hard and if something isn't as hard I have to ask myself what what what am I missing. You know what I mean? One other part of my body and my using besides the target muscle if it's not as difficult than the target muscle. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Andrew you've got a really extreme foot positioning with this. I think you and I are similar except for then you put your foot forward. What I think, okay, so like the traditional stance of your poem to your right arm is to have your left foot forward and your right hand back, right foot back, right? That's why I think when you go to the gym you see most people do it and I think you're going to make the exercise harder on your lap. The more you bring that right foot up in line with the left foot and even forward more so than the left foot. The reason being is that I don't see you guys can see me but you're cutting off the angle that your hips can rotate and therefore you're cutting off the angle that your torso can rotate. Okay. So I think and when you do that you're going to keep it more in the target tissue. And here's a case in point because we and I think you just mentioned a minute goes Scott when you feel like the exercise isn't as harder on the target tissue that it should be why is that. Yeah. And I think a real prime example, if I wanted to do my heaviest dumbbell, I would use my right foot back, my left foot forward and pull with the right arm to be able to cheat a little bit and get that towards the rotation. If I wanted to and if I cut that, if I do it the other way that I'm talking about that weight gets cut by 30 to 50 percent, 30 to 40 percent to get this to actually effectively and I'll feel it light up the ladder a lot more. Yeah. And I'll definitely say I would definitely chase that second method of doing it every time. You know, I'll take that over moving the weight every time. I think when you're younger you just want to see the weight go up and you want to see the weight that you're moving, you know, you want to feel like you're accomplishing something. And then you get to a certain point where you care less about that number that everyone sees you lifting and you care more about how you're internally feeling it, how it's hitting that target tissue and thus the progress that you're getting out of it. Which is the fun. I recommend that Doug was making earlier and I think it's really important because when people first start out, it is. It's a movement from A to B. You're moving away from A to B. You're benching, you're squatting. I think the art really comes into like you're saying, Andrew, it's the feel. When you're squatting, knowing what your hips are doing, knowing what everything feels like not just well, shit that I feel that in my quads and, you know, moving the point, the weight from point A to point B, which a lot of times and I don't know if you guys would agree, but I almost look at it as almost like a, if you can move a hundred, if you can move a weight for 10 reps at 100% of your strength. The training that you probably should be doing should be in that 80 to 90% instead of that hundred percent because it's about a feel. It's how everything, I call it the green room because that's a surfer reference for catching the perfect weight. It's everything feel fluid. It's everything feeling smooth and like it's a machine and the first rep looks like the fifth looks like the tenth, it might be a little slower, but it looks exactly the same and it feels the same. And I think that's one of the skills of training that people forget to think about, like, yeah, even though we're training to build muscle, you're also, you have to practice the skill of squatting and training and that's really where the skill comes in is being able to maintain your composure, under that pressure, and under that fatigue and still execute properly. It's something that only comes over time and being comfortable. You're not going to, you have to develop that comfort. I've often wondered if that's not a bigger part of, you know, like one's genetic advantage over somebody else is like, do some people inherently not have to struggle with activating their quads on a squat and then so they never really think about what's happening in their squat because well it works perfectly and my legs grow and so I feel good. And then, you know, there's guys like the rest of us that have to man squatting really sucked until I figured out how to put the foot placement and still like are there some people that just, they just know that inherently and that's just how they already move and then the rest of us have to learn it or not, I've often wondered like, it's at it. That seems to be more of a genetic advantage than actually having a better ability to grow tissue. Yeah, it's understanding the way to move without developing impingements, developing imbalances, you know, stuff like that. That's athleticism at it's hard really. Yeah, it really is. And that makes sense and there are going to be those people, you know, the people that just naturally are more coordinated, the people that just that naturally gravitate toward exercise or sports while somebody else, you know, gravitates towards art or, you know, science. I can see that for sure. I like that, man. That's all we got though here. That was awesome. That was fun. That was fun. That was really cool. There was a very different thing what we normally do too. I mean, I really appreciate you taking the time to hang out with those Doug. Thanks for having me on guys. I really appreciate it. Good. Yeah. Talking about training. So. Yeah. I need to do it again. I need to do it again. All right. We will rock the world guys. So if people want to get a whole you Doug, what's the best way to to find you on social media and anything else? It's grandma's good at Douglas Frusche. My email is pretty easy to remember. It's Doug Frusche at Gmail. My TikTok probably not so much. I'm just getting used to it. Every time you open that app, it like screams at you. Yeah. So I don't know what it's about. And it's very much. But Instagram is good and emails good always like like skip said I love talking about training and I just love seeing people get better. So if I can help in any way, let me know. Hell yeah. And I want to know if one of our listeners like heads out to California, they hired Doug, I want to see some video of that. So get some pictures. That would be cool. Yeah. It would be fun. Yeah. Make that happen. Sure. Yeah. Make that happen. No, what I just realized. What's that? I want to Instagram. Did you get a different Instagram or some point, Doug? I didn't follow you. What? Really? You said that, but I was like, oh, yeah, I feel like a fucking dick. Honestly. I don't know. Go, man. For a little while, I had somebody managing my Instagram and they kept doing that. They kept going through like deleting followers that you didn't know. That's got to be what it was because I know what all the people said that had to do since 2018 national. So okay. All right. I'm not offended. Don't worry, man. We all good. All right. Cool. Guys, if you want to reach out to a skipper and your for coaching team, skip.com or body, bury.com, hit me up, McNally diets at gmail.com and check out our great sponsors, Trinutrition.com. Use our code, think and supplement source.ca for you guys in Canada. Thanks again, Doug. We appreciate it. Rock the roll.

What's up guys, on this episode of Blood Sweat and Gear I'm hanging out with Contest Prep Coaches, Skip Hill and Nelson Jones. We've got a couple topics for the day. We are going to discuss handling your training during a Contest Prep or a cut and we're going to discuss muscle imbalances. After that we've got a bunch of questions written in from you guys, our listeners and viewers and we're going to kick the show off talking about a great body builder we recently lost and he cam in. If you guys enjoy the show, if you're entertained, if you learned something, do me a favor. Hit the like button and if you haven't subscribed, we have a sub-robotty building podcast coming out each week. We love to have you along for all of them. Alright guys, let's get to the show. I've never said this before, so for the people on YouTube, this show comes out every other week. So it's going to be out Friday's, every other week, opposite of muscle mines. I put the pieces together a thousand times in my head, but I've never said that. So I think that'll help people understand the formula. We have a bunch of listener questions today, like a plethora of a ton. We're going to get to those. We had a couple topics we were going to talk about, but first I wanted to address the fact that we lost a great body builder this week, Andy Hammond passed away. And it's interesting because I've heard some of the younger newer guys that are like, I didn't really know who Andy Hammond was. He was something else. You guys both knew him, right? Skip. Well, yeah, I've been in Colorado. I mean, he lived in Colorado Springs or Black Forest or Southside Colorado Springs. He was a very lively, unique personality. And he did a lot for the, I don't want to say for the industry. He did a lot related to the industry. He did a lot for kids. He did a lot of charitable stuff. A lot as much as a family guy. I don't, I didn't see unless he was traveling. I didn't seem pictures of him without either his wife or his family. He'd been with his wife for things in high school. And they were very tight. And they would do a lot of the, it's funny because people may not even know Andy Hammond, but they may know the guy, you know, the guy with the blonde, spiked hair who did was Mr. Incredible. Yeah. Because he would go through these elaborate paint setups and it looked pretty bad to me. But he would involve his kids and his family in that sometimes too, when they could travel. They were just very, very tight as funny because my wife followed Andy quite a bit. She was just always so taken by the fact that he was such a, so devoted to his family and that sort of thing. It's just, it's really sad. Anytime anyone passes, it's sad. It's fact that it was so abrupt and that sort of thing is just, it's just horrible. I feel, you know, situations like this, I, people always say, you know, you know, recipes, Andy and stuff and everybody, you know, says different things and they mean well, I'm the intention is there, but I just feel horrible for his wife and for his family because they were so close and at 55, you know, it's, man, that's just really, really young. Let me tell you now that I'm getting closer to that when you're 25, you're like, oh, yeah, he was really old. He should have been, you know, with all that stuff by now, but it comes up fast. So, you know, I feel like I can, I can see it on the horizon. It's a little, it's a ways off for me, but it's, it's still, it's out there. I'll tell you what, I have never heard anybody say anything bad about Andy Hammond outside of one thing. People thought he used fake plates. Yeah, you're that. But I'll tell you what, VJ, my partner for him, bodybuilding nurse radio. So he used to live in Iowa, Andy and his family did. So VJ met him back in like 2005. VJ was like, and his 20s, early 20s, he was a natural competitor. And so he saw Andy Hammond. He said, like, this dude looks so big. You know, he was just, he was a really big dude. And I think that that kind of gets underplayed sometimes because he's, like, such a fun personality. He was a big dude and he was strong. So the video I saw them calling out, he was benching like four or five plates. And he was making it look like it was no deal. VJ said he would watch him walk in the gym, put four plates on the bar and just pump him out for 10, 15 reps like it was a warm up. Just out the gate, man. Yeah. And I don't want to forget to or leave out. He was a top collegiate wrestler. Yeah. Yeah. In Iowa too. I think I don't want to be wrong, but I was state or something. One of the bigger division on schools there, but he, he's got a very athletic background. I think in fact, before he, he was a phys head teacher, I believe, before he retired from that and would travel more with bodybuilding and that sort of thing. I don't want to get off on tangents, but the fact that he was being, the only, it's funny that you say that about the place is the only thing that I've ever heard negative. And it was funny because power lifters are the ones that got on him. And there's nothing worse to a power lifter than a bodybuilder who's in great shape and can put up big numbers. And they wanted to try to strip the, you know, the strength thing, because they said it was too, I think they said it was using fake plates. I think this would it came down to it. It's funny because it came up on intense muscle. Yeah. And I pissed off a lot of power lifters by blowing them off. And I mean, these were, you know, well, no, and they ended up, they ended up leaving intense muscle and never came. I only wanted more good friends in this day. But it was because I had to apologize because I, I told those power lifters, I might get basically it's Andy Hammond. And I live close enough to him. I know what this guy can do. And you guys are just fucking wrong. That's a bottom line. And you're going to negotiate. You represent the younger demographic on our show. Maybe I'm kind of old now. It's a joke. To me, you're the youngsters. So you knew about Andy, right? Yeah. I'm, I'm, I'm at a dime, I was both long time ago. Okay. Yep. And I mean, obviously, I started reading the magazines. And I was like, I'm a little bit more in a week. Yeah. So I mean, like, he was there than, and that was probably he was more prominent than he was, you know, in like 2016 or something. But he spent way too much time with me. He didn't talk to you very well. Like, and I was, obviously, I was very annoying a long time ago. I just asked too many questions. Not considered a people in mind. He didn't even like that. Just a lot. And it's like, oh, I waited for four people. I should be able to stand here for 45 minutes. Yeah. So, and of course, yeah, it's like talking me for a long time. Very, very considerate. You know what? It's funny you say that. It's like, I think he won his card as a super heavy, right? I would think so because he was a really tall. So I mean, it's like, the guy was really big. And so now, it's a little more popular to see people throwing, like, actually Benching by plates. Yeah. You see, Ian does it. But Ian can do it. I mean, well, I said two people, but I'm pretty sure we saw Luke put up like four and a half on incline. Yeah. So there's, it's a lot more of like a common thing. He was just big and freaking strong a little while ago. You know, when it wasn't as common. But I mean, it's the same thing like we've talked about this before. It's like how four plate Ben over rose wasn't a thing 10 years ago where it's everybody doing it. And now an Instagram, maybe because you just know with the possibility, you see all these people doing it. Yeah. And he was just, he was a freak strong guy, but it's funny more than that. Yeah. He was a really good guy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That doesn't even recognize for sure. Yeah. All right, guys. So we've got a couple topics here. And then we are going to get into a bunch of listener questions. We're probably going to keep this one a little bit short. I'm still recovering. But we're going to get in what we can here. So our topics, the first thing we're going to discuss was transitioning into a contest how does your training change? And then from there, we were going to go into some talk about muscle imbalances. Skip may or may not have had any issue. We're going to talk a little bit about that and talk about what I don't even know. Honestly, I don't even know. We're going to get to it though. We're going to win it. That's what we're going to do. So Nelson, do you have people change things up when they go into a contest prep? Almost never. It's never. It's never. Yeah. I mean, it's the same cliche. You dance with the one that brought you. I don't want to over simplify it. But, you know, Dante's words have run in a lot of people's heads and years for a long time in that sense. You do have to take into consideration recovery. So when it comes to volume and high intensity techniques and things like that, you have to be careful because anytime you're reducing, caloric intake or increasing, caloric output, you know, it's going to tap in or potentially tap in the recovery. So that has to be taken in. But as far as training heavy or training the same style, the same exercise, the things like that, I don't think a whole lot should be changing. It was funny because back in the 80s and I'm dating myself with this, but it was very popular and kind of accepted that, you know, when you're in prep, you're doing higher reps and going to the end of the off season, you're doing lower reps. And it then went to, you know, that silly you shouldn't do that. But there does come a point I think in prep where you do have to understand your limitations physically. And you may have to increase your rep ranges. It may not be as black and white as well. You're in prep, you need high reps and when you're not, you need lower reps. You do have to listen to your body tune. There's a lot of variables that you've got to take into consideration. Otherwise, if you push all the way through, I mean at some point your strength isn't typically going to be what it was in the off season. If you're a good prep guy, you're most of your clients are going to hold a lot of that strength until it gets closer to the show. And there's other factors too, whether you're on during the off season, you know, or if you're gas to the gills when you're, you know, during prep, there are other factors. But there are some things that have to be tweaked. You're very Nelson. Yeah, I definitely agree with that. I think it's a really, I mean, and you were kind of alluding to it. The only thing that needs to really be considered assuming we're covering everything is good is as your, the joint integrity starts to be a little wobbly. You know, you're getting really lean and all of sudden those, whatever, seven plate hacksquads start like sharing your knee. It's like maybe you need to start just pushing the intensity with, I mean, let's say you're doing six, maybe six reps sets aren't the way to go anymore. Maybe you want to pull it back. You're still going to failure with, you know, two less plates, but you're pushing it to 20 reps. I don't think there's anything wrong. I mean, personally, I prefer it. I think it's better to push sets for 20 to 30 when you're doing leg press hacksquads, things like that. I think it just, it just murders your legs. And I'm not saying that there's anything wrong with eight, but unlike a leg press, if you're doing six reps or eight reps on a leg press, that is heavy and free. Right. I don't know. For a lot of most people's needs do they just came to handle it. And of course, there's some like iron freaks, it doesn't matter what you do. Single is on a leg press. You really wanted to. There's going to be some point in your evolution where you're going to have to rethink your training because you're not 22 anymore. And I feel like for a lot of us, as we get really lean, that shines through even more. It's like, oh, okay. Well, not only am I like feeling kind of wobbly, but I can feel my joints really hard every time I do a rep. Absolutely. Maybe. I'm not destroying my body and I can't walk next week as far as from actual joint kind of pain. I mean, by the time you get to the show, you don't want to be not being able to train legs because joint hurts so bad. So it's like, what's better, you know, is it better to keep it the exact same because, you know, we're supposed to. And I do agree with keep it the exact same. Keep it the exact same as long as you possibly can. Right. I don't know. I guess there is a point where for me, let's say I'm only doing two sets of eight. I might have to start and it could be through prep, but you're pushing that same weight up to 12 and you're working it all the way to 20. So you are using the same weight throughout all the prep and you just got stronger whole way. How do you get to go? Because you're growing the whole time. And I don't want anybody who's listening to think, well, now wait a minute. Nelson and skip just contradicted the dance with the one who brought you. Just to clarify, and you make a good point. You stay with it as long as you can while you're listening to your body and be smart about it. The other thing is though, too, you know, when you mentioned 20 and 30 reps, why it's, I think there's a lot of people out there who think that that may not be an offseason type. That's something that I would do in the offseason because the shock technique. So if you think, well, that's not an offseason. Of course it is. Things would be thrown in an offseason for shock value. And I say, shock shock on the muscle is stimulus that hasn't seen before. There's where you get adaptation. So that would be done and can be done during prep to save the joints like you're talking about. And essentially, not put yourself in a vulnerable position or when it comes to risk of injury. I mean, it's not saving central nervous system. It's going to be very, very hard. It's just an I agree. I do, we don't make our sets every single week. Yeah. I think, I mean, I think they're super valuable. But yeah, I 100% agree with what you said. And just, I think I don't change the volume or really very much. The only thing is once I get to a certain point, I am now, I kind of check myself, whereas before I'm like, rapid tighter, you know? Yeah. You hate it too. When you're training partners are there, and especially they're an offseason, which is good for you, for the push. But if they're like, suck it up, you did seven plates last week. And that you know your needs hurting. You know, like, something's wrong. And you just like, ah, there's always like the, be a man. You look like a guy. There's a topic. There's a good topic right there. The pros and cons of training by yourself or with the training partner. You have to knock that one or write that one down, Scott. Do that on a future show. I will. That is a good one. I have a thought, because when you guys are talking about this, I've had perhaps where I've remained fairly strong, you know, as strong as you can expect to be. And then I've had a couple of perhaps, specifically the two times that I push for like insane, leanness. My second show, I pushed for insane, leanness. And then again, in 2015, I just pushed as far as I could as hard as I could. I didn't care how much I lost in the process. And I could have competed like low one 90s. And I ended up competing the day I stepped on stage, carb-dop. I was 181. So it was like, it was dramatic. And I remember being in the gym, just like, hating every minute of training because it just wasn't fun anymore. I could get a pump. But I like my, I was so weak. And it was like that for a long period of time. And when I know it's just because I was just so beat down, have you guys ever, I'm sure you have. But like how bad has it gotten for each of you, like on a bad prep, like a prep where you got weak? Well, I think anytime you're in prep, you're going to have prep, let's put it this way. If you prep long enough, you're going to have props that you're in the green room. And I had one last year. And everything was clicking, everything was beautiful, everything was going as good as this can be expected and sometimes better. Then other times you're going to fight and really fight and suffer and feel tortured. And sometimes the end result isn't any different. And it's kind of funny because you would think that I know in your situation that specific situation you're talking about, Scott, yes, you ended up leaner than you said. You admitted you didn't care what the weight was. You just wanted to get as lean as you could. But most props, I think, really in the end, as long as you know how to, you know, and it's that last week, making sure that you peak because sometimes if you run yourself into the ground and you have hard time filling out and picking and hand up with a little bit of an overdiet or what it calls stringy, stringy type of look. But yeah, you have to sign. I mean, I can't remember the last time I'm sure it's there, but I'm all to can't even remember what I had for breakfast. But yeah, I'm sure that those are there where you drove myself in the ground. And 16 asked for that because it's that more, you know, and Nelson touched on it earlier, you know, even though we prep people and we have all this experience and stuff when it comes to our training, we will sometimes do the things that we don't say. Yeah, it's not a do as I say or it is. It does I say not as I do, not a do as I say because I do the same shit. And I will come out of it with tendonitis or a sprain LCL and have no one to blame. Myself, I would go so far as I say this. Look at the end up with an injury. If you look inside yourself deep and hard enough in your encycl, no, you'll find out you fucked up somewhere and you didn't see a sign. Sure, you did something you shouldn't have. Every I take issue when people say, well, I just came out of the blue. It probably didn't. It came out of the blue to you because you didn't know how to read the sign. It was something different. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. It's funny actually. I remember there was a podcast. Joe Rogan had Matthew Walker on and he's like a sleep scientist. And then he had was talking about some studies with athletes and looking across the board almost all of the athletes who had injuries did it when they were sleeping six hours or less. That's a good one. And so it's like there's like there's something like obviously with recovery and it could it could be like your tires, you're not doing this intelligently or you know, things like that. But I guess there's a lot that can go into it. But that's something to kind of think about in prep. Really me and his sleep. I thought two examples from prep and one, I will say this. This is the worst I ever looked. So I know that this supplement is very like, oh, it's the Holy Grail. I think my Nauri knew what I'm talking about. The worst I ever looked was doing DMP on a prep. That is the weakest I've ever been. Sure. My entire life. It was terrible. I looked awful. But did you die? No, I didn't die. Okay. But did you die? That's the end question. I didn't die. I didn't die. It was a bite. God, I didn't look good. And then last year, this like touches on what, skip said about like how long are you really going? So last year I started prep in February and my show was supposed to be in June. So I, my strength was killer. I was going to go whole time. And that was one of the smoothest, easiest, everything was clicking prep. Now during that time, June and Ash no was canceled. That's what I was going to do. And then two other shows are canceled. So I pulled back and then I was going to do a show in November. I only took like four weeks of eating a little higher than I went right back in. So that's February. And then I got around like October and like this ain't it. And it's like, and that was, if I were really reflecting back, I had known that for six weeks, eight weeks. Yeah, yeah. But I'm like maybe it will fix itself. Maybe it will fix itself. Like something. And it's just like getting weaker every week, drained, just looks soft. And just like things are getting worse and blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah tighten up and it won't matter. No. So there's, there's something to be said, like, and if it was a client who was trying to like, oh, let me just turn this around a couple of weeks and then I'll do it in November. No, are you retarded? Is this is freaking, it's a year, but I'm pretty sure. Yeah. Hydration. Hydration is another one I want to throw in really quick because I know we got it. We got to jump topics here. Hydration I think is something like, you know, you get people because I get people that I work with who will drink a consistent amount of fluid constantly, right? And I say, well, are you hydrated? And they like they say, yeah, you know, I drink this much every day. But that changes as you get leaner, how much water you need. And I think that for me, I see just a huge difference in my strength based on how hydrated my muscle is. So I actually started using an electrolyte supplement. And I find it helps me a lot. It's more, I used to just do like just the straight sodium, you know, and be like, oh, get the sodium in your good, but with a balanced electrolyte, I feel like I'm very consistent. And then when, you know, in a paint place where I wouldn't necessarily have as much endurance, I have better endurance because I have just better overall muscle hydration. I think that that's a big factor in that strength and being able to, you know, continue pushing hard for longer. I'm not saying you could do that for nine months, dieting from. And I know what you mean, man. I dieted my last shows where I started February, went through November. And yeah, I was pretty darn weak by the end of that. I held it for a while, but you know, yeah. I was really good at that injury last year. It had my show been when it was supposed to be. I mean, it really is that. And it's funny because as experienced as we are, we know the time frame that we have. And when that gets changed and it gets changed quite a bit, that doesn't happen a lot. So yeah, it's not something where as well, versed, we're not as experienced with such a radical change. Or when you don't even know it's going to happen. I got my shows were pushed, but I wasn't sure exactly how far. So those are things that, you know, we still fall back on our experience. But at the same time, I just know I would not have come out of that with an injury. I can't say I wouldn't have. I might have blown that hip, getting into my car. I'm not sure, but it probably wouldn't have been in the gym. Yeah. But also, I'm sure you would agree that even though, I mean, if someone wrote that down on paper for you, logically, you might have thought differently than it happened to you. Sure, where it's like, oh, it's like, oh, this much time. Maybe I should probably take some time off this person. This person should like, look, like, let's do something here instead of like, I'm going to make it. Right. Now. Alright. So next topic, we're going to discuss before we got to our listener questions is in balances. I'm not a bunch of words that I'm not sure we're going with this. But I feel like Skip has a different opinion than Nelson does. Well, it came up on the last podcast with Nelson was on the show. Yeah. And the points that Nelson made, I agreed with, but I was going to take it further, but we were kind of long on the topic anyway. And I think most of the listeners, I assume that most of the listeners knew how I thought about him balance. It's not talked about him before. So the question came up on the advice is page on Facebook. And it was about how to train those in balances and how to bring him up. And Nelson makes a good point. And I agree with this from a neurological standpoint on paper, the studies show that the weaker side would not being trained in correctness if I'm wrong. If this is not what you said, but the weaker side would not being trained. If you train the strong side, there is the neurological component that will help that when you come back off the injury, that weak side will essentially catch up quicker. Am I? Is that no breaks down less? It breaks down less is what it was. Break down less. Okay. Okay. Fair enough. Now, where I disagree is when you, okay, I'm going to do it this way. Okay, you have your your weak side and you have your strong side. Okay. It made break down less, but my concern is when you come back, you have, I don't think you should train at all. Like you shouldn't train the strong side. So I'm going to back up my explanation for that. Because you're stronger once I can weaker on the other. When you come back, the way that most people train, I'm going to use the bench presses an example. If you train or even a dumbbell press, once you get to failure, you get close to failure. Typically, what happens is the form on the weak side is going to fail and you're going to get shitty reps and the lats are going to take over the tries and the shoulders are going to take over. You're going to get a couple more reps. So what you're having a situation like that is the strong side will continue to get stronger and I want to get into the there we go. Because there's a delay. The strong side will get stronger and the weak side will get stronger as well, but they still stay in balanced much longer. If you train the weak side and it would focus on the weak side, I call it training the weak side, you're training both sides left and right at the same time. But what you're doing is as soon as the weak side fails, that sets done. And you have to be able to know when your form starts to falter whether you're, and I'm using again, the bench press is an example. If you have to tuck your elbow slightly or something to that effect to change the mechanics, you should not go further than that. Because then at that point you're training the weak side and stopping it failure, the demand on the weak side is more than the demand on the strong side even with the same weight. So then it closes that gap quicker because the strong side doesn't continue to progress. Like it would if there were a couple more reps or that side was taking the failure. Basically, which is doing is you take the one side, the weak side to failure and you're going to sense under training the strong side. So if I'm, if I'm not mistaken, it may have been that I misunderstood what you said because I agree that neurologically it can help to keep the weak side from degrading this matter or attributes much. Okay. So that might, okay, then it's not, then we don't disagree. That's not fun. I don't disagree with you're saying either necessarily what I would think is you want. Or if I were personally to do this, let's say I tore my tricep. What I would probably be doing is I would probably train the non-tored side just because you're putting blood in it's, allegedly it's going to help the other side. And when I start resuming training, I would do it. You're saying absolutely because I would never keep pushing reps when this one's acting wonky. You know, one side is, because you're an experienced person. Training, you've been training for a long time. If you take a client who's relatively new and they have an injury, they may not know that. I mean, we can go in and see how people bent sometimes. You can tell it's like, oh my god, your left side is so much weaker. Like, holy shit, if you would train it the right way, it wouldn't be a balance like that. I think I do think you make a very important point, which is you can only push to failure of this side that is weaker. Once you go further than that, you're doing yourself more of a disservice. Sure. How would it be? Yeah. Oh, you just don't get away from that imbalance that you just all will always have that imbalance. Even maybe more so than that, you're probably just looking for another injury. Oh, absolutely. The vulnerability is it's already weak and you're just pushing past where that can even go. That's how it's going to tear again, you know? Yeah. Yeah. All right. We'll be moving on to some questions then. And then disagree to that. That was so not fun. I know. I bet it's a funny one when you had told me about the topic that we were talking earlier. I thought you were talking to Scott that he was the one who had said something that you just agree with. That's why I kind of legit did register. I'm like, oh, that was a good one. I totally forgot about the topic. We got a bunch of questions here, guys. And I saw Martin Fitzwater's with us. Nelson's. How was he doing, man? What's he going on? Well, tell us why you will I find these questions. And I crack a beer. Just kidding. It's a monster. Let's just point. Martin is getting ready for the Tampa Pro. So he's, I think he's currently training at Flex's gym. He just had a hernia thing didn't he? Didn't he hernia? Yeah, he had two surgeries, I think. If I'm not a surgeon. Yeah, both of them. So he had hernia and gyna surgery. He got them done. February 9th, I believe. So we're a little over a month and a few weeks off. And he started training. I think it was two weeks ago. And he wasn't supposed to train before then. So we can call him out in front of all these people. He was, he was not supposed to be training. And I'm like, we can do cardio. And he's like, yeah, I definitely want to do cardio. I want to do cardio. So I get some blood movement. And cardio turns into arms. He's like, I'm barely moving. It's like, I can hear it too. Not working that hard. And that's how you are. Instagram. I'm doing my, yeah, not. Not bracing with my core. It's like upper body legs, which is walking. You know? Yeah. So yeah. So it's already training arms. I'm barely doing anything. And then you know, then it started getting like just dip in other body parts. And there was like a delt day. And it's funny. He was training with with Brett for the day. Oh, no, he can't do that. He would not recover. You would do a thing, right? And it's very first delt day that he did with them. He like did side laterals that were heavier than Brett. Yeah, it sounds about right. And that's why I say they can't be training with Brett. Martin, you're watching. Pull out in front of every. I know. So now, now I guess where to the point is now he can kind of train. OK. I say use your best judgment. But it's not my judgment. It's his judgment. It is a little questionable. So a non-guys. Thanks for watching another podcast here. I think Big Body Building Media. And thank you to our great sponsor, True Nutrition.com for making this all possible. Truenutrition.com is owned by Dante Trudeau, the creator of DC training. You wanted to create a supplement company that offered high quality third-party test and supplements at a fair price. High quality protein powders, just about every type you could think of. Huge variety of flavors, plus health and performance supplements. Check them out, Truenutrition.com. And hey, if you use our code, advices, you directly support our podcasting. Thanks, guys. Let's get back to the program. Oh, man. All right, listen. I've got a question here. I've been wanting to answer this one since I saw it come up from Rob Taylor. He asks, cold chills in hour after training could it be dehydration, low blood sugar, essential nervous system rebooting. Any ads that he's on 700 tests in 380 and P.P. Do you guys have any thoughts on this one? Yeah, that's nothing to do with his gear. Do you know, no. No. I mean, I think it's a good idea that we all laughed with the listeners. I think that's a good idea. That only works. But it's good to know. You never know, man. Sometimes. Yeah, better having more information than last. I completely agree. I saw this question earlier. Here's what I'm thinking. Yeah. And there's more to it because I'd have a couple questions. So hopefully if he's listening as I ramble, he can respond to my question. I'm going with low blood sugar. If he has postwork out nutrition that is very quick and very fast in about an hour, if his training is very demanding. And especially if it's demanding and he's in a restricted clore at state, you can go to a high-pil, pretty quick after postwork out nutrition and primarily if it's liquid. I know I battle with a hard core in its amount of 10 minutes. If I will start sweating that I'm going so high-pil. Sometimes not even deficit. But the timing I wonder because if he did have or does have liquid or very fast postwork out nutrition, that hour could get him. I mean, chills, when he hit into chills and especially if it's consistent, I would say that there's probably did he say he was sweating it off, but I mean chills would. He said that's where I would hold chills. I had something most a little bit different because I think you guys are right. There could be a hypothin. I had this happen to me in the past. And it was like what I was training with Shelby, I know that I was training now in hindsight. I know that I was training and doing more sets than I should have. And it worked really well for him. I've talked about this. I think for me, I was would have been better out. He's training some monster. He did didn't need. I was like, I empty can click. It's only been like two minutes. You know, I'm not, I know I'm old, 51 now. And I have an eaten all day that I've had two monsters. I don't see the problem here. And I just killed it. But you did. I didn't mean it. I dropped you. That was like good. Little energy. I wonder if it is something to do with essential nervous system. If it's not hypoglycemia, because I think that that would be yeah. That would be like the first thing. But I remember getting, and you know where it would be. Like the first thing would happen is it would be like my nose would get really cold. Like if you take in a histamine, you know how your nose can get really cold. And then I'd start feeling it over my skin. Sometimes it would be even while training. I'd start to get this even using like highly brain cyclic dextrin. And situations, I know that it wasn't my blood sugar. It's situations where I'd be eating. And I'd get kind of like just like the best way I could describe it is. I felt like I just got out of a car wreck when I'd finish those workouts. The way your whole body, I've done that in leg day where you get out of that workout. I don't do it anymore. You feel like you just got hit by a car. Not exaggerating. The way you feel shaking up. Just everything is just shook. I think that I had been triggering some central nervous system stuff. Some central nervous system responses. I don't know, I don't know. But I've seen things with people who have, oh gosh, my brains getting really foggy all of a sudden. I'm not 100% by the way. I'm like almost there, but I'm not good enough to be on a podcast. I should just turn it over to you guys. And I'll think about that one. Because I'm wondering what you mean specifically with central nervous system. Because I'm thinking, okay, if you break it down, that he's cold to the he said chills, right? Yeah. Okay. So circulation went from being really good while he was training. So assuming that it was really good while he was training. And you're going to be warm and blood flow is going to be revoked. The beans are going to be poppip. You're then all of a sudden at least surface skin. I wonder where he's cold. He's just cold from head to toe. Yeah. Or if there are just extremities or what. But then your circulation, then what happened if that's the case, there would be some kind of a circulation issue. In that so. So the word I was trying to think of is autoimmune. And that you can trigger autoimmune stuff. Like I've known people, in fact, Victoria's one of those people, where when she trains really hard by the end of her workout, she's ice cold. She'll be sweating, but she's really. Ice cold. Yeah. And it's an autoimmune trigger that happened. So I just wonder, I think that you guys are probably right. The first thing that I jumped to is low blood sugar. But then I also wonder too if it could be, if not that, then some type of an autoimmune response. It's not a common thing. Even like the extreme would be like, renards, where your skin turns blue, even. That would be like if you kept going, you'd lose that circulation. And there's like a type of renards that can get so bad that you can basically get like lose circulation and get like the equivalent of frostbite on your skin. Like you can lose limbs and stuff like that. Well, you're out of my wheelhouse. I've never heard of renards before. I mean, this is now like, this is now the new threshold for auto training hard. Yeah. Up to you, ever, Nards? I think the next step after renards is probably regular mortise. I don't want to. I don't want to. I want to, you know. All right, I'm just going to randomly grab the next one here. Brad Smith asks, best appetite suppressants, when deep in contest prep, the urge to binge is constant. Any ideas to help. Thanks, guys. Cool. I'll tell you what. Mine'll be quick. I'll go first because mine'll be quick. I am going, this is going to sound very arrogant. And I don't mean it that way. I have, am I, my brain is fucked up. It's wired differently. I don't emotionally eat and never have. Food to me, though, it can taste good. And I'm kind of a foodie. I don't get so, it's uncommon for me to get craved. Some have to be really fucked up and weird. Like, I have missed three meals, even deep in a prep. I don't have problems with appetite. Maybe it's because I've done it for so long. I thought about it if I don't know, because I used to have it when I was younger. But I don't have to deal with any type of appetite suppressants. I don't know if it's just locked in my brain because I don't. I'm not sure. So I've got to hand it off to you guys because I don't have anything. Well, let me ask you a question before I go. Has it always been this way? Like, because I found that as I've gotten older, my appetite wins. So were you hungry or were you were 20? Oh, you know question. Yeah, no question. Yeah, for sure. Now, there's also a component too. And it's not always. So I don't want to step anybody's toes here. Again, it can be taken the wrong way. You should, and I tell this to my clients all the time. If you're dining, you're getting really lean. And Shelby says all the time too. It's gonna get nasty. You're gonna have hunger. I always want to step into someone else's body or brain to feel their hunger and just to see so that I can go, come on, you're being a pussy. That's just not even that. Or if I step into their body and go, holy shit, this is what hunger feels like. Holy crap, I've never. So a lot of times, if your diet is dead on, even though you're getting really, really lean, if it's dead on, you're not gonna be in my opinion, you're not gonna be as hungry as ravenous or have those cravings. As if sometimes if you go into an over-dited mode, then in your just ravenous at 15 weeks out, I'm gonna think and damn, I don't know if you should be that hungry that far out. But I do think it's relative. I think that experience and dieting longer, I think the brain at some point just flips a switch and it's just accepted. It's not even something that you think about. But again, I'm talking about me because I've never felt it. I've never been able to feel it from what it feels like for somebody else. I agree with you, I think, to some degree and kind of just like know that nothing will fix hunger. Right, you're gonna be hungry. So there is a degree of you gotta suck it up. But there are some taking the edge off. Yeah, but to take the edge off, there are some things. Right, obviously some people may like Adderall. If you are four weeks out, you have a half hour Adderall. Well, maybe it's time to pop it because, you know, I would probably not do that at 11pm, but if you're about to die after meal one, then maybe it's time. Now, I'm not a, I do not approve of this or anything. Okay. Whatever you want to say. What? A nicotine gum. Nicotine helps really for it. I do absolutely absolutely. A nicotine guy. You're like, I'm fine. I don't need anything here. Pop and nicotine your mouth. I don't know what you guys are. Maybe I drew a lot of Copenhagen. So that's it. Maybe they have found that. That will certainly do it. So nicotine will, it will help with metabolism, hunger and estrogen. Now, the thing about nicotine though is a little bit, helps with estrogen. A lot of it raises estrogen. Really? I didn't know that. Yeah, so it's kind of like coffee, a little bit of coffee. It's like, keep your regular. No problem. You crush coffee all day. You might be in the early mess though. I'm going to be honest. I'm going to be completely transparent. I just learned something that I did not know. I did not know that there was a connection between estrogen and nicotine. I didn't know that either. This was actually, I mean, I can't take right over this. This was a map order teaching. So no kidding. Me and him were talking about this in April of 2019. I mean, it was right for you, Bass. I still have the emails. This is going on back and forth about. It was actually for me. How significantly? How significantly is that? Just backing down estrogen? Yeah. I mean, I just wondered if he had any numbers or anything that was wrong. What we're talking about like, probably as much as a mass drawn, not like significant. Okay. But I'm not a matter. But it's right. It was something like, if your estrogen's crushed and you're taking this on top, like, oh, maybe you should kind of like, one of those things. It'd be mindful. Be mindful that it could have an effect. But it does help. It's not something like, I'm taking a gram test. I'm taking a, I freaking nicotine gum. I'm just wondering if I'm going to get bitched hits from chewing Copenhagen. Oh, I mean, it's like, I think, I mean, I might be wrong. But powder Copenhagen isn't like four or six milligrams. I'll be right back. A can is 88 milligrams of nicotine. Holy crap. Okay. That's a whole can. So it's funny because I was just having a conversation with a client today about this. My friend, Candle, he, he said that he had been dipping since he was 16. He did it till he was 22. And we had like figured out that he had, he had spent, it was like, he's at least a can of day, usually two. I'm like, so I minimum you spent $6,100 between this time, this time, one just dip. Because we were all talking about, it's funny. We were talking about using this as an appetite suppression on the way back from legs over there. I have an issue with it though, just because people, the cost to benefit is can be great for someone that would potentially start using more developed habits. They went into a bodybuilding show and they came out, you know, addicted to technology. I agree. And this is why like, I mean, I don't recommend it. I'll tell you this, I was pretty scared or at least timid about it because when we were talking about it, I'm like, I don't know. I don't know if, if I'm someone who's going to have trouble with it, or what the case may be. So I remember I only bought like a very small whatever box of it. I'm like, this might be something I just need to throw it. So I don't spend a lot of money. It is very difficult. It's very difficult. Well, as soon as I had the first piece, I knew it wouldn't be a problem for me. Because it takes to so bad. It became one of those things. Like, it literally became something I dreaded. And I was so thankful and like, oh, God, I don't want to chew this awful gum anymore. Because I hated it. So the gum is our voice. Oh, it's not good. So if, let me see, like, if it's something you enjoy, like the buzz too much or anything. And I don't know, I think anyone should walk into this with caution. This, just like anything else. Like, there, you don't want to be addicted to something for bodybuilding. That's silly. Yeah. We have enough problems as it is. But we have enough visions. Yeah. Yeah. But I don't know. For me, he was one of those things. Like, I was tuning two, two milligrams pieces a day. And I'm not just told me, I know. Matt told me, it's like Matt said, get the two milligrams and do three a day. Max, three is your max period in the story. It's like we treat it like a, like if I only let you have two sodas. It's like, you don't go over. It doesn't matter if you want it or not because that's the rule is a prep, right? Yeah. So wait up for yourself, guys. You know, if you, if you have that personality, then like don't even touch it. You got anything else you want to have the list? I wish I were going to do that. Oh, well, I guess like a fiber supplement can help. Yeah. If you're, you know, because just fiber in general helps. Like I think people overdo it with the vegetables way too often. And I, hey, I don't say that as critical. I've, I've overdone the vegetables. And you just, you don't look good. You don't feel good. You know, you walk around with, you're eating a bag of broccoli every meal. Well, you look like garbage. You just have to smell like urps too. You smell pretty thick. I'm not gonna get it. Gas coming out. He's not good. No one wants to be around you and you look bad. Right. But I think that that can help. And I know they self, like supplements that will like, it has fiber in it. And you can eat it and then drink water and feel a bit stomach. Let me, at that point, come on. Are you doing this little better or not? Right. You have to accept that there's just some of them. I mean, all fat burners have like some sort of appetite's a present quality. Yeah, I was gonna add aphidrin to the list. Even a small amount of aphidrin can help. In fact, I've even used it. When I've dosed to clan, I keep the dose pretty low. I mean, even like I've gotten fat loss at 20 micrograms. Well, so I've actually combined that with a low dose of aphidrin. And I've even taken it at like, 2010 to 12.5 milligrams. Just enough and it helps me personally to get my appetite down. And I've seen the same thing happen for other people. So I'm gonna throw that one out there. I'd agree on that fiber. I'm gonna go back to something you were initially saying Nelson. And that was the fact that you're not gonna ever get rid of it. You have to accept it and you were saying that too, skip. It's like you have to accept it at the end of the day. You're not putting as much into your body as you were before. You're literally creating a hole that you're now trying to fill with something. And I found myself buying more stuff on Amazon or going to the store, shopping, buying shit that I didn't really need. Just to have stuff to make me feel good to the fact that I wasn't like filling my stomach with the things I wanted to eat. So I think that at the end of the day, there's a level of acceptance that you just have to have. Otherwise, your prep is gonna suck or you're diet. I'm care if you're prep and are not. Maybe you're just trying to get in a better shape for the summer. It is not gonna be a fun experience if you're constantly trying to run from hunger. Like skip, you accept it, man. And if you can switch your brain around and be like, hey, this hunger means that I'm getting where I want to be. You're gonna be in a much better place, you know? Well, it can be distracting. You get to the point where it's distracting you from not only just your simple tasks and everything up at your job and your career and things like that too. Because that's all you think about if you feel good stuff. Yeah. All right. What else do we have here? Um... Shh. Okay. Here's an old guy. Ross. Over 60, the body's falling apart. Um, back L5S1, both rotator cuffs. Torin, uh, has had surgeries for his, looks like Naxi 7. Man, he's been through the ringer. Um, went out for a month with muscle atrophy, uh, of the side tricep, um, and L5S1. Let's see, let's see. What to do? I'm depressed. What can a person take or do for this? Three surgeries, three years in a row, three years of bedlock Ross. First thing I would wonder is how many years he's been training, um, because your chronological age, you know, if he's been training since he's been in his teens or if he's been training seven years, that could make a difference. But I would say to first look at your training, I'm not saying that he doesn't have issues where at 61, his body is, you know, um, doesn't have limitations or anything else. But if he has a history of training, his body would be, I would think would be relatively, I don't want to say adapted, but, but it wouldn't be this training hard wouldn't be the shock to the system. I would look at the training and I would see if it's too heavy, I would check mechanics. I would check, like we were talking about earlier, hydration, all the things that can lead to, you know, is he, did he have signs prior to any of these injuries and he just pushed through anyway, ignored the signs, things like that? Um, and I'm not saying that he may not be following a part and that they're just out of the blue and the body is pretty much, you know, the body is thrown at their hands and went, yeah, you're too fucking old. But at 51, I would like to think that that's not the case because I certainly wouldn't want to be in that condition in only 10 years. I wonder how he's training too, you know, absolutely. Is he following everything we talk about it? Think big and advice is and progressive overload and doing one set, you know, to maximum failure. I feel like at 63, I might not want to do that anymore, you know? Right. What do you think, Nelson? Oh, I mean, I'm certainly not an authority on, you know, whether or not this guy, especially if he's been training 30, 40 years, you know, what you shouldn't be doing, but if he's still trying to like do DC right now, maybe maybe don't, man, you know, and that's, it's not to say anyone can't or just say, it just, I mean, what happened is they kind of said, Dante made all these freaks and then John Meadows fixed them, you know? So it was kind of like one of those things where it's like, eventually your body gets too old to do all this and it might not be your fault and might be your body's fault or it could be that maybe you're just missing something, you know? Maybe you are you don't sleep well, you're under recover, you're, you're not eating as much as you think or I mean, it could be so many things. I can't pretend to know, but yeah. Nervishes, I know he mentioned nervous issues, nervous issues, well, I don't want to, I don't want to I'll stay in my wheelhouse. I still think that there are probably, if he looks back and he really digs in deep, there are probably signs leading up to every single one of those injuries. Now, if he's saying, you know, I can't go balls out like I did 20 years ago while welcome to the club. I mean, that's just natural and you don't have to be 60 to have that happen. You can be, you know, as you get into your 30s, you're going to have problems and you're going to start to see things that you didn't see in your 20s. We're made a rubber one where when we got here, I see something you guys do a shit night cringe and think, God, if that was me, I'd blow a disc or my meat cap if you're across the fucking gym. All right. I bought this one second. I said to say this because this is the most embarrassing thing happened to me and so long. So I'm 30 and the other day, my daughter, who's four, I was doing like some, we're just playing in the living room and she jumped over like, you know, whatever, from one market to another and we do have some things and trying to like see how far should I get job. Yeah. And I was going to impress her and I'm like stand back and so I did a jump. It might have been five or six feet. It wasn't, I'm not like a long grumper. But anyway, I just, I did, and as soon as I landed, my knees hurt so bad. That's never happened before. It was just, don't have kids. Kids ruin everything. They end up warming. I cost money. Two legs. It's like, it's funny. That's another thing. It's like all those people who get so worried about not being able to have children on cycle. You're like, well, didn't do anything. There's a good topic. We could talk about that as well. Oh yeah, for sure. Yeah, we're coming up with a lot of topics starting the show. All right. Thoughts on a blend of no-aster compounds as pre-workout and specific, lagging muscle enhancement that include no-aster bulb nod. No-aster nanderlone and Diana lone. No, Diana lone. No-aster. Okay. My first reaction is, I hate no-estored gear. That's just me. Yeah, because I like blood levels to be stable and maintained in that sort of thing. I don't, this is just me. And I do, I'll admit that I am not well versed and I don't have a ton of experience with no-estored gear. But the reason I don't have that experience is because I know a little bit about them in the sense that I, I'm not sure, a power lifter or you're doing something that you need to, your testosterone levels to fly through the roof for about two hours. I don't know that that is, because anytime your test levels go up ridiculously like that, you have to battle with, you know, estrogen rebound and stuff like that, trying to control other hormones. So I, unless you have an aggression issue or your power lifting or something, I don't see that there's going to be as much of a benefit to no-estored gear. Unless you want to pin it five times a day and even then, I, uh, somebody take it for me. Have you guys ever had bold and known ACE? No, but I've heard about my stories about it. Okay, it's the worst thing I've ever taken in my life. Yeah, I've never seen ACE. I don't want to see what it, no-estored bulls. I know that. Like ACE, I remember I got two shots and that was it. And I, and I, I, whatever, I bought four, I throw all the way. It's garbage. I mean, it's like, and this is, you know, very good, you know, it's like, I tried different things with one and up, but, yeah, it's just, it's terrible. It's like that, it's not meant to be like that, you know? And so they made it, like a freak compound and you can make it into a no-estored, but it's awful. Well, I don't know why I do it to yourself. I mean, I've, I've used, I do like, during some periods to use something like an oral or, um, heck, I've done methyl-train a couple times and I've implemented that, but, honestly, it's like the, the pre-workout shots, not really into them. And what about localize growth? Because he was asking about localize growth. I mean, I'm of the belief that you're just not going to do that anyway with an AAS. So, well, what's it about past the liver anyway? So, it's leaving that spot. So unless, right, what I could see is, um, there could be benefit from having some pain in that spot, better possible condition. Yeah, so I mean, just javish off an insulin needle and go to the gym. It's where it's like, you know, you're, you're not even putting anything in, but I think, Dreno would do the same thing. I'm pretty sure it might be a little cheaper. Don't do that. For anybody who's listening to, don't do that. I don't want to get sued. Um, that's, that's, that's, that's the, that's the next step. It's typos and then it's Dreno. Exactly. The young kids did the typos, the older hardcore guys we do Dreno. Yeah. I think there's more of a group of people that are coming around to the no-asters. And it's, I would say, it's, it's with the heavy heavy training that we've shifted towards. I've heard more and more guys that are, you know, commenting with questions on the shows. And I think it's, it's because people are trying to push more weight in the gym, more progressive overload, and they're looking for a way to get stronger in thus grow more. You know what I mean? I think that's where they're coming from. I know that Jordan Peters is a big fan of that stuff and he'll cycle it in for like two weeks at a time or whatever. Yeah. You know, just trying to break through plattoes and strength. I would say the vast majority of people aren't the vast majority of pros that I know that's not what they've done. So I'll throw that out there. And as far as the muscle growth thing goes, I don't, I don't see that either. You know, I mean, I don't, I don't see localized muscle growth. I think there's something on paper that attest noaster can cause muscle growth. So I won't be surprised if there's some small amount. But I could, I feel like the, the cons would weigh out way the pros. Whenever I hear about like noester or orals and thinking about actual muscle or cruel in the pre-workout kind of setting, yeah. I mean, the reason you take something there is for blood levels to spike right now. So in my mind, I always think you're getting, like, because people will say, like, oh, you're not going to gain muscle. It's like, yeah, but the reason you're doing it is to, let's say you do it for four weeks. It's to have your lifts up for four weeks and your lifts being up and being able to kind of keep it going after you pull it. That's really, it's like the cumulative effect of having the strength. That's really what it is. It's not so much like a this equals more muscle. But I don't, I guess I'm officially old school if I just would prefer to take anageol than like a noester drug. But they're all, let me hear so bad. Yeah, no shit. Let me spin off on what Leo just posted because I think that what he just his statement that he just, I read it down here, which is kind of cool that we can see those comments. He makes a good point. What do you say that I want to, he was saying that pre-workout that they're, I'm paraphrasing, but that there is a benefit because a lot of us will use arrows and again, in paraphrasing, you know, or else prior to as well. I don't disagree that there are people that are back up cool. There is a benefit much like Nelson was saying with, you know, increasing the blood levels during training. My thing is, is I think it's splitting hairs. And I'm going to go, I'm going to step on some toes, I think, with this because I want to be very careful how I say this because I certainly don't want to offend Jordan or anybody else because Jordan knows his shit. There's no question there. And him thinking outside of the box, I think is a great thing. But a lot of people are latching on to, I think. Again, this is just my opinion. A lot of people are latching on to things now like, um, no, Esther gear, much like they, they grasp things like men and things to come around. It's almost like they're saying, well, the EQs and the trends that that's just, we've been doing that's boring. There has to be other things that work. I'm not against that that thinking, that philosophy. But they're almost grasping. It's like it's something new. It's something that hasn't been thought of or we need to try. I think, again, though, that it's splitting hairs. I even when I take an oral pre workout and I run it for four weeks, even if it's strong and it's, you know, anodroller, whatever. I'm not going to be able to quantify. I can't go back and quantify and go right. Oh man, four weeks because I could not take it prior to the workout and if I'm on anodroller, I'm going to see an increase in strength anyway. I don't know, maybe there's other things that can't, you can't quantify like aggression that you may want, you may be able to train a little bit harder. But I just don't think again coming back to cost a bit of it. I just don't see. There are some things that we do on paper because they add up and they make sense. It's, I think it's very similar to GH timing. I don't even know and a lot of top guys have said this, when we've had conversations in the past, back in the message board days, we don't even know or can be sure that timing of growth hormone is really going to make that much of a difference because it sometimes comes down to a lot of us agree with. It sometimes just comes down to whether you are on to grow hormone or you don't respond to grow hormone. Yeah, it's almost just like just take it and get it in your fucking system and it's either going to work or it's not. I think that a lot of what we do is splitting hairs. And I'm not saying that's bad because we can come across things that all shit this works a little bit. I think outside of the box is great. But I think in this particular situation, my opinion I think it's splitting hairs. Okay. This, it's funny. I don't remember which podcast, this was, but I'm pretty sure it was with you guys. Was Andrew Berry on with you guys? Yeah, yeah, not too long ago. This is, okay, then this is the one where he was talking about BBC. It's like my bodybuilding brain and then my logical brain. You're right. My logical brain says, take it, get it in your system. I mean, whatever. Then my bodybuilding brain goes, bro, free workout. Exactly. And then you're kind of thinking about like, J, just take the J, you're going to grow. Yeah, right. But, bro. Yeah. Yeah. The study show. Yeah. It's like the show you still with two I use. They don't show with eight, you know? So it's like it's on a regular person versus, you know, like what are you doing? They're not trying to, it's like, oh, they lost, they lost a kilogram of body fat. It's like, all right. Well, we're trying to get down from eight to four percent. You know, so maybe the life policies, you know, it's like things, once they get more intricate, they get a little more specific. But yeah, I agree with you, 100% and it's like, you, I think when I usually start doing stuff like this, splitting hairs, timing things, it's just like, okay, what do I, what is probably the optimal thing? And even if it doesn't work, I'll inconvenience myself to this much of a degree. Yeah. Now, if I'm probably, I won't not get to the point where it's like, if I'm going to take 12, it's just crazy. But let's say 12 I use a GH. I'm going to do two every three hours and you know, it's like, yeah, to a some point, you're getting crazy. When you're waking up at the middle of the night, you're like, okay, so it's three hours from where I went to bed, not to it. Then it doesn't need to be all that. But if you, I say, like, if it were something like, it's convenient for me. I wake up. I train, I, I work at eight o'clock in the morning, so I train at five. I take my own Joel for singing the morning. Perfect. Do it. You know, it's convenient. You're going to remember them. All right. We got one from Paige here. She says lately, I've been hearing females using a cycle of both Annavar and Primo. I always thought it was one or the other. Just trying to understand why using both at the same time would be a thing. See, she had another question too. So I'll stop there and we'll get back to her and Paige to put her into his perspective is a figure competitor, I believe. I mean, you can, you're allowed to do as many things as it wants as you want. Yeah. It's kind of a tough question to answer because it's almost like, I would, I would compare it to this. Will you get more out of Primo and Annavar versus just taking more Annavar, especially when the dose is low, probably not? In this particular situation, I don't think that someone's going to add Primo, wow, this Primo, or be able to compare it to just say increasing your Annavar dosage. I'm comparing this to her being a figure competitor and the benefit that she may get out of it because she's the one that asks a question. But I don't think you're going to see much of it. It's a milligram to a certain degree. Someone can pick me apart on that and I would understand. But milligram to milligram type thing. It's not like it's anodrol or something that would show a drastic or dramatic difference. But it's not, I took cut to her question specifically. I would, I don't consider that on common. I mean, Primo and Annavar is a, you know, again, it comes down to doses, but those two compounds together for female sure. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. I would prefer those over adding windstrild to the mix because I've heard a lot of Annavar and Minstrel being used together. I'm not a big fan of Winston personally with Rose. And a pre-contest or offseason. Pre-contest. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, that makes more sense. I don't know. I think it's kind of just what you're, you, your level of competing and I guess running compounds and what you're comfortable with because, yeah, I mean, you can take both offseason. I usually don't have people do multiple compounds, usually one. And for simplicity, for not being a pain and honestly with, I would say with most females and I mean, you can agree to disagree. Most of them grow pretty well at the Annavar, you know. Yeah, not even, not even very much. So, I mean, I mean, I either women speak and better who want to pro-show and almost a whole prep to sing 10 Nograms in Annavar. Yeah, I believe it. I believe it. I've seen girls when they're pro-carts using very little music. Yeah, I know. Yeah, I know. Yeah, I know. Yeah, I know. If it's legit, it's like 10 more going to be pretty good. And you don't have to stay at 10 Nograms, but let's say, I mean, 10 Nograms of real Annavar is pretty good. And usually when people are like, no, this is, this isn't enough. I mean, I don't like be super critical, but you almost get into like, okay, if it's real, it's a good, do you train hard enough? Because man, like, lots of people change and it's super fast. Yeah. Let me ask you guys, I got a question for you three guy or YouTube guys, not three, because I am asking a question. But nonetheless, when it comes down to the compounds themselves, do you, do you look at, I'm trying to not give away my response, but the question is going to give it away. Yeah. Do you, we're talking more about sides than we are actual progress, because I've always felt that, look, just like we're talking about, I don't, I would rather a woman not take wind straw. But yet, if you take wind straw instead of Annavar, you take it in the same dosage instead of taking 10 grams of, of Annavar, you take five milligrams of wind straw and you take five milligrams of Annavar. Technically, basically, your progress is going to be roughly the same for this discussion. But the sides, I look at it from a side's component. I mean, you could take train, you could take DHB, but the sides are where you have to be careful and we, obviously, are more careful with females than, we are males because we get male side effects in your males, not that kind of thing. Yeah, exactly. So I think when the women should look at it more and she may have been asking in that context, but I don't know if it was clear. So from a benefit standpoint of what you're going to see in the gym, stars, muscle mass, things like that, it's going to be roughly the same. It's the sides when you change these compounds that can change sometimes dramatically. And the dose doesn't have to be that big for females. So I just wanted to throw that out there and see if you guys agreed, but I think you did. Yeah, absolutely. I would say, especially with wind stroll, I mean, if you're going to take wind stroll, you need to take less than you would have in a plan. Yeah, but even at a low dose, I mean, I don't disagree with that, but I'm just saying, if we're using real low doses, like it's five milligrams or I don't know if that would, I think, as it starts to get up higher, then of course the side effects become more dramatic when you get up in the higher. Oh, yeah, of course. But let's say on, you know, who, who, who, member 20, like a figure to better, 20 milligrams of anava are usually not that many sides, you know? And most of them, they come to you run in 23 milligrams and you're like 30, what are you doing? But let's say like you're 20 milligrams of anava, that's pretty common. 20 milligrams of wind stroll, you shouldn't be running that too long less the sides get out of hand. Yeah. All right. So, you know, you could, you could run that a couple weeks or even, let's say, like the last week, but all right, if you're thinking to talk in six, eight, twelve, that's not something that's realistic. In my opinion, to do it wisely. So, but yeah, I would, I'd say for the most part, when you're down to just milligrams, yeah, I agree. But I guess I just see, I do see wind stroll is harder. Yeah, oh yeah. She's coming into a show now. So, I think she's talking about prep, you know, and I think just kind of put it in a little more context. And I think that, like, I was thinking a couple things here just to kind of add in. I mean, I think you guys are right. I think that when that's my first thought when we talk about women and steroids, my first thought is like the side effects, not necessarily the benefits. But yeah, you stack two steroids together. Do you guys think there's a synergy? Do you guys believe in synergy between steroids? Because between steroids in general, because I think there is. I mean, I think that taking 500 and test, 500 deck in my experience, produce better results with less side effects than say taking a thousand tests. Skip. I don't know that there's not a synergy. I'm thinking this because my initial reaction was absolutely yes. But then, more, I think about it while you're talking and thinking to myself, I don't know that there isn't, but I question whether some people, because it's so individual, that some people just don't do well on certain compounds. And I don't know, when you say synergy, I think that it's more in my brain anyway, that it's more across the board like this and this will work. But sometimes it doesn't because, you know, I use myself as an example when it comes to pre-mo. I just don't seem to get much out of pre-mo as I mean, as an example. So I don't know that there would, I don't know if I would consider that a synergy with another drug, or I just don't respond very well to it. And I would respond with something else. Here's another example. I have used, say, you know, a trend in NPP together, and I thought that it was awesome and great. A lot of people don't like to do that. So I don't know, you know, if you ask most people, I think they would say, yeah, I don't run trend with, you know, NPP or DACA. And then I do it. And it's, I'm like, oh, that was just some good diswork. So I kind of got a soft topic. Sorry. What were you, what were you going to say though now, so about this topic? Oh, what was your question? Just synergy. I was just not to agree with, over the steps. Oh, yeah, yeah. No, it's funny because I kind of followed along the same as with skip. It's like my knee jerk reaction, like immediately was like, yeah, it's a course of synergy. And then like I was thinking about, well, it's a kind of much of synergy and how much it's just each compound's awesome. Yeah. But yeah, I would say if I were to take I don't know. What about trend and wind straw? Oh, I thought you're going to come. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. No, because I can see trend is wind, twin and trend. Let me slow down. Trend and wind straw. I would consider I think most people would that that's a pretty synergistic, but is it just that those compounds tend to work for most? I don't know. Yeah, that's why I can't figure out. You're right. I mean, but yeah, I would say like, if I'm, we'll say, turn a wind straw. If I'm taking, I don't know what's a responsible dose. 300 milligrams of trend. Yeah, that's responsible. I know. I mean, sometimes I talk about trend. People like, they look at your meal. I mean, even if you said like, 525, you know, they're like, well, bro, like two weeks, come down. Oh, go man. But you know, let's say you're doing whatever. 350 went, well, it's just like something I do in the offseason. It's like you put a hundred every other day with your test or something. I'd say you're going 350 in the wind straw and or 350 trend. And then let's say 50 wind straw every day. That works awesome. And I would say you're, you're absolutely not going to get the same effects from just adding 15 milligrams more trend. And you know what, you might not want to, because whenever you reach, I don't know. There's probably a sweet spot for everybody, right? All right. And because there's definitely a point where if I'm taking trend, I don't want to go over that less the side effects just get too much. And it's, it's not that, you know, I know some people, they're idea of side effects is like, oh, I can't handle it. It's so harsh. It's like, that's, that's when you're way too much. It's, it's like, I mean, are you sleeping well? Yeah. Or are you, is it just awful? Are you lactating? That's probably a terrible. And then you back a down a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. Just, just because you have caber doesn't mean that you need to use it. Yeah. You need to push it until you need to use it. Right. Just push it to get to take a gram of caber every day. All right. I'll dial us back in because she had one more question. I hope that we helped her out there. If she doesn't listen, I guess if we were to give advice, I would just say that if you're doing well with just anivard and stick with just anivard, you know, in that like Nelson said, you can get be the good results, you know, when a girl want to pro show on how many milligrams 10? That was 10. So there is that. That was, that was all the way to four weeks she was a 10. Oh, and I say, you would go ahead. I say, she doubled the dosage. She probably could have gotten her pro card at half the time. I just wanted to go ahead. That was a pro show. Oh, we gotcha. I think qualified for the Olympia on that. Yeah. Wow. So and I guess two my thought is that steroids are there to more or less support muscle in the prep. And as a figure competitor, I really do feel like for a lot of girls at least 10 milligrams and avar would be plenty. Do you need to push that up higher in the off, you know, off season. I don't know, but, you know, it's all individual, but yeah, in fact, man, I feel like steroids can even cause problems for girls getting getting my my thing is I want to see a girl be able to get lean enough and get hard enough. That's usually the challenge, you know, it's not like, I haven't seen girls have like a big issue with like, oh man, she's losing size as much as like well, she could have been tighter, you know what I mean? Right. So I don't know. One other quick one she had is, and I'll be interested to get both of your guys opinions on this. Typically, what is it good time to have your last leg day before a show? It's a good question. Yeah. I'm kind of old school. I use the old school approach and I usually cut cardio and leg training at a roughly about a week out. But again, you know, they're always variables, but typically that's what I like to do because I think that if you're dealing with inflammation coming into the last week and your legs, you're going to lose details and detail and separation. So, you know, there are some people who may need to do something there, but you know, even things like squats and stuff like that, I don't like to do a lot of heavy type of shit like that, even at a week out. So I don't go for the pump and I don't go for the even leg extension leg curls type stuff the last week, but she is that that was a she. Yeah. So a female that's paid. It's the same girl. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, you know, everybody's going to be different. I would say it's a very safe way to do it. Then from there, if you feel like, well, maybe I could get a little bit of work in, you could with future shows. You could try to get some some light isolation work in there. I don't know that it would be terribly beneficial. I think you're safe with a week, but that's just how I approach it. I have done a week, 10 days, 14 days. Everyone, like, it's funny a couple of years ago. People were talking about 14 days. You need to take two weeks off, fully recover, and well, like, you're already, you're still doing cardio for another week. So you're not really going to be recovered. I don't think my legs look this good. I felt like when I went just a week, that's when they looked the best. Any longer than that, and I don't have like crazy 3D stupid hang around muscle. So if I go too long, they just they kind of don't have the same fullness. So I like a week. I mean, it's funny because it's like the kind of the stereotypical, the bodybuilder thing, but a week works. There's a reason why most people do it like that. Yeah. I think filling out can be difficult, too, because if you're doing a lot of cardio, and it depends on the cardio that you're doing. And you try, I mean, the larger muscles, you know, in your body, they're going to be hard to fill out if they're very, very depleted, and then you could end up full everywhere else, and you could not actually fill it with, right, no, in quotes, and things like that. I actually think that's like the the more important thing that you said there's like, you cut cardio and like training there. And it's funny, because we were at the Chicago Pro and a keen William's gotten to the elevator with us. I mean, this was in Atlanta. So it's the Chicago Pro. But he got in the elevator with us. He's drunken sweat. This is the day before the open show. And like Jesus, like, is it raining outside? And he's like, no, I just did cardio the day before. And it's funny because I told who I was, he's in a look terrible. This is not because he's going to be, he looked diced. Yeah. Like it was funny because like he, it was the best I've ever seen. And he obviously he won that show. He won the show. And it's funny because it was a really close call and it came down to one point at the end. And I'm like, maybe that last session was like, what pushed him over the edge? Yeah, exactly. Or was he that good in spite of it? It could very well be. Yeah. It's just one of those things where I guess I would say, I mean, I don't always know because certainly I would have never, ever, ever had him do that. But Oscar had him do that. And he walked around stage and that is the best I've ever seen. Well, maybe they were watching it. I mean, not maybe. Oscar was obviously watching him really close. So he was in, in their right next to him. And it made sense. You know what I mean? It made sense. I think there has been times where I've seen cardio be beneficial later in the week coming into it. You know, get cal, get like get the food moving around, get the blood circulating. But it's not like something I would say, here's my template. But I don't know exactly exactly exactly. It's fine. I don't know. I mean, I'm sure if you guys go to guys go to a show. I mean, I just kept you don't normally go to shows, do you? And not no. Not as much as I used to. But you know the deal. It's like when you go to a show when you're at a gym like two days out, all the bikini girls are still doing the cardio. Yeah, you know, that I do. It also depends on the division. You know, it's like, maybe they need to look flat. You know, it's no bikini girls coming in bursting full or anything, you know? Yeah, I want to drag the top of the car. But I wanted to add one thing. We also don't know how much cardio into what extent we think of cardio and maybe it was intense, maybe it was short. Maybe it was two and a half hours and it was low intensity. And he was in a rubber suit. And they wanted to move water because he had spilled dramatically. You don't have to go. I'm not going to walk up the next day. And he was dry as fucking full as fuck. I mean, that could be too. He could have been spilled and then they fixed it. Absolutely. Yeah, we're probably not going to get to all the questions here. Guys, just because I don't have the stamina to stay up and do them. But we'll get through what we can. We'll save them the rest of the questions for the next episode. I'm just going to take the next one I had down here. I am curious as to how all you guys, what your methods are for stacked design for yourself and for your athletes. There's a school of thought that roughly 10 milligrams per kilogram is a standard range of combined compounds during a blast phase for an intermediate bodybuilder. It is something I've picked up from following Dan Du Sheen into his theories, just wondering how you all go about it. And actually, I'm going to tie two questions into one. That's the kind of host I am. Because we can't get them off. So I'm going to try to do two here. There's another guy who says that this is the guideline protocol for the off-season by a, he says a certain bodybuilding coach, not saying the names. Don't want you to be biased or unbiased. What do you three think of such approach? Note is a rough diagram that gets adapted and individualized based on the athlete's needs and context. So he has a graph here showing the weeks and then it's milligrams versus kilograms. And then he's got a chart to figure it all out. Is that for gear? Yes. Milligrants. So I'm going to guess. Yeah, he's talking gear. What's your thought here, Skip? If it's from another prep coach that he doesn't want a name, I don't want to come in. I don't want to respect for whoever that prep guy is, whether I like him or hate him, I would have the same response. I would, I'm not going to beat up the guy asking a question, but I would say that if someone posted anything that I've done with my client and posted online to get, you know, opinions, I would probably be mildly offended. Now this looks like it's another. This looks like he's put this out, I'm guessing. Like the coaches. Oh, okay. All right, if that's the case. That's what I'm guessing. Yeah. Yeah. In Milligrants, I'd have to see it. I going back to the first the first question. I don't use formulas for anything and that's not to say that they're bad, but I don't use them for calories. I don't use them for, you know, gear dosing or anything else. In the reason for that is this simple, I'm going to use two examples. If I have an NFL lineman who might come into town at, you know, 360 pounds and or even sometimes higher. If he's listening, I'm not taking a shout out, but nobody knows exactly who it is. His, my formula, his calories would be significantly higher than say 130 pound figure girl. Yeah. I have seen 130 pound figure girls routinely taking far more calories than this particular NFL lineman to get lean. So the formulas, the reason I don't use them is because they just don't, he's not that good. They're basic starting points for for an individual for a person. I don't know maybe I'm wrong that I don't know if a lot of prep guys use that type of approach. He's talking gear though. Okay, but, okay, as far as Milligrant, okay, I know where I go. Okay, fair enough. I can see the same as I come out into two two questions. Yeah. Yeah. It's the same premise in the sense coming back to the formula, tons of I just don't like it because I tend to run cycles or help to set up cycles for clients based on what they had done in the past. How long or how much of a history they have with gear use, how they responded to it, things like that. Yeah. Again, I, the formula's I'm just not a big fan of that approach. I'm not either man. I'm just not. Okay. I'm just going to say I was like, no, no, I'm 100% with you because I looked at them like, you know, at the end of the day, it's like, it's just not the way that my brain works, you know. Here's the deal, man, is that a formula would be good. I think a formula could be interesting to somebody that's new. And if there's a prep coach out there that's found a formula that works for him, then more power to him. But I wouldn't say I wouldn't be comfortable trying to take that formula and adapting it for myself. My experience has come through, I mean, it's years of just seeing a lot of physics and learning, asking a lot of questions from people who are smarter than me, and then seeing things for myself to understand how to do it. And through all that, I would say the exact same thing as you skip that it's super individualized that, you know, it all comes down to somebody's previous experience and how they've responded to different compounds. And I mean, I talked to a guy who is in a lead level power lifter who I had suggested to use 25 milligrams of anodoro. You know, like, and it's just like for him, it made a lot of sense. But you wouldn't think that, you know, based off of a formula. I don't know. But I don't know, what do you think, Nelson? I've never used a formula for a year. That's not the way I think as far as, oh, you're 200 pounds, you need to be using this much testosterone. I don't think like that. Especially since, let's say, you're 6 feet to 20. I'm, I'm 5 foot 5 to 20. What about body famperson and the same thing? Are you going to, are you going to dose your gear based on total weight? Yeah. Right. So it's like, I've been, I've been taking gear for a little while and then the sky is, he's never touched anything and he's skinny and he's 6, 4. It doesn't make sense that he would store it on as much gear as I would be. Right. So to me, like, and I'm not going to like step all over this version, to me, that's illogical. And that could because I don't have the scientific background to understand is formula. Or maybe we're not getting a little story. Or maybe there's a whole other thing that goes with that graph. Yeah. Yeah. But I still think that the basics are around the same. When you're starting, probably test only 300, 500 milligrams, you're off to the races. You know, whether you are 160 pounds on stage or you are 200 pounds just starting, I'm not going to do anything different. I would still start with someone around there. I'm not going to start someone on a sarm or multiple compounds at once. Yeah. Or a kick, a kick started or I'm never going to ever do that. And you can always go up. That's the thing. I think understand. If you get it wrong, you can just go up. Yeah. There's nothing wrong with that. Yeah. I don't know. To me, it's really hard to kind of I agree with the comparison to it's the same with nutrition. Like when someone tells me what they're eating, I don't go, okay, well, you're 185. So times 10 for calories. You know, I've never done that. I can understand where the formula though, if I just take everything I know and I completely wipe it out and I say, gosh, where would I start? A formula would be really helpful to get me some type of black and white starting point. So even if for those people who don't know and they use the formula, that's fine. Then once you get that where you're starting with the formula, then you have to start to read your body and pay attention. And I think a lot of people just they you need time and you need that experience under your belt to be able to read the feedback that your body is giving you and then be able to make those adjustments. Yeah. That's right. I mean, that's the reality. And when people say, well, I don't want to do the trial and error. I want someone else who knows how to were basically doing the same right we're reading what you're doing and we're taking your feedback and we're seeing and we're now we might say this some time because we're better off at reading it without being biased and your where someone's individual brain can you kind of go, oh, I'm hungry. Oh, I need to achieve me. Oh, I need or less. I need to have to deal with those biases. Also, you've seen it so many times you've had a lot more experience. So you can make at, you know, and that's that's the thing with the coach and you can make those choices and decisions quicker. I think that would mean the other part of that story too. And just like with with food, if you saw someone was taking 600 tests 400 in Q, they're not going to be like, oh, well, you've got to be on a gram of tests and they under the Q. This is your body weight says that you need to take a little bit like, oh, you'll be like, oh, all right, this is working for you growing originally right here and then you were going to change this when it changes this. So it's situational. It might be a great starting point. You know, if you have you're very new at this and you were you've been doing this for a couple of years and you're kind of like, where do I go from here? It's like, well, my body weight increases this. I want to try this. Go for it, not yourself though. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. I think part of by billion is is experimentation and learning your body and kind of just trying out a bunch of stuff. Yeah. But yeah, it's never something I was just personally. Sorry about that. Yes. All right. I'll see if I can find one more here. I'm, uh, that was my phone. Nothing. Is that what that was? Yeah. I was propping it up. I keep it propped up so I can see it without having to really look down and, you know, look like I'm not listening or, you know, I mean, so I haven't propped up and I had it too far and, you know, all right. I got, uh, let's see here. Okay. This kind of goes back to when we're talking about training. If I'm doing unilateral exercise, should I go to failure with each side or do the same number reps, even if the one side hasn't reached failure, um, will one side grow more if I do more reps? Well, that's what we were talking about earlier. That's what the post that I was referencing when it, okay, when we were talking about imbalances. So the only thing I would add to that is that I wanted to say earlier, but we had gone along on it was, I don't believe. And this was just a personal thing. It's not, and I understand that I have OCD issues, but I will never, if I had a bad imbalance, I would not train one side. I would figure out how to train both sides. Sure. To figure it. Yeah. I, there are those people who would do a couple of extra reps on one side. If I just, that's just not something because then you, you get into this big grayer is too enough. Should it be three? Is that too much? It's like you can't look and go, because you're always going to have one side based on coordination and your, uh, you know, the way the nervous system is set up that is, you're going to favor one side and bodybuilding is funny because you want that perfect balance, but it's rarely there. There have been pros forever and ever, how a little you know, in the 80s and everything else. Richie's probably had an arm that was an inch and a half bigger than the other. They're not always going to be perfectly the same and you're not going to notice it. Well, you will individually on yourself. You'll notice the same, but even really good judges unless it's a pecker allad or something. It's right next to it. Then you can see the symmetry or the asymmetry. You're not going to notice, it has to be a pretty dramatic difference in a leg or an arm before it's going to be noticed. One of my listeners from bodybuilding nerds, I think it was, I don't know, he might be listening here. I wish I could remember who it was, maybe he is listening, maybe he'll, he'll message me after this. He had such a cool analogy the way he put it. So imagine if you have an imbalance, let's say like one pack is, well, we'll just like call this a number is the way he put it. One pack is a six. The other pack is a five. If you can move those up several numbers and now this one is a nine, let's say this one's in 11 and this one's a 10, it's still in balance, but that the imbalance that asymmetry is going to look a lot smaller if you can continue to grow both muscles. I thought that was a really good way of putting it. You turned one up to 11. So yes, yes. You got any thoughts that's growing on that one? No, so I know we kind of talked about it a little bit earlier. No, I agree. I was able to throw it in spinal tap on my front, so I feel like I did my gym and for everyone else. Whoever has a thing this is spinal tap, I'm very disappointed you, you should all be watching that. I would like to go back just a brief second. Very surprised and disappointed that skip doesn't like pre-mo. Yeah, I know I am not a fan of it. I ran it at a high note and I'm like God damn, it's just does not see in the second I changed that one compound out, it was great. Really? Man, I really like it. That shows the difference. I mean, that's a good example right there. We both been at it for a while and you like it and you respond well to it and I'm looking at it going yeah, this could go right in crash. It's funny, I know there's like every time I went to the moment, it's like I don't get stuff that's what it's supposed to be, right? So I've had it where it's been MPP and I could just tell that is MPP that is not rainbow. But let's say more recently I know had some bare amps that you know, I know were legit and I had the best experience to where I'm like almost looking forward to doing it again. It's like, I looked so good. I don't know, it's funny. I really like it. I work with a guy who everything he took he didn't get a good response from, you know, like we tried. This is guy. What's up? I said golf. You know, we tried you know, tested in anvara, test in DACA. Like everything, everything was bad news. I shouldn't say testing anvara, testing deep all you know, testing DACA. We tried to EQ. Nothing was going really good. And then he tried master on and he started looking better and he started improving. And then we thought, like he was growing and getting in shape. And I was like, let's I said, I got a crazy idea. You know, you haven't really responded to things while in your off season. Let's throw a little mast in and see what happens. We used some master on anvara and obviously he's in a surplus. He's running test. He's gunna grow. This is more hormone than he would have had. Otherwise, was my thought. And he did his, you know, he's not a huge guy, but he made really good progress. He's got, you know, some decent muscle on him now. But yeah, testing master on was a great growing compound for him. Just like test it. Then I thought, well, if that were good, why don't we try pre-mo and pre-mo work really well, too? So why is that explaining it? You know, I talk to he's going to talk to. I don't know. No, no, you're okay. But I was looking at one other component, too. That was HVG. We looked at all that. And I can't remember where it was now, but everything made sense. He has a really weird response in general. There are some stuff going on there. Like, like his TRT is over 300 milligrams to get him in range. Wow. But it's not, it wasn't a free test officer on issue because when you were talking about the master, I'm like, oh my god, he just said, hi, SHVJ and when he took the master out, you know, basically you can have high levels of total tests and it doesn't fucking matter. He's just a test out. So, but that's what came to mind, no originally. You know what it was? And I'm still putting the pieces together on him. But I talk to Victoria about it. And I think there's some, I think there's some stuff. It's pretty deep in there, though, that relate to why that may be. If I do figure it out, I'll bring it back and let you guys know. But yeah, I just wanted to express that. Yeah, everybody has such a different response. He's like an extreme example, though, you know. Right. Yeah. It's funny. It does give a little bit of hope to some people, though, who are like, oh, maybe I just haven't tried that combo. It's like, that's why I'm not mistreating it. Yeah. It's like I haven't had the master on. I can still win it all. It's just a master. I mean, still win it all. Yeah. Yeah. So skip out as your, how's your client training going? I know. I've seen you with a bunch of people and stuff down there in Florida. You mean, I won on one? Yeah. Yeah. It's going. I first and foremost, I just like being out of the house and socializing. It is very cool. Very fun clients are awesome. I just, I really enjoyed the commute. I could do it without, but it's a necessary evil because I don't live there anymore. But it is. It's pretty cool. Manning. I'm not training him one or one, but a man he down in my am, he's coming back from that torn bicep needs back to be able to train his funny because I was going to note earlier. You were talking about Fitzwater and, you know, they don't lose it. And I get updated picks from Maddy every week and I'm like, could you just lose something? They're only above there. Like, no one is going to guess that this fucker hasn't been training. It's just so it's incredible. When did he start back training? Because I just saw a picture of him. Like, he was supposed to yesterday or something and I'm like, two easier. It's going to be. Yeah. He is still not 100% the way he's very, very closely. He's training things like training his upper body, but he continued to train arms brutal. I mean, they would hold him down in the angle leg press and things like that. And of course, he had to be careful with his grip and pulling against the bicep. I had to put it very nice and it was nice, very nice email saying and he'll back me up a few soliciting. Those neutral grip narrow T bar rows while your bicep is still recovering. It's not going to be the best option right now. I think not. Yeah, I like, I know I realized they're not under grip. We, you did get rid of that grip and that's a good thing. But let's go over hand and let's, you know, let's not go so narrow. So he's really not coming back. Oh, well. Yeah, it was a very nice, very nice email. He will back me up on that. He's coming back. He's doing real well. He's just not 100% yet, but he's very, very close. And I will give him this. He has been very patient. I really thought that when he first had the injury, I'm like, this one of the fuckers are going to wait three weeks and he's going to back thing and I'm going to have to stop down there and poke my head and go, what are you doing over there? But he has been very good. He really, he's being very, very smart about it. So he's got a good support system. His girlfriend's awesome and she's got a medical background. So she keeps helps to keep him in check, too. So it's a good combo. Nice. It's funny. It's like, I usually have to like, check myself a little bit because I do want to be really over the top. Like, what are you doing with some people? But I first I was like, okay, now there's the way that we know it should be done. How would you do it? Would you be back this soon? Or would you wait the whole time, like the doctor said, and so it's kind of like, all right, well, maybe you could get some little grace, you know? Yeah. But it's hard to jump on somebody when they're so passionate and they're so you can relate to it. You're like, yeah, what would I do? I know. That's a thing. It's hard to be mad at Martin for like two seconds. We just, he's just so excited to be back in the gym and you know, you know, someone like loves body doing that much. And you know, it's funny because we've talked about it before too, Brady. We're Brady King. He's the same way. It's just too happy for me to get really mad. You know, it's like, love's it too much. Are you? I think there's an doctor going to go ahead. No, I just said there's an argument there that because these guys recover because they're bigger and they grow that they recover from workouts so much quicker, they're going to recover from injuries quicker too and us mere mortals. Right. So there's like there's that component too. Yeah. And obviously it's like you're recovering faster than a normal person. Right. So if you're, you know, especially there's growth hormone or whatever, it's it's not like you're if you're dad got hurt. You know, yeah, it's like they have like doctors have this in mind like you need eight weeks. It's like we probably need a week. Could we do it in four maybe? I don't know. Right. It's probably not the smartest thing. But it's possible. All right. Listen, let's wrap this thing up guys. For another episode of Blood Sweat and Gear, I'm here with skip hill, check out team skip dot com. Check out Nelson over on the Graham. I'll have everybody's Instagrams in the show notes. Check out our sponsor True Nutrition. Did I already say that? I was going to. I don't know. I'm getting tired. It's time for me to go. See you guys.

What's up guys? Welcome back to Muscle Minds with Dr. Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McNeilly. All of our programming is brought to you by True Nutrition.com. You can use our code advices from its four-some additional savings plus that helps to support our programming. They've got awesome stuff, high-quality things like Citroly, Malate, Beta, Alinean, Highly-Brain Cyclic, Dexteran, your pre-is, your intros, your posts. And they must be three different shakes. You can happen to buy that out. Yes. Because when it all goes into your stomach, there's three compartments, like a room in it. You know what? Like a cow. And the pre-ghost of the pre-is long as you will it to go into that area. Yes. So that's kind of how it works. Nice. Yeah. The timing is absolutely vital for some of those things. What's going on, Scott? How you doing? I'm good, man. I'm good. It's another, it's almost feel like it's going to get warm here again in Florida. Not that it's never not been warm. I've been riding the motorbike. I've been pretty much everywhere. Nice. It's generously which is great. So, so much fun. I was going to the gym the other day and I was thinking I was going to be a little late, getting there. And I covered in, like, without, like, going to screw it in early fast, I covered, like, normally what about about 18 minutes in five minutes on the bike. And it's because it's so, I was hitting the lights. So I was just fasting up the hit the lights. I caught the wave. And then whatever lights I do hit, if I do hit them, I can accelerate from zero to 45 or 50 in, like, two and a half, three seconds if I so choose. So I immediately leap forward, like, two blocks in front of anyone behind me. Okay. Yeah. And it's because these electrical motorcycles, just like, you know, Tesla's electrical vehicles. They're all so fast. There's just crazy. The power is instantaneous. There's no gearing or anything like that to deal with. That's cool. Hey, so I wanted to give a shout out to one of our listeners, Christopher Wu. He is a doctor of General Medicine in Malaysia. And he also is a part owner of what looks to be a pretty bad ass Jim. And he, he, he listened to and watches the shows on YouTube. He said muscle minds is this favorite. So I want to throw that up there. Right on. He's got a great physique. Man. Yeah. Sorry. Yeah. But yeah, I just wanted to mention that. So what do we have going on today? More like basics like resistance training, training basics, 101 stuff. Okay. I've kind of been paying attention. I've been in this situation before. Long ago when I started graduate school, I was transitioning from, I was a physics and germ and undergraduate. So I took the pre-rex to get into grad school and I started taking grad classes. And when I was at university Texas, I took a class in the summer that was supposed to be like a pinnacle class for doctoral or masters degree students. It was a carbohydrate metabolism. It was actually taught by John I.D. Okay. Who did a nutrient timing book? Really well known guy. One of the best, most published guy in guys and carbohydrate metabolism exercise. You really well know. And I took that class without the background that I really needed. I had some basic shit. And I, and I was just like, who was, I had to study 10 times as hard to understand the concepts. And had I understood the background material, which I eventually sort of, I'm like, oh, that's where that fits. And this is what's going on. And this is what they're referring to. It all like everything kind of can crash together. So I figured it might make sense for people who are like trying to follow the, is volume, the driver of hypertrophy type of thing. And I heard it was actually on Fouad's podcast. They were talking about what intensity is. There's like a title of the YouTube video is what is intensity. So I figured I just kind of covered that stuff. The intensity thing is like, it's been an issue like a semantics problem. As long as I can remember like, like, what is intensity? What does that mean? And people are literally talking about two different things when they use that word. Okay. So we can cover that. But I wanted to cover like, like, basic training principles. All right. I like that. Yeah. It's like real kind of simple stuff like nothing over the top. But then connect with what you see in different programs like my training system or John Meadows or DC training and why those things make sense and why you would want to employ those to produce bigger muscles. All right. Get more jacked. Cool. I'm all for this man. I think it's a great idea. I think it'll be good for people who have been doing it for a while. You know, like myself, maybe get some refreshers, possibly learning something new. And for people that are new, obviously, could be of benefit. Because I will say the one critique, I think we get a muscle mind sometimes is, Scott loses me. You know, you know, but it's good. It's good. It's good. It's good to follow him with. I know what you're talking about. It's good though. It's good to challenge people. So where do we start with this? I'm excited. I can, I can send you the list of the training principles that you want and you can post it up so people can see. That'd be great. We typed this last one out so you have it all. All right. We're just texting through you. You're just texting through? Nicet, two. You missed out. Didn't you allow? Quite. All right. There we go. Right. Then too easy. Right here we go. That's all right. So and now that I did so, my pose was just. It was just a good score. Then I thought it would have improved. Yeah. So, this is, and now that I didn't even realize this until just as we were talking, that when I was in undergraduate, or when I was a graduate student at University Texas at Austin, I got to be a graduate assistant, a teaching assistant for the weight training class that Jan and Terry Todd taught, and you know, of course, Jan through Victoria. So, these are probably the best weight training classes that you'll ever see. Really. Yeah, just because they were taught with a little bit of exercise science in play, I think a lot of places, and I did this when I went and actually taught those same classes when I was in California, but you go into PE classes, and they just sort of, it's kind of like PE and elementary school. They just kind of let you roll around, I presume. This is not the disparage any PE teachers. But the weight training classes, I think, can be pretty sort of like, let people do whatever, and the students will tend to do that too. They'll just like, just a blow-off class to get some credit. Sure. So, they want to train, they're just there, not because they actually have some fitness goals. So, anyway, these principles of training were one of the things that we introduced in like a little 10-minute lecture. Okay. And this is like the basics of exercise programming. This is like the ground substance of sport science in large part, and it's what's going on. It's the paradigm from which sports scientists are viewing many of the training related studies that they're doing. This is sort of the perspective that we're looking at things through. So, these are these principles of training. You could put them up now if you want to. It doesn't. They're up just like half. Yeah. So, specificity, which was where we start. So, what's specific, this is the first one on a list of specificity of training. Basically, this just means that whatever you do as a form of exercise, be it the mode, like if you're on a cyclergometer versus a treadmill versus a stepper climbing uphill, running downhill, whatever the kind of resistance training versus some sort of cardiovascular exercise, swimming versus cross-country skiing. The adaptations that you see will be specific to that mode of training. So, a little bit of carryover. So, remember the study we talked about two podcasts ago where they trained using squats, and they tested strength on a leg press at any extension. Yes. And despite having a bigger quad, there was no knee extension strength increases. Or muscle, they just didn't know how to use it. That's specificity of training. So, and we apply that as to why you want to add in different exercises as well. So, that connects with this variety notion, which is one of the other principles of training. So, that's just basically, if you want to get better at bench presses, you don't do a machine press. It's not going to carry over very well. If somewhat, but not very well. Individualization just means that everyone's different, which is totally true. We all know this. You know, this is why some exercise just don't work for some people. They get on a bench. Some people squats just don't do shit for the legs. They get a big ass. And they just want to squat like a pilot or a vet feels normal. So, that's a basic principle. So, literally when people have those arguments they talk about, like, you must squat for your legs. That's sort of a violation of one of these basic training principles that are, and I couldn't even know where these originate because they're just sort of the accepted given of exercise science in a certain way. It's like, these are the undeniable truths from which we start building our body of knowledge that there is biological inter-individuality. And some people are going to do well with squats and some people aren't. Some people like leg presses, some people don't, some people like a particular leg press, some people don't. So, that's, that is, like, so if someone tries to constrain you to just do it my way or the highway. And it's very very clear to you that their way is not your way. Then, here's my way of saying, like, that sort of invalidation, one of the basic ideas that forms the foundation of sport science. And it's kind of common sense too. You find the shit that works for you. So, that's the individuality or individualization. And then of course, there's some of the divinus up in the progression and overload. So, first and foremost, if you want to create an adaptation, there has to be some form of overload. So, this goes back to general adaptation syndrome, which Hans Celia, you've heard that before GAS, we'll talk about that, or. So, that comes from, and some people suggest it's sort of in misapply, but it's the idea that if you stress an animal in some way, there'll be an accommodation and adaptation that will occur to resist that stress in the future. And there are different phases of this. And if you, if you go, if you stress over stress, you'll actually have a little lack of adaptation. Yeah. Sort of a decomposition. A map is what we would, we would find if someone's literally starting to over-trained. So, the idea is, and you see this in all sorts of things. This is why I use examples like UV radiation on your skin. Create a stress. The adaptation is melanin production, so that you can have a darker skin that will prevent those UV light getting into your DNA and causing damage. Yeah. So, happens actually with radiation. You can actually produce a hermetic response, like with gamma rays, that increases the antioxidant capacity of cells. You see it with snake venom, like this is people will use small amounts of snake venom to create an immunity to snake venom. What's probably technically an immunary resistance at least. So, people will handle snakes, do that shit. I think we saw it with the incredible help. Yeah. That was a total, that's a little different thing. Yeah. Different gamma rays. It's got a little bit more than antioxidant capability that came from the gamma rays. But damaging radiation will produce that. If it's too much, then it's just damaging. Yeah. So, you have to be some sort of an overload. Something that is outside the normal realm. And this is the whole thing about resistance exercise. It makes it such a great stimulus for growth is that just a normal set is way beyond what people normally do in the course of their day to day life. It's just so outside the norm. That it would produce this, but people consider even kind of an aberrant adaptation. It's producing a callous, that's made of muscle. So, then progression or progressive overload kind of lump them together means that you need to progressively increase the stimulus so that you maintain an overload. So, that's just increasing the weight, getting more reps, maybe even getting the sets, getting the same number of reps with the same weights, but with shorter rest intervals, whatever it may be. So, that's progressive overload. So, you can see like, if you sort of think of these, you're going to just pretty simple things, but they're all interwoven in the good programs. What's your next one? Variety. You do different exercises. So, there's, I think, fun. Sake is the name of the article that are the first author on the study that people often refer to, where they compared training. I think chess with a squad or chess with a leg press, like, one or maybe two exercises versus a variety of exercises. Over the course of time, and the variety of exercises produced significant growth, and all the muscles of the squad, whereas just doing like one or two exercises, I can't remember the exact set up for the particular study. Only produced hypertrophy in one or two wasn't all four heads of the squad or steps. So, variety in our context from a nervous system perspective, thinking back on what we talked about before, produces different activation patterns. You come in and do a new exercise. You've never done, you haven't done before, have done a long while, and train chess as hard with just as many reps per set, and you'll be sore as crap. Yeah. If you haven't been doing, even, like, just bearing if you're doing deadlifts, you go to a rackedead, or you go to a deficit-ed, or you throw bands or chains on there. It'll change things. It's very, very similar. But it will change things. So, the variety, this is the interesting thing. And this is the way I really look at variety, and overlet don't see people talk about this very often. But variety means a change in stimulus, which is really what and overload is. It's not that you're not lifting ships throughout the day. People are picking up their groceries and moving things around, picking up their dog or a baby or what have you. You're still lifting things. You still do those basic movements. You put things overhead in the shelf. Maybe you push your lover off of you and bad or something like that. Well, some are not lying on our back, pushing things up, but you're always doing those movements. But you're just not, but the variety in the case of adding, doing those things in a resist, in the gym with resisted exercise, is an overload. Yeah. So, the nature of overload is because it varies, it's different than what your day to day stresses. Okay. So, when people say the criticism, I don't get it so much, maybe because I've refuted it so many times, but every once in a while someone would chime in on my Instagram and say, why do you do all these weird exercises? Yeah. And some of it's because I feel those better. They're more that's easier to have a mind muscle connection with those. And as Don Tase says, getting funky with it. But it's a different activation pattern. That makes for a novel stimulus. Overload is a novel stimulus. A new exercise is a novel stimulus. They're basically two sides of the same coin that produce the stimulus which is an overload and evokes growth. So, variety is super duper important in my opinion. Not that you want to give up and do all sorts of weird shit all the time. And constantly employ the leader of muscle confusion principle. But in people, it's another kind of tangent we can go on with people, get up and arms by, you can't confuse the muscle. And I'll address this too. I'm trying to think how people say it, because it never makes total sense. It never makes total sense to me. But it's, is if they say the muscle doesn't, what is, how does the muscle doesn't know the load or doesn't know how much weight it is or something like that? That's heard that. Something along those lines. Yeah. It's, it's said various ways. And it's a criticism of people using, that sometimes it's used as a criticism. People sticking to the same exercises. And actually, we do have, there is a mechano-transduction. A production signaling pathway in skeletal muscle. And when you have a different activation pattern, because you're doing a different exercise, if you look at one particular motor units or the nerve and all the fibers that it, that it activates, it's going to be activated in a different way. Yeah. So it's mechanical stimulus, the load that it undergoes, is going to be different with a different exercise. And the muscle does know that. And that, fun-sacce study actually is a demonstration of that in terms of actual muscle growth. They also have done, this is pretty cool stuff. You can do MRI to use a magnetic resonance image to look at muscle activation. So they've done studies where you do a particular exercise. And they do sections along the length of a muscle. And they look at how much activation you see at different points along the length of the muscle. And when they've done that, we're giving exercise. And then it exposed those subjects to training. You see muscle growth that reflects the activation in the training. So whether it's more activation, like in the middle portions of the muscle, you see more gross. Which, of course, makes sense. Yeah. But literally it's been demonstrated. That's cool that you can see. Oh. Yeah, it's like that with the proofs and the pudding that actually demonstrated the proofs of proof of the demonstration that where you activate the muscle is where you're going to get the growth. And you see that when you, you can change your foot position or roll on the, on the middle or the lateral side of your calf to activate the Medial or lateral head to the gastrochmoresso. And you see muscle growth in the areas that are activated using those different exercise variations. So the Charles glass phenomenon of like filling in the holes and using all these funky exercises to create activation patterns. That that are new and novel and especially with the back muscle that you're which is so complex. There's, there's truth to that. You can sense it. You can feel like holy shit that hit my back in a way that I've never felt it before. Yeah. But it's absolutely true. There's absolutely truth to that. So at least as, as, as we can have truth in, you know, in this world. So the varieties super duper important, I think, as long as you're still up the body. As long as you're still applying those other principles, especially the progressive overload one. So just randomly and like you were saying, I think you said a woman made a comment on your video that just going the gym and being tense, just train really hard. If you're sort of mindless and, and you're, and you're not paying attention to what's going on in terms of progressively overloading. So getting better with more reps and or more weight. Then you'd be denying that progressive overload principle and you'll still get a stimulus. But it may not be an overload stimulus. Okay. Yeah. So, and for most people just training hard, you get the new beginning. Mm-hmm. Any stimulus overload stimulus. You don't have to be, you'll just get stronger because you're adapting. So rapid. Sure. So. So. So variety can be overplayed. But it's super important. I think, especially for people trying to eat out extra amounts of hip-hurtry that normally wouldn't come. I would say that's probably the biggest gap in my plan right now is variety. Since I train from home, I'm limiting the number exercises I do each week or each workout. My equipment is going to be more limited than if I were at, you know, the big corporate gym that has the entire hammer strength line. Plus the entire free motion line and some side backs machines over to the side. So I'd say that's probably my biggest limiting factor, but it sounds like you're telling me that you can create variation almost even within the same exercise. Absolutely. That's, I mean, that's what bands and machines both do. Yeah. And they do it differently. What happens? The bands tend to be, create a little more muscle soreness. They tend to be a little more taxing on the muscle. Yeah. And then change, do. Really? Yeah. John Meadows has made this, don't he says this, he'll see it, but I think he maybe even notes it when he writes his programs, but I've seen him talk about it. And I think we cover this in his book. I think I wrote about this in his book, The Retality of Mount Dog Training because I have a section on bands and chains. But so imagine, let's say you're just doing a press or it could be a squat, whatever. You lift up and as you lift up, the chains will add load the higher you go because more of the chain is being lifted off the ground. So, and so that will happen, you'll progressively overload nor the end towards the end of the, not progressively overloads probably the wrong term, but you will increasingly increase the load as you go to the top of the movement. And then when you come down, there's going to be a free fall effect. So the chains aren't going to immediately be hitting the ground if you go really fast, they would just be totally free fall. Yeah. Just like you would with any free weight. Whereas the bands don't have that lag time. Hmm. Okay. You gotcha? Yeah. And the thing that will differ with bands and chains is, this is going to be all over the place. So depending on the band where you get the band and the strength of the band. So in the range of motion, so if you have a range of motion, let's say it's, you know, the chest press, so it's 18 inches. And you're using a really thick band, let's say, you may see hardly any change in the force from start to finish in that band. If it's under a lot of tension at the beginning. So good bands have pretty equal tension. Once you load them up enough, where they're actually creating significant amount of increased load to the exercise. Except for maybe like a hackswot where you've got a really long range of motion from top all the way deep into the whole. A good band doesn't change the load too much. I can see that. Yeah. What's stretched out? So there's going to be a link tension relationship for the band. And that's going to differ depending on how thick the band is and where you got the band. Who's band it is? Yeah. So and how long the band is, of course, too. So if you put a little, really, little band on there. And you only got, you know, a total of five feet of material on both ends of the band. That's different than if you have a band that's 10 feet. Yeah. Because the relative change and length over the course of your absolute range of motion is going to be less for a longer band. So you literally would have if you took like two bands, let's say they're identical. Like I used the orange bands from a lead FTS. Yeah. They're just they're kind of good universal bands. They come in the mountain dog training pack. I've got that too. Yeah. It's great. So if you took, just see you on a hackswot and you can, you could take two of those orange bands and just load them just once. Hook it on the bottom somewhere near the floor wherever you can on the frame or what have you. And then on the bar, two on each side is going to be different than taking one and looping it twice around onto it. Oh yeah. Totally, totally different feel in terms of the change and tension from top to bottom. And the amount of tension you're going to have to probably. That's depending on how tall you are and how much stretch you have in the band at the beginning. So, but with change then, it's also going to depend on how you've loaded the chain and how heavy the chain is. So, at the top, you might have the chain completely airborne. So it's not resting on the ground at all. You might have almost all of it on the floor. Yeah. So you can change that for instance by hanging kettlebell off the end of the chain. So you've got a 20 pound chain, you've got a 20 pound kettlebell. Yeah. And you've got a lot of loaded the top and then when that kettlebell or whatever, you could have a couple of them. And that hits the ground, you immediately have and you could you could figure out where to put that. So that it is chest beyond your sticking point on the way up. Okay. You drive out of the hole and you sort of position that in the right place, of course along the range of motion. So that it provides extra overload where you're the strongest. Yeah. To change the groove. Yeah. You can do that. Yeah. You can, so back to your gym and what you're wanting to do, you could, you can. And then look at the belly, you know, the question I try to do. But you would get a different exercise and they'll feel totally different doing that. I saw a, actually was in Jordan Peters, log on his site and he had done a hacksquat really, really deep with the wedge. So we put the bottom of the foot plate to put a wedge in there that gave some, some planter flexion. So it made it more of a quad based exercise. And instead it just literally destroyed him. The paws were just totally wrecked. Yeah. And that was just a little bit of a wedge. So you get start getting wedges, put a wedge in there, put different configurations of bands and chains. And you could make three or four relatively, actually pretty different exercises with the axe. But if you wanted to. Yeah. So yeah. The bands and chains are great. And then there's all, I've got all sorts of tricks. Let me know when we can actually, I'd love to like, you can be like the virtual tour of the gym. I'll, I'll try to tell you something. I've been, when I've been going, I've been training with Derek Oslo now. He's a two-twelf guy here in town. Yes. We mentioned a little bit. And yeah, and every, he made me washing this now because we're going to, we're training together in a little while. And like I think almost every day or like three out of four days I've been in there. I'm bringing shit in. Yeah. Like toys. Of course I do. Yeah. Like I actually, we're going to do Mountain Dog Rose today. And I have a Mountain Dog Road attachment. Okay. That I bought from a lead FDS. It's just a little sleeve with a handle on it. Oh yeah. And over the end of, or, those are cool. It's in this saddle bag and I'm motorcycle. Yeah. The pan here and my motorcycle, and we're going to bring that in. So that creates a whole different way to do. You can do Mountain Dog Rose on those actually with that with the handle. Yeah. Those are cool things. Another like, three or four hundred dollars worth of investment. And like a super squats belt or hip squat belt. The higher in mind is the one I like the best. Candles like that. The course, the day to day chains with carabinners. We were doing, you do overhead presses with dumbbells. I do. Yeah. Okay. Do you find like when you get up to the heavier weights, it's going to pain in the ass to lift them up? You know what? I'm just getting strong again on them. Because I stopped pushing that exercise after I tore my shoulder. And now I'm, I'm, it used to be my strongest exercise. And now I'm very weak with it. Like, I'll kick up the 75s and I'll actually fail, you know, like I get to the point where like, it's not just, usually if I kicked up the 75s, I go until it feels good and then I stop, you know, and I go heavier. Now I'll actually fail on the 75s. So I'm not that strong on shoulders at the moment, but they're coming back. We did a thing the reason I say the catch gets, yeah, the kick up could be the pain in the ass. Once you get, like when you get to 100, that's pain. Yeah. Yeah. And we just took, there was a machine that just, that just presented itself. Okay. It took those lazy chains, connected in the top part of the frame, connected the other, and the lazy chains to the handles of the dumbbells. And they were just resting right here. Yeah. So you just, you literally just grab one, grab the other, lift when you're done. Just let go. That's cool. I like that. Yeah. And for, like for us, we were using different weights. So we didn't want to flip it around. We ended up just letting Derek use the hundreds. Okay. Yeah. But like for you, like you'd, you know, go to kick it up probably with the lighter ones. And we need to have your ones instead of that. Yeah. Because that, I have this, I mean, that's the, that's the part that always, and I, not going on wood, that always kind of concerns me is that I'm going to like, hurt myself with the kick up. Because it'd be so fucking awkward, you know, like, getting one up, and then like trying to stay on the bench, just falling on my ass a couple times doing that. Yeah. So, there's a ton of little things you can do. And I carry all these things into my bag. Literally, they're in my, um, it's in my book. One of my frequently asked questions is, what's in your gym bag? Yes. I have all this shit in there that allows me to like modify things, change the loading curve, add it, you know, make exercise, safe, you're easier to do for a muscle around. What have you? That's even in gym. I pump it. Yeah. That's even too big. I've seen you pull a couple things out of there. The bag of tricks, the little, the driver bag. Ha ha ha. Hey, what's going on, guys? Thanks for watching another podcast here. Think Big Bodybuilding Media. And thank you to our great sponsor, Trunutrition.com for making this all possible. Trunutrition.com is owned by Dante Trudeau, the creator of DC training. You wanted to create a supplement company that offered high quality third-party test and supplements at a fair price. High quality protein powders, just about every type you could think of. Huge variety of flavors, plus health and performance supplements. Check them out, Trunutrition.com. And hey, if you use our code, advice is, you directly support our podcasting. Thanks, guys. Let's get back to the program. And I actually have duct tape in my motorcycle, so I'm good to go, man. Yeah, you do. You don't have to have that. Yeah. So, alright, let's see what else we got here. Reverse ability. That just means that you can be trained. Basically, is that if you stop the training, the adaptations will reverse. But interestingly enough, they don't, this is kind of, this is the whole of the topic, is that you don't have to be trained. This is kind of, this is the whole of the topic, is that you don't, there's possibly a training effect on prints and satellite cell, residents in muscle cells such that muscle memory, and of course there's an epigenic effect that probably is in play here as well, so that the reverse ability isn't complete. So, you start training, you train for five years, you stop training, there's a possibility you have some muscle memory that will mean you haven't really completely reversed back to your starting spot, because you've been previously trained. Yeah. So, that's just basically, if you don't use it, you lose it, but people hold on to muscle mass better than they think, I think, many times, kind of depends on what you're doing, and you can maintain muscle mass on a much reduced training volume, as long as you keep the effort level high, and training is hard. So, there's that, see what else? Oh, and periodization. So, that's sometimes people toss that in. So, that's what I do with progressive blasts and intensive cruises. That's what people get, like, all up in arms with, sometimes, like macro and mesalcycles and all this crazy shit, and people get lost in trying to periodize their training, when they're kind of, I think, in many cases getting the cart before the horse, because if you set yourself up on some sort of a linear periodization scheme, where you have a planned macro cycle that's going to last eight weeks, come hell or high water, and you're six weeks into it, and you're a broken down wreck, and you don't pay attention and auto-regulate and drop things back, or move towards just go to the end part of your macro cycle, which would be some sort of a d-load. Then you're just not training smart. You're not training in tune with what your body's presenting to you. So, periodization is super important. That's what there's tons of ways to do that, but it is important because hell, you can just just from taking time off and coming back, you can get a lot better than what you were, especially having done that before. And I've talked about that with people that have done or did you training, they have the intense cruise, it's the first time they've ever done a d-load probably. They come back afterwards and they're just like, holy shit, what happened here. Yeah, they've never done that. So, those are the basic, but those are the training principles upon all this shit is built. Really, those are the ingredients that people are throwing into the training program, and the pie that they have. I just wanted to throw that out as we can even refer to this. People will ask questions that are kind of answered and just understanding these basic. So, the other thing I kind of alluded to it is that the notion of intensity is a semantic issue in the bro's, the bro's science world, or the bro's versus the scientists. People say intensity, and like high intensity training. Right? And that for the average person, and for most people who haven't had any exercise science, they just think that means training really hard. You have a mental intensity, and that's one way to look at it. In the exercise science world, that term is reserved specifically in the context of resistance exercise for the low that you're using, almost always as a percentage of your one-ret max. Okay, so if you're using 80% of your one-ret max, that's more intense than 70% of your one-ret max. I see. So, if you see a study where they did like high reps, and it'll say low intensity, if they even put in the title low intensity versus high intensity, or this is exercise, creates equal hypertrophic gains, as long as sets are taken to a momentary muscular. So, momentary muscular failure. All that means that they test it, the low load versus the high load. And they use 50% or 30% or some smaller percentage of the one-ret max. So, in, and this is what John uses in his programs, and this is the term that people talk about in the context of effective reps, is effort level, or what your average person, the lay person, think of as intensity, or can be quantified subjectively as RPE, rating of perceived exertion, or reps in reserve. How many reps did you leave in the tank? So, how hard was the set? And that's it. So, when someone says that was really intense, if you were like, in, like, you know, data from Star Trek, and automaton, you say, well, no, it wasn't actually. That was, you know, that would-o-maker was not very intense, because you use 65% of your one-ret max. But it was a hell of a fucking set, because the reps in reserve was nothing, and your RPE was a max of 10 on a zero to 10 scale. So, effort level was off the chain. Yeah. But the intensity, if you're quantifying that from a programmatic standpoint, from an exercise scientist standpoint, what Olympic weightlifter, weightlifting coach might say, was not very high, because it was a low percentage of your max load, you lift for that particular exercise. I didn't know that. It's, yeah. And people don't, because no one-people don't bring it up. And I've seen that, like, when everyone else going through school, and I used to like cringe all the time when I see people get confused with the intensity thing, and it's a weird thing, people don't delineate those. It's so simple. And it's not like rocket science to see how the definition's differ. You know, it's not like really complicated thing, but it just doesn't get clarified. So, you know, it's just sort of almost like a misunderstanding that is completely unnecessary, I think. Yeah. So, that's kind of an important. So, you can do a low intensity in terms of 1 percentage, 1 rep max set that is a high maximal RPE, zero reps in reserve, you take an momentary muscular failure. So, the exercise science definition of intensity was suggested that's a low intensity set, because the load was low. But someone watching that set, let's say it's a widow maker, would never say you don't train intensely. So, the high intensity training thing is interesting, with Mike Menter and Mike, because he intensity there is effort. Yeah. And I don't think it is, sometimes he would go pretty heavy on the loads. I don't know enough about HIT and the other. It's definitely not light training. Right. You're going to be moving big loads. So, it's high intensity in terms of percent, 1 rep max, and it's high intensity in terms of effort level. But, so that is kind of confusing for people too, I think. He doesn't have people do, and you've looked at this more than I have probably as of what he specifically has said, but you don't typically go over sets of 20, I don't think, in HIT. You know what? I don't know enough to say, but from what I understand what I have seen, it didn't seem like it. Yeah. Yeah. But intensity and how hard do you train? Yeah. Intrating tensile. So, but in the extra science world, that's just a tremendous reserve. Just for the percent 100 max, simple as that. It's just a mathematical thing. So, and the other thing that's interesting, I just thought I'd toss out, is that volume, and this is one of the criticisms that's been, just one of the pieces of the puzzle that's a little bit weird. And I'll kind of explain why is when they've done analyses showing that there's a dose response relationship between volume of training and muscle growth. It's pretty clear there's something there, obviously, you know, if you just do one set, you might get nothing as far as muscle growth. And if you do, you know, if you're trying to do 30 sets, you're probably going to be doing too much. Right. And in between, there's going to be some incremental increase in muscle growth as you add more sets. So, in order to do that cross-sectional analysis or a meta-analysis, you've got to codify all the studies that you have. And so you can kind of equate them. So, someone so does, you know, bench presses, someone's another study does machine presses. Another study, you know, rotates among three incline and flat and decline. You know, so the exercise programs are all over the place. Replication is not even something people think about. Most of they're doing just straight sets. So, but in mostly those sets are quote unquote taken to failure, which is a totally subjective thing. But what happens is that in order to sort of equate those, if they're looking at the number and they're going to measure the difference in size of the triceps, the studies will just say any exercise where the triceps is significantly involved, like any pressing exercise or an isolation exercise. And overhead press and incline press, the decline press, the chest press of any sort counts as one set. That's very often been the case in terms of counting sets. But we know that if five sets of bench press, five sets of an incline press, are not the same as five sets of a rope trice set press down. In terms of the stimulus, that's applied to the triceps. So, if you start equating those things, you immediately have a measurement error issue. Basically, because you're not doing a, it's kind of the only way to get around it to some degree, unless you just count compound exercises a half a set, which can be done too. You still come up with the same answer. But that's one of the things that is important to look at in studies where people, if you want to dig in on that volume, is the main driver of muscle growth idea, is if you're looking at, for instance, the triceps, and half the sets that are counted as triceps, that's, we're not triceps isolation exercises. Then you've got an issue, especially, especially if, as body voters know, you're doing a chest press to train the chest. Yeah. And you're intentionally not training the triceps. So, if you're, if you're doing it in my mind, if you're doing a good job as a body builder, and you chose it a chest press to train the chest, then you have a good and mind muscle connection. And you're intentionally not coming close to failure in terms of what the triceps can do. Yeah. The triceps are getting fatigued, they're not the weak link. You've taken them out of the exercise, and if that's the case, then you probably shouldn't be doing a chest press, train your chest. Because it's now a tricep exercise. So, that's the thing that's sort of, it's a contradiction in, in a certain sense, because that level of, this is where the, the bros, the guys, the trenches, are kind of a step ahead of the exercise scientists, because in order to, if you want to come up with a way to count the number of sets, in terms of accounting the volume, you would, ideally, you wouldn't count those triceps sets. Or you, you'd count them at the half a set or something, but you'd consider the fact that if someone's doing a chest press, it's for the chest. Whereas if you count that as, if someone does a really good job, so here's what could happen. Imagine the scenario you've got one person who just, they're, they just train whatever they do, the chest press, it looks the same, but it's just, they're just a triceps and a deltpressor. They don't get shit for growth in their chest. So all those chest presses are really strong, they're really strong stimuli for their triceps. And the other person does six sets of chest press and six, the three sets of triceps, and they do a great job of creating a nice, mind-muscle connection in the chest, and their triceps don't get anything from those six sets of chest press, to each of inclined decline and flat, something like that, let's say. So the one person does nine sets that are really pretty good sets for the triceps, and the other person does three, and maybe the equivalent of a couple extras, because they do get some tricep work, but they do a great job of not using the triceps. Those are completely different stimuli. Oh yeah. One's nice, that's the other one's four and a half sets or something like that. Half of volume, but on paper, if you count them all as triceps, that's nine sets, either way. And you're actually, so what you find then is the person who's doing a good job of making the chest press into a chest targeting exercise is not going to get good growth as good a growth in their triceps. If those three sets of triceps are suboptimal in terms of volume for producing growth in the triceps, because they're only doing three sets. And you can't compare the nine sets with the person who just drives with their arms on everything with the guy who's doing. So the better bodybuilder might end up having, is basically undergoing a completely different stimulus in terms of the triceps. If that's where you measure the muscle growth, that's an easy place to do it because it's on the arm. So that's something to consider that's kind of the important, when just looking at training volume is that in those studies, they just look at the number of sets. And how often, let me just ask you the how often do you do cluster sets or drop sets or rest or force dress? Those sorts of things and you're training. I'd say semi-frequently. So my frequently, like every other workout maybe? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, say so. It's not going to be for everything. So maybe let's say our training legs and it where hamstring focused, I may do hamstring curls might end up being some type of a intensified set. For like a top set, right? Right. So that's the other thing that doesn't get included that people very, very often do in these, in the scientific studies, is they typically just use straight sets for the sake of simplicity. Yeah. But how to heck when you do a rest-pause set and you get 12, 4 and 3 reps, you get 19 reps. How to help you quake that to someone who did 10 reps and 9 reps and 2 straight sets? Yeah. Yeah, you can't. I mean, it's totally different animal. So you only, you only comparing straight sets in that most of these studies, whereas most people are doing some sort of cluster set or drop sets. And there's various studies that have investigated those. So the mind muscle connection in terms of how people are performing the exercises compound versus isolation is a source of fuzziness in terms of set counting. And then in terms of external validity, we've got the issue that people don't just do straight sets. Some many people do, but many people are doing all those sorts of intensifiers intentionally, because there's a stronger stimulus that comes from that. So how do you know, like, let's say you do 10 sets that are straight sets, and two of the things you do are cluster sets. Okay. Yeah, and so those 10 sets kind of get you to do. You're building up the accumulated stimulus of a workout. And what really is that makes that particular workout, and overload was the fact that you went beyond failure in some way, shape, or form, doing those cluster sets or those drop sets. So 12 sets, straight sets wouldn't have done anything. It's only those cluster sets. It's only the drops that made the difference. That's the driver with sort of a cake of those 10 straight sets. It's the icing that made the cake taste so good and made it a stimulus that produced muscle growth. So though that's the thing that's kind of hard to think about, because how do you count those? Two cluster sets, like two rest-possed, and these three rest-possets? I don't know, that's probably worth at least three sets, but the reps are going to be half as much or less than half, in terms of total reps. What about the effective reps? And how many effective reps do we count? Is it just the last five? Are all the reps effective on the second and third failure point of a rest-posset? I would say so. So you do a rest-posset that's 12, 4, and 3. Do you then get two effective reps on the first and then 4, and 3, so that's nine effective reps? So how many sets do you have to do to get nine effective reps that you do straight sets? So that's a little bit, it's confusing, but it's worth considering because the effort level and what creates the overload stimulus is really what we want to quantify by looking at training volume. And it's a known, it's not like this exercise scientists who do this work, don't know this, but it's a known over-centralification. It's a known potential for lack of precision in quantifying training volume because you're just doing straight sets like that. And that's kind of the only way to get around it. And that's why when everyone jumped on Brad Shonefeld's study with showing that you really high levels of training volume produce greater muscle growth, he was literally, he wasn't saying anyone would you go out and train that way, necessarily, but literally just was showing a proof of concepts. So that's what the exercise science is just trying to show that there is a relationship between volume and muscle growth, just some degree. But it can't really, unless you start comparing rest-pause sets on top of straight sets and all the complexities. And the way like John does training, I mean, or the way you do fortitude training, like I've never seen any, there are a few out there, but there's no study that's looked at fortitude training where people are doing straight sets in the six to twelve range, a fortitude training style muscle round, and then high rep pump sets that are auto-regulated. We know that auto-regulation helps in terms of programs. We know that plus for sets can be advantageous. We know that heavy training gets the job done. So you've got all these combination of things that all the individual studies have shown, there's some effectiveness there. But they don't get tested all in one in one particular study, because you don't know what's creating the overall effect. You compare a straight set program versus fortitude training program. Is it the muscle rounds that may, let's say, that fortitude training is better, just for the sake of argument. Is it the muscle rounds that did it? Is it the fact that they could auto-regulate the training stimulus, and how they do pump sets? Yeah. What's the deciding factor? It's not isolated. So to some degree, unless you just have, unless you can just come in near thousands of people and force them to do just resistance training study again, again, again, over and over, you're never going to be able to tease apart all of those particular aspects, because we're testing humans here. But the individual pieces can be teased apart. And say, ah, that's a good ingredient. Cluster sets are a good ingredient. Auto-regulation is a good ingredient. Higher rep sets take an effelure. That's a good ingredient. But testing them at all once doesn't allow you to tell what actually worked, but the other studies, just they just point in the direction of those are the good ingredients. Volume that's high enough to produce an overload. That's a good ingredient. You've got to do enough. So the studies can't be taken literally, so to speak, to use sort of the lay terminology, because what is actually done is so different from what's done in the studies when you combine all those sorts of things that they're just not the same. But that doesn't mean the studies are worthless. So anyway, that's the training volume thing, which is a little bit of a, it's been a point of contention in the science, you nerdy body building. We're old about like, what does that really mean? And the intensity thing is just worth saying, because you hadn't even heard that. Yeah, no, yeah. I see, I see arguments all the time and people don't know what they're, they'll literally say, no, this is what intensity is. It's like, no, this is what it is. And they just argue without trying to clarify, well, there's two different ways it's used. There's two meanings to the word. Yeah. Yeah. So we did have a question too. That we had a question from Dallas. Oh, the one earlier in the week. Yes. So last week. He said, and I know you answered him over at the, the board at the group. I should say, for Think Biggen and advice is radio. But I wanted to ask you here because I thought this was a, do you mind if we, do open it that one for a minute? Yeah. All right, cool. Because I thought, yeah, people would get a kick out of it here. He says, I'll start by saying, I've been listening to the podcast for several months now. And love the information that's being put out. I stumbled upon advice as radio after reading Scott Stevenson's Beer on body building book. Yeah, body building coach book. However, I've never asked a question. Let's see. Scott, one for next week. Okay, here's the question. My question is for Scott Biggen and Scott Stevenson to discuss potentially using Widowmakers as a tool to train your CNS. I have a gym partner who, to me, looks like he half asses his sets. But he says he hits failure. His bar speed barely changes and then he racks it after listening to last week's episode. I thought about utilizing Widowmakers to train his CNS to push him further into his sets. Any thoughts would be greatly appreciated. Thank you. And thanks for watching Dallas. Yes. That's a good question to the great question. So actually, I can, I can address that. I'm a little different than I did when I answered on the on the on the Facebook page. With the notion of specificity of training. So if we're going to train the CNS to get better at those grinder reps, where bar speed slows down, where you're really look like he's, he's pushing, you're pushing very, very hard. You have to have practice at that. You have to actually do those reps often enough. To then expose the nervous system to that level of effort so they can get better at it. And you can learn how to do it. Yeah. So you can imagine someone who, like, let's say they, they finally get motivated to do like a really hard rep, where otherwise they would react. And this time, they get to that point and they just hold their breath. They do have Al Salva and they close their eyes and they just, and they're squatting, let's say, and they just push up and they literally almost fall on their ass. Because they've never tried that hard before. So the next time they come back, the next workout when they're doing the widow maker or another set like that, this time they realize I should probably keep my eyes open. You know, maybe a little bit of breathing at the bottom, you know, bust out at the bottom, but exhale on the way up and they, they figure out a better strategy. Yeah. And then they realize, you know, maybe they rack it after one really tough rep like that. And they were like, you know, I probably could have done another one like that. So the next week they come in and this is what I think Dallas was kind of getting at is that over time, calling those sets widow makers, where you can rest as long as you want, and then expose yourself to those, those grinder reps where you rest five seconds. Don't put the bar down, sets on a squat. And you get practice at doing that. You would get, you get better at it. You get used to, there'll be a, like a true CNS motor learning effect. Just learning how to execute the skill of staying upright while you're pushing that hard, not closing your eyes, what's doing through breathing, knowing like you need to keep your back arch. So you don't let your back bow, which a lot of people do when those last reps when they get low back fatigue. So all those things we come into place, you have internal mental cues that are being involved, and just learning how to activate and disinhibit during those high effort sets. I have to reps at the end of a set is something that we come with practice. Then there's the psychological effect of knowing that you're not going to die, that you're going to make it through. Some people can get kind of a claustrophobic feeling too when you're breathing that hard. Yeah. And you think like, you know, I just have to get out of this, like let me free, like let me out from the bar, like there's kind of a panic-y type of thing. And you get used to that, you're not going to die. Yeah. Yeah. And then like you can eat, like I, that's one of the things when I visualize, and this is a psychological phenomenon, is I will visualize the feeling that I have, where the vision, you know, distance really isn't a factor in my vision, it sort of everything's kind of blurry. You can feel how it hurts, where it hurts, what your motivation is to drive the way. All those aspects of that, that really like the most uncomfortable part of the set, you just see it in your mind's eye. Yeah. You get used to it. So yeah, you, by just calling those straight sets, widow makers, so that it's training partner would like, have to practice the hard grinding reps like that, is a way to get that practice in, but first and foremost, and this is what I did say on the board. So it's a matter of having the practice of specificity of training would take effect, and you get better at those. But if he's not motivated to do that in the first place, so he says, this is my failure, and like that rep is just the same speed, and looks just as effortful as the first rep, and that for him is failure, then he's never going to get the practice. Yeah. I'm going to be able to learn how to do those, because he's never going to be driven psychologically to push himself to that level. So if the motivation isn't there, it's not going to happen. And I, I mentioned the funny story, I think I told here before, I told it a few times. So when I was in back in Arizona, I was, I had my gym, and I've been doing, this is before fortitude training, and I've been doing DC training, and I was doing some other things, and I decided I'm going to come back to DC training. And the main trainer, like the first trainer at my gym, is the first guy that we had, he's got the entire time, Andrews is the main great guy. He wanted the train with me, because he's like, I don't want to put on a size. He's either like, I want to put on size, and then he's like an arm too fat, and he's always didn't really what he wanted. He couldn't set down a goal in track after it. So he was always jumping from one thing to another. But he figured, like, if he came on with me, like, I was going to train at a time when the gym was empty, when he wouldn't have clients normally, we could train together. Three times a week, DC training two way split, no problem. We can do that. So we start off with training lower body, the first day. And we decided we're going to do Smith squats, was the exercise for that day, and I do my heavy set. He does his heavy set, and then it's time for the widowmaker. Okay. So, you know, I explained to him like, how would a maker, you know, goes, why it's called a widowmaker, that if someone, if you were married, you know, someone's thinking, you're probably going to kill yourself, and you're going to make a widow out of your wife, because you're going to die at the end of the set. Like, this is it. Like, this is your last breath. Yeah, yeah. And I do my widowmaker, and, you know, I get done, I kind of climb out from under the bar, and I'm, you know, panting and breathing, everything like that. And he's sitting there on the bench in front of the Smith machine. And so I kind of look up, and I look over to him, and he's not really looking at me. And I'm like, what do you want? Oh, man. Like, what do you want in the bar? Like how much weight? And he's like, I don't want to do that. Yeah. I'm like, I'm like, what? He's like, I'm not going to do that. I don't want to do those. I'm not doing that. I'm like, yeah. Like, okay. A problem? Yeah. So that was it. Like, that was the end of the workout. He's like, I'm not doing this. Yeah. I don't want to try that on. I just didn't want to do it. He can't blame him. Which was great. Because then I didn't have someone lolligagging, you know, it's sandbagging all the way. And fake it. Yeah. Making excuses for not showing up or who knows what. So, but he just wasn't going to do it. What do maker? He just wasn't. He knew, like, because he would see how I do them. And he knew that what he would do would. I hit the safest way because it sounds. He could just, you're a panel in comparison. Yeah. Yeah. And what do you do the same? No, he could just, you wouldn't be able to do it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Just wanted to do that, you know. So, and he just admitted it. Like he doesn't want to train that way. So, he would never get good at those because he would never do them. Right. And he didn't want to do it. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, the thing, it's kind of tough. The thing that, like, I'm just thinking of a solution for Dallas, that's training partner. And you don't, you know, doing this on all exercises is not convenient or practical. But one thing you can do, if you want to get a little extra stimulus and personal trainers do this a good bit. And it's a way to sort of trick people in the getting extra reps and even getting used to pushing past a failure point is to basically do four straps. Okay. But add those straps in before they really reach failure. Oh, really? Yeah. So, you're stronger on an eccentric than you're on a concentric. Yeah. So, lower, more weight than you can lift. And, I mean, you could literally, if someone completely pulled the weight up, you can go to failure. And most people could do two or three reps, depending on the exercise. With controlled negatives only, with no effort whatsoever, literally the barx just comes up and then you do it just to control negative. So, let's say someone's doing a weight that could do like 12 times and the 13th rep they'd hit failure. What a person's trainer's will do is you get to like 10 or 11 and they start helping. So, what that means is then they get 15 reps, let's say. And you assisted on the concentric. So, you made it a little bit easier. They never really reached through because failure is almost always a concentric failure. Yeah. Unless someone's, you ever once in a while like, maybe they rest at the top, you know. And then they try to get another rep and it just like, way too much and they just kind of give out. They have a nervous system collapse. But it's almost always failure like the bottom because it can't concentrically move the weight or there's somewhere in the rep. You avoid the concentric failure but you give a little bit of assistance so they get, you know, one or two reps shy of failure, concentrically. But you added then three or four reps that are eccentric. The lowering which they can do because you're stronger that way and the energetic, the metabolic stress or the metabolic demand of eccentric is much less than concentrics. So, take much at all the weight. You can do that repeatedly again and again and again. So, you one way to get a look and what that would do then for his training partner. If he's trying to get him to learn to kind of stay in that zone is you get ten and you give a little assistance. It's not a failure rep yet but you give a little bit of assistance and then you just give incrementally more and more assistance. So he's spent, so he has five reps that are short of true failure that are within his training effort level like what he's willing to do. So instead of having one of those where he's like at his max effort that he's willing to give, he has five because you're assisting him. Plus, you're adding those eccentric which is going to create more stimulus. It's going to create more muscle, soreness as well. But it also will because the repeat is about effect prepping for training hard in the future so you won't get really sore. So that thing you can do is just give a little help. That's a way that's one real practical reason why having a training partner or a personal trainer there can kind of supplant your lack of motivation. In a way, really don't like the failure reps or they're not safe to do. You could add on basically four straps. But not really like you read someone like you asked like I want to do a four strap. I haven't done this for a long time, but it's happened to many times. So you asked for a four strap, just give me a little help and they just want to fucking kill you. So little you're like here and it's like, we don't want to make it a 10 second rep. Just keep the bar moving at a normal speed but help me out. They just like, they're just like, okay, now the bar is going back down. You need to help me more. Right. You have people you before? Oh yeah, of course. What are you doing? Trying to kill me. So you don't want that in this situation because that's going to that actually would create a lack of that doesn't create a lack that creates a lack of the trust. Yeah, the person's like, are they really watching out for me? Yeah, anymore, I don't ever do. I don't really do any kind of spotting like I don't ask for help. I just don't, you know, it's not either. I want people to stay away. I see their hands coming toward it, you know, and I would rather just do it myself. And because I usually train myself anyway, you know what I mean? And I can take it there as far as I need to and if, you know, I don't know. Right. I had a guy, this was a long time ago and I was doing an overhead press bar, but overhead press in a overhead press bench. And I was warming up and I think I was, I was pretty strong the time I was, I'm able to go to like two and a quarter or something like that. Yeah. So I did 135 and I think I did 185 and I'm literally just kind of repping out and I see in the mirror in front of me. I see him run up and he's like just like, it gets up on the platform. He's, he wants to spot me and I'm just, I'm bringing the, I'm, this is a little warm up set. So I'm not really strong. It's not wanting to grab the bar. Yeah. And he, I was like, no, no, I got it. This is a warm up set. And he keeps on putting his hand near the bar and he's getting, like he's really close to the bar. And I'm like, please move your hands from the bar. Yeah. Yeah. Basically, I think I said, would you go away? Look, look, look, look, get out of here. And then I went to two and a quarter and the guy, he couldn't get out of his head. Like, so it was a nice intention. He ran over and he went to jump up on the platform and he tripped and he fell into the bar and knocked it into my head. Oh shit. Almost fucking up. And I'm like, that's why I didn't want you to help me. So please, let me do this by myself if you would. But it was like, yeah, so you don't know when someone comes out of nowhere. What they're going to do or where they're at or if they're going to be too much help or Yeah. They don't know what to do. So you got to be able to have a ton of dumbbell press. He climbed dumbbell press. Yeah. So when tripped, running up on me when I was going to failure. And I had, I don't know, the 120 something over a hundred pounds, big, big dumbbell. And then I hit my elbow. The dumbbell went like that and fell onto my head. Oh my god. Because they're running up. A lot of people run into you in the gym. This is twice in 40 years. Okay. Not that often. Because I can add it for a while. Yeah. Yeah. Those were the 20 times I think that's ever happened, I think. I remember I wasn't good at spotting Shelby when he didn't really want spots very often. But there was occasionally a time that he would want some type of assistance. Just like early on, I remember I wasn't good at it. Because I was, I had really looked up to him a lot. And so I was like really nervous. Like I wasn't going to do a good job at it. And so I was not, I remember that's the, that's the one time I can think of. Or like I was not a good spotter at that point. Yeah. I think the way, like kind of a mindset to have as a spotter is you want to make sure the person's safe. But you actually want to make it harder for them. Yeah. That's the little point is that you can take the set further than he would without a spotter because you have the safety net of the spotter in place. Sure. Sure. So when you're watching them and they're struggling, you know, you don't like just pull the bar up right away. You're not there to like make it easier. They're to make it harder and let them struggle. So you almost want to be kind of a, have a little bit of a task masters mentality like. Sure. I'm going to, I'm going to, we're going to wreck you in this set. I'm going to make sure you get wrecked. But I'm going to make sure you're safe while we get you wrecked. Yeah. And then that, that works out most of the time. So there was a, by time, this was a, this was a long while ago, but there was a, went down to no golly, Mexico. Oh, how are they? Okay. So people that there's a friend of mine had some friends who were competing in this meet. And they had a guest, Lifter there. And I forget the guy's name. He at the time was in the running for the worlds. He was one of the best bench pressures in the world. He, he bench pressed over 700 pounds. He was going for a meet. Going for like 720, I think. Mm-hmm. And an upcoming meet. And so we went to this gym and he was there. And there's 20 powerlifters in this meet. And everyone's so intimidated by him. Mm-hmm. Because he's just, fuck a gigantic guy. He's really well known. I wish I could remember his name. But he was sort of in the running for a while. And I just walked up to him and just said, I just introduced myself and started talking with him. Because what I noticed was he was like trying to put his suit on and he was, he was managing chalk. And all this, and no one was helping him out. And there's a little bit of a language barrier there too. Yeah. This was in Mexico. And so I'm just chatting with him. All the powerlifters were like scared of him or they were intimidated by him. And like, I didn't know. I just wanted to learn from him. So I ended up helping him get his bench shirt on and actually in a spotting him. Okay. For his, for his attempts. And I remember this because I'm like, it's one of the first and only times when they had spotters on the side. Yeah. But it's first attempt was 675. Wow. And it wasn't a great bench for spotting. And I'm like, if something happens, I can't pull this weight off him. There's no way I can, from that angle, pull 675. He's spotting. Yeah. I don't know what I'm, I'm going to have to be as, you know, quick on the draws I possibly can. Yeah. And I remember it was a hot day. There's no air conditioning in his summertime and air is actually in Mexico. So even further south. Yeah. I was sweating. You know, I'm trying not to sweat on him while he's getting ready. Right. And he said, watch me close. And I remember he brought the bar down. And he did a full pause. And he exploded with the bar so fast. I literally almost reflexively could not pull my hands out of the way. Oh, shit. He's running in the bar. I literally almost hit the bar with my hands. Yeah. Yeah. But the 675 came up. It was like, like, literally like that. It was like, holy shit. It was like a half a second for the whole. Wow. Wow. Amazing. And then he went to the set and our 705, which is part of, this is like part of his training. Yeah. Because this is one of his, he planned this for one of his heavy days. I think. Okay. Before I'm leading into the meat. So. I was a little bit more in tune of like how our speed Kennedy with the 705. But I was, I remember that because you reminded me, it was like, I was like, I was like, don't want to fuck this up. You know, I don't want to ruin his app. No, throw him out of his groove, especially with those. It was just like a single ply bench shirt. It wasn't raw. But in the single ply, it's that time. This was close. He was going for the road record. But he still, he throws someone out of the groove on a bench press like that. Those guys are so have to be so precise. You could fuck him up. Like it back to be it. So, yeah. But he trusted me. You know, he's like, he's like, hey, can you spot me? I was kind of the only choice because no one else was talking to him. Yeah. And he looked, he was like, you look like you lifted for a little while. So, right. I got the spotty. Well, you know, I've never done a powerlifting meat. And I don't even bench press. But anyway, yeah, that was kind of cool though to spot it. Someone pressing 700 pounds. Yeah, no kidding. Just to be there, be that close and see it like that, you know? Yeah. It just no like, it's like when you get really big weights on the bar that's heavier than I've only pulled that weight on a deadlift before. I've never like squatted that like on a machine and have that many plates. But I've never had a, I'd never probably then, I think I actually had, but just seeing all that weight on a barbell and the bend in the barbell and just knowing what's there. Yeah. It's like, wow. It's fucking go time. I was amped up. I was like, you know, it's totally psyched just to see this happen. So anyway, you have spotting, good spotting is an art form. Yeah. Yeah. Really, you know, you're part of it. And how much to push them and how they fail. So anyway, we have any more questions to pop up on the, Nope, none, none there today. Yeah, that's about all we had. And we're about an hour over an hour in. So this is probably a good place to wrap it up. I know you got to get out to the gym and get your work done. So, you know, train. Right now. And that case, guys, you know, as as a Dallas had mentioned, check out the b y o v b coach dot com for dot for Scott's book. Be your own bodybuilding coach. And of course, go to fortitude training dot net. Check out the training plan there. And we have a Patreon now. I started a Patreon sketch for Think Bigging. I know. I was as radio. So you guys can check that out. I'll put that down in the show note to anybody's interested in supporting what we're doing. And of course, go to our sponsor true nutrition dot com. Use our coded vices. Scott, as always, it is a pleasure, my friend. My question, man. Have a great work out. I will. Later, brother.

That's the United Babel for 10 minutes in Scott's sake. Hey, here's what you do. Start with a cup. If you don't grow at a cup when you're training. A next question. Simple. Why did this take you guys to not really end the whole basis of my five-minute Babel was keeping me simple. So we're doing, um, it's just body building. No episode number. Even though some people like the episode number, you guys are a few people. There were people. There were against Scott. They were like, what? But don't listen to them. Don't have been an addict. Don't listen to him. Don't let him stop. Don't let him stop you. Don't make him push you down. I like how they even went out of their way to say, like, I'm with Ron. Yeah. I even said I could care. No, you care to part of them. So. They're like, I don't believe him. It's just being nice. Yeah. I'm with Ron. Yeah. That's good. Okay. So what we're doing, we're doing, of course. We got Dusty Hanshaw, Scumming Now, myself, Ron Part Low. Um, like, share, subscribe, comment, ring the bell. Sorry. I did your thing, Dusty. I'm glad you did, because I'm focused on something. So we're good. So okay. He could move his arm. You do the arm thing. Ring the bell. Okay. Dusty's busy. He's got text to do stuff with your other things. I like how he does. I like how he does. I like how Dusty, he likes ringing the bell, because that's his thing. But he's not like emotionally attached to it. He's like, I don't care you do it today. You know, like some guys would feel like they got their toes stepped on. It was just not. You know, I don't have toes. We're good. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, and yes, do all those things actually. The like share, subscribe, comment, all that stuff actually does help. Scott shows us the back end of episode where we get more engagement on, you know, and it makes a big difference. Don't say I show you the back end. It's always about the back end. It goes like the back end. Remember there's a lot of the depth and thickness back there. Yeah, but we didn't know. Wait. So definitely, you know, and definitely helps. So we appreciate it. And also two thanks to mutant for not only, you know, working with Dusty and I, but also now working with Dusty. And we're going to do this. Dusty, I and Scott as supporters of the show. And they want to show the show. Do they get like a tax credit for doing all this stuff, especially in the It's people or how does that work? Yeah, there's like, they're probably, you probably pitched it to the account. Be creative. This one of you. I don't actually, I don't trust it. I don't actually want this to cost me money. Let's make this some kind of write off. Yeah. You got those. Yeah. That is listed as a charity on his on his taxes. Yeah. And make sense really. These four guys are doing nothing if we didn't help them. So yeah. Yeah, exactly. So so yeah, thanks to mutant. And of course, Dusty and I have codes. So if you want to go on IM mutant.com website and order your shit. Big Ron 20 and Dusty 20. And I thought about something. Ron, and this is yes, it's all about fairness. Okay, I thought the whole world was about being fair now. So here, if you live in Canada, use Ron's code. If you live in the United States. I knew it. I knew it. Exactly where that was going. No, why Ron, you can have all the Canadian orders. All 26. How about, how about, how about, how about, even if Dusty just took like the Eastern seaboard. Yeah. He would probably still, you know, fine. I'll take New York and California. All right, the right. There we go. Yeah. Okay. You know, we're not going to use the electoral college. We're just going to, you just take those two states and you'll rule the world. Okay, lesson. We'll keep it fair. Only the states that truly are red. Okay. Let's all. Okay, perfect. Moving on. Sure. I think Dusty and Truly. Oh, I go Dusty doesn't, he doesn't like get political, but he'll just like drop a nugget in and then walk away. Yeah. It's like remind people. It's like just like, stir remind people where he stands. And then he just walks away. It doesn't make a big deal out of it. It is for they can, but, you know, as because you're, you know, if I can live real. But whatever. Yeah. I went to Costco the next day and I picked up the chicken I needed and it was all good. Did you, did you guys happen to listen to the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the just ocean connection last. Um, that he got just had with Aaron Rogers. No. Um, so I, I watched. Uh, there's, you know, they put out those highlight clips. Yeah. Yeah. I watched one of the highlight clips. And I saw one where he tells him to vote Republican. Yes. So that was it. He was like, he goes, well, how do we solve that? He was Republican. And he did that. He just like walked it off and then he came back and he's like, well, over a million people changed from Democrat to Republican this year. So yeah, like, as a fat, I was dying. But that interview. Okay. I always liked Aaron Rogers, but every time he speaks, I like him more. Oh, okay. And you can tell that they're actually friends because at one point I realize that they forgot they were doing a show. And they're just talking. I live, I sense with a couple of people that like love Rogan and my friend Daniel was like, this is one of the best Rogan episodes I've ever seen. Oh, I'll have to watch it then. Oh, because it was very chill. Like, you know, nothing breaking happens. But it's a longest I've ever been able to watch a show straight through before I could come back. I was over an hour. One point, which for me, that's a three minute time spent typically. Right. Solid. Yeah. Okay. Check it out. Yeah. You know, I know what you mean. I used to watch Rogan all the time when I worked at the office. So a lot of people watching this program. Yeah. There's a lot of people who can't really. People who are in my job. People who are working right now while they're watching us. Yeah. Exactly. Working hard. Remember when I used to watch Rogan like all day like hundreds of episodes. And, you know, they're good because he's a great interviewer. But then there's like the odd episode where you're like, oh, that was like, really great. And it's usually just because the guest is really cool and is willing to tell the big stories and the inside scoops and you know what I mean? I remember Jake the snake. That episode was fucking nuts. Like I remember watching it and just being like, holy fuck. You know, and dig this for the same reason because Aaron Rogers says things during this interview. I know the NFL was like, mother fucker. Right. No kidding. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Gold. Yeah. Absolutely. Gold plus. You know, typically Rogan makes him a great interviewer. He speaks like 15% of the time. He has his, yes, do their thing. These two were just chatting. They, I look up and look at the screen to see if like the steak and rice and the pizza, the margarita pizza had showed up. And they were just, you know, at our roles. Yeah. Yeah. I like that. And there's also, I really enjoyed a Lex Friedman episode this week. It was, I can't remember the guy's name, but he's a former CIA agent. And he had him on. And he was like pretty liberal with some of the stories he told. Like always surprised at some of the stuff that he was able to say and he felt comfortable saying because you know, he was in the CIA for like years. And you know, like he asked him, Lex asked him, do you think Jeffrey Epstein was in contact with an intelligence agency like Mossad or the CIA or somebody? And he just goes, oh, absolutely. There's no way you have that network of friends and you haven't been reached out to at least reached out to or are in contact whether you know it or not with someone from like a really high level intelligence agency somewhere in the world that it probably concerned with, you know, someone that you're hanging out with or someone that you're doing business with or something that's going on. And he just said that Epstein with his guest list on his airplane and who he hung out with, it was absolutely in contact with somebody, whether it be the CIA or Mossad or you know, there's lots of rumors, right? So just stuff like that, but it was a great interview because he's he talked a lot about like, how much, like, it's it's crazy how, how in depth they're willing to go to get close to someone if they really need to, you know, like you're still like establishing completely fictitious relationships for long periods of time, like stuff like that just really, really crazy what they'll do if they need to, you know, get information from you. I got to hear that one. That's so fascinating. They do that when like, do you remember when the whole bus went down all the pro hormones, like, yeah, very first time. Yeah, of course. So the company that I was with was one of them that got rated. And what was crazy was they were ordering their products for two years. Goes to establishing. Yeah. Just like the role. That's why it's funny when when some of these other companies that got busted over last few years and thought they were getting away with them, like, they don't knock until your fucked. Right. Right. Don't knock. Completely completely fucked. Like, so the idea that you think you're walking out of that cell, I'm going to really go to turn you some of the day. You're fucked. Yeah. Yeah. I know what you mean. You're like, how are you? Pretty no words. I used a lot of them. Yeah. I can say not to say everything. Yeah. I know. How's the week been generally what's the news with dusty? The week has been crazy because now, you know, our travel schedule, which we are discussed is kicked up. So I've got my flights for England set, the flights for Dubai set. The house is going to be done on the 29th. I got Rogan on the 30th and Atlanta. I added a Georgia game in two weeks in South Carolina that I had to go to. I like to just what you what to what you mean, what what you mean in a Georgia game. Oh, in the south, you say Georgia, that just means football immediately. Right. You're a university like you're going to come over what? Yes, but not Georgia Tech. I can't say, oh, it wasn't in the camera. It looks like Bulldogs. Okay. Yes, sir. So what's that? During the state. Like what's it? I know there's so many schools. What's it? What's this school called? Just have to say Georgia and you're all say Georgia. But no, it's, you know, there's just some little team that won the National Championship last year. This is an interesting fact. You'll like Ron. So Georgia's always been good. Yeah, but Alabama is better. Just they win. They just win just the way it is. And the coach of Alabama actually is protege is the coach of Georgia. So when I moved to the south, it's like they freaking lock me in a room and they're like, you need a team. That's how it fucking works down here. If you're going to live here, you need a team. So I did what any man's man would do. What I was like, what team is red and black? My favorite coach. I'm going to have to wear a hat. I'm sure it's a whole thing to match. I got all the, like the red shocks. What am I going to do? That he church green right? Yeah, red shocks. So I could also like I could use navy blue. It's a possibility and there can be some gray, but other than that, all the other teams are out there. Yeah, can't be like an orange and pale blue tone or something like that. That's just not going to work. You know, so I watched a couple games and I really like their defense. Okay. So I was like, all right, that's my team, which someone called front running, but it's red and black. I mean, I hate to point this out, but Ron, you didn't use to be red and black until I can. Anyways, back to the thing. So he is correct. They are cruising along being the second best. The only thing that changed last year was me and then they won. That's not a coincidence. Who's I changed the game? Who's phone is on? I got to ask somebody else. We will get to the other place. We get to love people who say, you know, hey, there's, who's phone's ringing the whole time. Can't turn it on for them. I can't. Okay. I'm just checking. I'm just checking. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. There'd be way more ringing on my. But anyways, so yeah, now I've saved Georgia Bulldogs. They're winning now. And so much so wrong that the cigar bar like they only have a couple of TVs in the section. I like. So I call the head and was like, can I pay and reserve my seats for the game? He was like, uh, sure. So bam, now I reserve seating for the games. You just call the head and pay a little money in your own sense. Just like anywhere else. It's amazing. And that's funny. That's funny. You're like, you're like, you've moved. How long ago did you move? Little over a year. I've changed every year. So he's moved less than a year ago. And it's over a year. It's over over a year. He's over. No, he's built a house. He's got Jack Nicholson seating at the cigar bar for Georgia Bulldog games. There you go. There you go. And so you've like, you're like the king of Kensington already. This is like talking through town. You're just like, strolling down the street like, hey, so. With my boots on with your boots on. Right. There you go. Yeah. Let's hit the team. It's a serious thing. We did the same thing with my friend. We, he came down in for Boston immediately shook him down. He had a little bit more creative way. This is the other U-run Rob. So what he went with was SEC team with hottest chicks. Then he wanted a, what's SEC? It's this is a lot for Canadian. It's just one of the, it's the best. You believe it that. It was like the time like one of the last. It doesn't seem to me. Yes. Yes. Okay. You didn't know. And packed and, and then so what's SEC stand for? It's so feasting conference? Sure. Why not? Fuck if I don't do it. I'm new to this game. Well, it's got to mean something, right? I need to know it. And have to have a happy, it doesn't mean red and black. Remember, I chose a team place on colors. You're trying to get into this. You're fucking everything up here. That's right. He said, all right. hottest chicks. Then he was like, all right, who has a mascot that's problematic and has been banned? And then he was like, I need like a scumbag coach. A real dick bag. He get his sexual scandals or drug. But he was looking for things, right? So he selects Ole Miss. Okay. That's who he goes with. I understood his angles, but then we're watching the game together the other day. And it's the end of the half, okay? They're up 21 math and Detroit, which is a team that just sucks. Okay. You're already up 21 math and usually just let things roll. So there's, they're going for a field goal to get on the board. They're coach right before they kick calls, calls a timeout. Just that's what you do against a great team at the end of fuck them up. Not when you're all ready to die. I looked at Rob and I'm like, you made a good choice. This guy's a dick. He's a dick. Yeah. So that was it. You know, and that's that his selection was much, but much more in depth than mine. You know, that's funny. Who went into like whether the coach was like an asshole. I like that. Yeah, the whole set up. So you think it's, it's interesting. I, I'm interested in your move. You know, I know there's such a huge like the states is like, to me, I see the states as every different like main area, like you got the Midwest and the south and, you know, you know, New York area and you know, I don't know what you call all the stuff. Yeah. But there's like a real like identity that most of the people from that area seem to be like, no, yeah. In what I'm saying, all is it is a religion that everyone believes in. Yeah, it's just, you know, it's crazy. Like this old Jesus thing is questionable for a lot of people football. I fucking was no question. We can, we can agree to disagree on the whole Savior situation, but not on football. So yeah, it's a big thing. Okay. Fun folks. That is funny. Okay. What about Scott? Yeah, your birthday. Yeah. Yeah. It's actually tomorrow. So, but it was that like my birthday. I guess so this is a thing. I didn't know this until Victoria's birthday, which was in July. We had like the birthday week. The week. So it is the week. You get to kind of spread it out a little bit. So it's my, this is my birthday week. Is that what they're doing? What? I don't know. It's okay. Yeah. I guess so. But so we went on sad Friday. Because that's our date day. Yeah, we take the day off. Although I upload a podcast every Friday morning, then we went to the zoo to try to do it. It was fun. We got to see all the animals, giraffes. I saw a fuck. Well, there are three of them. Gorillas. And I swear to God, because I hadn't been to the zoo in a long time. Like those things are so insane. Like I'm wondering, you know, I wonder, I had some pictures. I wonder if I can pull this out. Like literally we're talking like these things look like bodybuilders. Here's a video. But like that thing is insane. Like the muscle on these things is just insane. Here's another shot here. And it's like you're walking around. You're looking at these things. It was kind of like looking at, I can't get the other one to come up. But it's like you're looking at all these animals and animals. And you're like, oh, there's an an eater. And there's a bear. And when you see the gorilla, it's like, oh, my God, I'm looking at a human being. A gigantic human being. And you feel like I shouldn't stare at that. It's like you're staring at a person. It was weird. But with like Ronnie Coleman last. Just hanging down Ronnie Coleman last. Ronnie Coleman Coleman hamstrings glutes like the whole nine yards. So anyway, that was fun. Was good. Yeah, it's a power of genetics. Yeah. Yeah, that's running. You know, yeah, pretty crazy power of genetics. Like, they don't, you know, they don't lift weights. They don't eat much. They don't eat any meat. Yeah. They can. But typically, you know, so it's kind of crazy. They're just sitting there at first, though. You know, and the one was just kind of sitting there, like, just days and like looking off, like he was thinking. And that's, that's the one I saw first and he was facing away. And like I said, you could just see like the lat hang in with that. Like Ronnie Coleman, like lower lat hang. And I was just like, wow, that's some power there. And then a few minutes later, they were playing. But they're playing looked really intense. Like I got to see the like pounding on the chest and like the running at each other really hard. Like it was, it was like, if there was anything in that zoo that was kind of scary, it was the gorillas, man. They were, they were cool. They were cool to look at. So that was fun. If they played with us, we would die. Oh, yeah. Yeah, I think they can. Man, that's. There's, there's so strong. Okay. We have YouTube questions. Oh, no, I. Oh, what did you present? Oh, you present. You bought yourself a birthday present. You bought some of your things. She just got a show. I showed Ron this dusty before. Well, I was logged off of the 72nd time. Yes. Yeah. So I did get myself a birthday present. This is, uh, I always wanted an AK47. Like since I was a little bit. When you absolutely positively got to kill every mother fucker in the room, except a nose substitute. Yeah, so fat. So come on, who knows that movie? Who knows that movie? Come on. Let the listeners, the listeners can report in. So yeah, this is a you go as they call it. You go variation AK. Basically, this one was made in Serbia, former Yugoslavia. And, uh, the, some slight differences from like the Russian ones, the Romanian ones. But this one in particular is known as, we call them here a cranker a crank off. By the way, I should probably make sure it's empty. Don't shoot through the ceiling. I know it was empty, but I wanted to do this part. For everybody else. So this is like a shortened version. It's technically a pistol. Leave it or not. And yeah, it's technically a pistol because the barrel's only 10 inches. Now, the thing is, you don't get to say that very often. Yeah. They don't. You wouldn't see these like like a standard person in the military. Wouldn't be carrying it around. But the guys who would have it would be like the tank guys or like the the chopper guys, the people that needed to have it, like something that was compact, you know, and that's why it has like, I've got the collapse of a brace on it and everything. And I was telling Ron that these were thought of in certain places in the world as like a trophy. Because if you could get one of these as a battlefield pick up, that means that you took out a tank or you know, you took out a chopper or something like that. So you grab that motherfucker. You take that home. That would be one hell of a trophy. But yeah, it's, you know, same technology is like they used in 1947. Like it's very simple. Very few moving parts. I think there might be like a paper clip in there holding it all together. You know, it's a little duct tape. You know, a little paper. Love that. I love that scene and that Lord of War movie with Nicholas Cage where he explains the AK47. Yeah, you can see them. Remember that scene? No. Yeah. You see the movie. Forge steel and plywood. It doesn't break jam or overheat. It will shoot whether it's covered in mud or filled with sand. Yeah, I need to see this. You, you've seen Lord of War where Nicholas Cage is a gun dealer, arms dealer. That's like one of his best movies. It was like, it doesn't have any good movies. Right this time. Yeah, Lord of War, watch that. It's great. I highly recommend that. You see that. It's got to be. No, I didn't see it. Really? Look at what we said about to hang up on us. This is it. Oh, it's like required viewing if you like guns. Okay, sorry. I actually, I actually saved that Ron says shit all the time during the show. And I'm like, oh, yeah, and then I'm like, I don't want to text him. That's weird. I don't remember. Fuck. So I just not just record them all. Ron is thems. There's a couple things I am going to do with this like this thing on the front here. This is called a booster. So it helps to create more back pressure, but you can get like different muscle devices in the thing about pressure. Like the back pressure will help to make sure that the bolt cycles. So it looks like that. So it's it kind of like cuts off some of the power going out, but without that, this thing shoots like three foot fireballs when you pull the trigger, which is kind of cool. Like this motherfucker is loud. Like this is a with the short barrel. There's hardly any barrel before the bullet leaves. So like the dwell time and the powder burning like there will be burning powder that comes out the front of that. So they actually make muscle devices that will accentuate that. Like and make the pop louder and make the flame look bigger. So I'm kind of thinking about getting nice. Just kind of an obnoxious little gun. You know what I'm saying? When are we going to get a video of you shooting this? You know, I work on that. I'll work on that. That's not an answer. What is with you guys? Like how about Tuesday? Of next week. Perfect. We can do that. We can do that. I'll succeed. We'll put it on the next episode. Thanks you. So yeah, this is fun. You know, it's fun. 7.62 39 millimeter. It's a it's nice. It's fun. It's like a really it's a definitely the most powerful gun that I have. That's there's no question. And Victoria's shoot. She's not a fan. She's from Canada. No fence around. The fence is a really modest path Canadian now because he hangs out with me. So we're cool. Yeah. Wow. Success. Ron, you haven't told us what you're doing. You're ready to change the subject. What have you done? What did you do this weekend? The world wants to know. I uh, what did I do this weekend? I just did my thing. My my typical weekend is just work on my phone a lot. Spend as much time at the gym as I can Saturday, like morning, afternoon, you know, be there when it's busy. Um, you know, fixed some equipment, you know, it's made per work. That's sort of shit. And then I got out on the bike. Had a couple of sessions on the bike. Had a good session on the guitar the other night. Had a date night where we got some girls. Yes. And uh, yeah, just a fucking great weekend, you know, snuck an app in here and there. You know, I'm already from Monday morning. Nice. What's a holiday since you're half American so you can relax. Well, yeah, we're open normal hours with the gym. So I'm fascinated with this whole like the idea of a holiday where you get off from work when the holiday is Labor Day. Yes, when you get to work. I thought that this morning, I got to fucking gym and it was slammed. I'm like, oh, Monday to Friday. This is my time. You all assholes have work. Go. Go. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, no, sorry. Yeah. I don't experience holidays. Like, I don't nothing like those all those stat holidays that roll around. You know, all those long weekend Mondays and stuff that doesn't affect anything in my life. Yes, funny. Like, I don't think for any of us. I don't think for any of us. You know, I don't think any of us. Forget. I'll roll into the gym at noon expecting to see the noon crowd. And I see like the Saturday crowd. I'm like, what the fangus is the Saturday crowd here? Oh, right. It's a holiday Monday. Like, I don't even fucking think about it. I find it weird when people will say like, I had someone say that. They shot me a DM. Happy Labor Day. The fuck is that me? Why would you send me that? Well, some people, it's different, you know? They're like, oh, yeah, I get Friday. You know, I get Saturday, Sunday and Monday. Oh, yeah. So they're really back. They're enjoying it. Yeah. Yeah. But it just seemed like a different thing, you know? I got it. If I would have said that to you, it'd be like, Huh, okay. Yeah, I guess. I do have something. I was like, I'm going to get back to work. Okay. Yeah. I was like, I don't know what to do with this. And I'll be rude. I just want to answer. I'll wait. That's rude. That's fine. I think that it says more about Dusty just handling a nice gesture. He just doesn't even know how to handle a nice gesture. Yeah. So it was like, hey, happy Labor Day. And he's like, what was this strange person saying? Probably the things in my direction. Poor member. I don't even open DMs. Not giving you any money. I'm not giving you any money. Go. You're not my son. Oh, yeah. All right. Cool. Okay. We're back. So we got some YouTube questions. I'm sure there's a few or some comments that we got to mention. Or we've got a bunch. We've got a bunch. What about? No, I know, Afro-Grin is more popular up there in Canada, because it's kind of legal still versus here. Yeah. This is the first one we have from Jeremy. He says question for the next podcast. Can you guys discuss Afro-Grin? Uses protocols, side effects, et cetera. I love a fedron. I love a fedron. And that's the other question. I remember somebody else asked us, mate, it was for a different show. I think do you pronounce it a fedron or a fedron? And it sounds like I do the effigrant. You guys do the a fedron. Yes. I don't know which one is right. Feds are here. But yeah, I say a fedron. There's also a fedron. Yeah. Yeah. They think I need to add a little it's the effedron, which is all shit. But yeah, it's not the same. Not the same at all. I love love defedron. In fact, Ron knows when I got a candle, I would load up and bring it back. And I don't know if I'm just saying that out loud. But because I use that my entire competitive career, instead of climb a hate fund. Really? OK. Love effedron. I would work up to 50 milligrams twice a day with 200 milligrams of caffeine and an aspirin. Good to get. You did the full. You did the full stack. Oh yeah. Yeah. I probably kill a bear. But I was very strong out on lots of different thermals at that point. So I did nothing. If I were to take 50 migs of a fedron now, I can only imagine. Oh, I'll be a mess. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So my effedron tail starts when the very first effedron hit the market in like 1990. And it was called diemeticering 25. And there were 25 milligrams of effedron. And there were 100 in a bottle. And you could also get the cheap ones called many things. I remember those. Yeah. That were like at the time they were like 20 milligrams, I think. OK. But we would get the diemeticering 25s because they just sold them at the gym on the shelf. This got them in the supplement department. And you just went and bought a bottle of diemeticron. And you take one pre-workout with a coffee. You know, so it's like 25 a fedron with probably 100 caffeine. And you go to the gym and you just have these fucking crank workouts. Because you're just like, and then on leg day, you take two. Of course. And you go to the gym and you're already vibrating. And you're already dripping sweat before you even start running. And you have this crazy workout. And then you feel like absolute garbage afterwards. Yeah. And you think it's just because you train so fucking hard. That you feel like garbage. You're coming off of that for you do that for like two years straight before you put together that maybe the massive stimulant is like unhealthy for you because you're a mess. You know, when you start training like with much less stimulant and you realize that there's like a point where things don't get better. Yeah. You know. I never got to that point where you realized that. They just took them off the market. Do you remember they had the drinks? I used to love. I sold a billion dollars with I appreciate them for buying my first house. Wasn't there like a turbo T that had a fedron in it? All of them. You had speed stack, grip force, extreme grip force. All of them had it in man A, taste delicious. Some of them like speed stacks for like five or ten calories. The extreme grip force was like a hundred but I mean it was like a crannaple juice. It was delicious. I used to get to work when I first started working in a sub much shop and the first thing I would do was spend the money I was going to make in my first hour of work by drinking one of those and having a bar. There you go. Took some time to realize that I was poor and needed to stop doing that. But it was you'd walk in like half dead and then like you know a quarter of the way through you're like, can I help you? You and the guys that can you leave me alone? Follow me. What about an ultimate orange? You guys ever used that one? Yes. Yeah so I remember there was a guy at the gym who had like the original ultimate orange. Yeah. And I remember I had some of it and that was probably the first time that I ingested a fedron. Yeah because I think that was even before the die meditrons were on the shelf. And then there was like a Canadian version of ultimate orange that didn't have a fedron in and I think. Oh yeah. Like a very short period of time and then it seemed to disappear off the market. You know, what was your experience with it? You try it? I did. I didn't remember it. Like I didn't know about it at the time. So I didn't have a very good understanding and I remember pouring myself a glass of water and mixing the ultimate orange in and then I'd like be in my parents' basement at like you know 13 perfect age to start using an affidron right? 14. Probably like 14 15. I remember taking a big old slug of it and then grabbing that curl bar like boom boom, pumping out a bunch of curls and then taking another slug. I'd be like all right, I'm ready for my next set. You know like I actually was thinking like you drink it and then you just go. Right. You know so I didn't I don't think the timing probably worked out pretty well. Yeah by the end of the workout. Yeah. Really ready to go. Yeah. Yeah. By the end. Yeah. That's the most good idea. I was getting second wind. Yeah. Like people used to come in looking for the original because it was before me and we carried an ultimate orange but it wasn't the same. Yeah. So they would come in and ask you have the original. I'm like I have that one if I had the original be fucking old. Hello. Yeah. Yeah. There was this stuff. That's the guy sent the Labor Day text. Anyways. This might have been like like more in the the era that you had supplement shops Do you guys remember a product called craze? It was a pre workout range. I don't know. So it was taken off the market eventually because it had like some sort of real actual like drug illegal drug in it. But I had one tub of that and I remember that I use that stuff at like 4 p.m. Get my workout in you know five to six to you know get home at seven eat. And at the time my girlfriend worked in Midnight Shift. So it'd be like her day off. So she'd get over the house at like 10 o'clock at night. And then we'd stay up for a few hours and I just remember like it'd be like 10 11 at night and not just be like talking talking talking still and just like why to wake. And it's like hours after my workout and I came to the conclusion like I think there's something different about that pre workout and then the home behold they took it off the market. That would have been the point where I bought as many. Yeah. They a lot of people did that too. Like. Good. I think totally different. Like this doesn't seem safe. How many do you guys have? Yeah. I have a credit card and we're fucking getting this done. I remember that might that like I had a similar thing with one three dime methyl. Yes. The first one one MR. Is that what it was? Yes. I remember that one MR. I remember that one. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I had one three dime methyl in it and you know I tried that and had like the more crazy workout and then passed out in my car on the parking lot. Whew. And slept for like 30 minutes post workout and drilled all over my shirt with my car running. And I woke up and my phones on the floor and I'm asleep but drilled all over me. And I'm like holy fuck. And then the next day I take it again and go train and have a killer workout and I go to safe way and I'm checking my phone in the parking lot and I fall asleep and the safe way parking lot with my car running. Oh shit. It's like winter time, right? So I'm sitting in my car and it's running. I fall asleep and I wake up on my thumbs on the keypad. So it's like JJ JJ JJ JJ JJ JJ JJ. You know, I fucking slobber all over me. I'm like this fucking pre workout is crashing me. Yeah. Then I go home and eat my post workout meal and pass it on the couch. And my girlfriend maybe that was a good thing though because think about that immediate recovery you were getting. I could sell this shit. But this is good for you wrong trust me. Immediately drops you into this good deep sleep. Yeah, you're in rem. You're in rem. Yeah. Yeah. No good. Yeah, no good. I'm killing me. All right. See what else we got here. All right. Training question for the show. What are your thoughts on the idea of using low rep warm upsets compared to higher rep warm upsets? On big exercises, I go 8, 6, 4, 1 progressively getting heavier up to one to two working sets all the best labs. It's a good question. And you know what? I mean, I actually kind of go almost workout to workout on that depending on how I'm feeling. I do generally do a little bit higher rep on my warm ups now because you know, I'm just trying to be really, really, you know, I'd rather expand a bit of strength warming up and not be so concerned with my top sets as they say, you know what I mean? I'm more concerned about just like training perfectly pain free and mechanically correct and being, you know, very able to continue to train without any interruption. And that's my priority. So, um, so, you know, I know there's a certain amount of calculated risk that we do in everything. So that's, you know, part of that choice, you know, I think that he says he goes down to one rep, which I think, I think that's too low. I think that's kind of nonsense. I think there's something about moving. You've got to move your last warm up like you, you know, your prep set, your final prep set. You've got to move it for like, I just think mechanically I would need a lot more, you know, sorry. You do have been on the lip. Oh, because if I was doing red myself, because I don't want to like do two or three reps with, you know, six hundred pounds if I'm going to 700. That's like, and so the way I do it's like an intro, it's like, okay, I don't want to go from, because I usually would just add a plate like on dead. Right. Right. So, you know, it would be like 10 pounds or 10 reps with 135. Yeah, this would be a, you know, good example. Yeah, where all the seconds I go get, I definitely want to jump straight to seven. I guess that's relaxing, like pressing. You're going to lap hold down right now and I totally agree with you. Yeah. Yeah, like I get to do like a one rep lap pull down camera from there. I'm very upset now. Why'd you bother? Yeah, good point. But yeah, generally, you know, it's like, I'm like, I do tens on everything at least. You know, even 20s. So yeah. Yeah, we did that when we did ours. It was Ron was doing 20s on every warm up. And then we were shooting for as many as we could get with the heavyweight. But it's like, that's one of the things that are funny about videos that people don't realize. So we don't typically put an entire sex. Somebody wants to watch that. Yeah. But like, if you ever did, it's important to know what led up to it. Sure. Because if, you know, we probably did five touch sets, at least four. So, you know, he's at a hundred reps before he started. Right. The actual. And we're not talking about like small jumps. I think we're going up 180 pounds at a time. You know, so he's got, say, 12 or 14 plates aside for a set of 20 before the work is set, you know. Yeah. But. But. So if you run it, it's important to work out to work out. You know, and for legs to me now, it's always the reps. Yesterday, I literally decided to try something different because I was smoked after doing Smiths and a, um, Sissy squat leg press. I put, I think, 10 plates total on the leg press. I was like, all right, I'm going to do 30 reps. Then stop, take three breaths, do five reps, stop, take and just go. So I was five reps, rest real quick, new again. The rest were hurting more than just keep going. And I was like, all right, I'm just going to try to get a hundred and only 10 plates at 75. I was like, fuck you, we're done. Yeah, yeah, 100 reps is crazy. It's done a few hundred reps sets. Yeah, I don't know. I remember I played five plates. That's brutal for a hundred. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. I, that's what I had yesterday and trust to believe 100 was not possible. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So that's the best. The workout was funny, Scott, here's, I was doing like, you know, warmups of 20. Right. And then when I actually get to my working weight, I fail at like 14. Okay. You know what I mean? Yeah. And then dusty, dusty does like warm upsets of 10. And then when he gets to the same weight that I got 14 with, he gets 50. Yeah, I believe the full one on the last one. Don't tell anyone about the warm ups. Yeah, yeah. But you know what? I, there's, there's, I think, okay. So when I first started understanding how to lift weights, I knew that I had to warm up the muscle. And I think later you start learning that part of the warm-up is like warming up your central nervous system too. It's rehearsal. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because like you ever go in the gym and you lift this is what I tell clients too. It's like you ever go in the gym and you lift a weight. And let's say you get seven wraps on it. And then you do a second set with the exact same weight. And now you got 11. It's like that it feels lighter that second time. It didn't get any lighter. But your central nervous system was more keyed up. So I think my answer to him is whatever it takes to get that central nervous, get the muscle warmed up, but get that, you know, CNS, queued up and ready to like dusty do for the 50. I could only imagine what that set was like. There's long. Yeah. Yeah. You know what? It's, it's, it's, it's, when you get older and on the whole this guy is, you guys might relate to this on anything pressing upper body. I'll do 135 for 10 and it feels like a pain and pull and take. And I'll wait a minute. I'll do it again and it feels flawless. Yeah. Like now it's moving. He'd like, oh, I think so I always do that first warm up twice on upper body. I have to. And it's, it's literally like I'm in a different body one minute later when I do it again. I don't think God, I get a lot of that like back. Yeah. Okay. I get a lot of that with back. Yeah. We're old people. Yeah. Yeah. All right. See those we got here. Um, um, you know, has dusty or Ron notice when training progressive overload following a log book that you change out movements for smaller body parts more frequently than larger movements, such as bench press, military press, studs, etc. Thanks guys. I don't really recall having that observation. I know that I didn't put as much like concern into my numbers on certain things. Because it is like, I don't know like preacher curls or just like so technical. I would like not force the progression on those things as much as I would unlike say an incline barbell press or something. But yeah, I don't really remember like swapping them out more or less. But does he probably log booked a lot longer than I did? What's very, I mean, what you said is a home so accurate is there's two tools of thought. A lot of people they remove and exercise as soon as they're not progressing on it. And obviously you're not going to be progressing on a strict curl the same way you are on a leg press. Yeah. So it'll go quicker. I'm with you Ron actually though. I didn't change him out as often. What I was obsessive about was, okay, but how did I feel it today? Yeah. So I could get the same reps. Now this is where it gets a little choppy for people that are log bookers is their sole obsessed with the number going up that they actually start cheating. Yeah, it doesn't want to be worse. You know, it's like, well, you said if you cheat 1% and I'm doing the same movement anymore. So I found that what I would do is get really technical or Dante's having some things like make sure that's a full stretch at the bottom in a pause. Then come back up. You know, those little tweaks I was like, oh shit that hurt way more. I'm down to reps actually, but it was better. You know what I mean? Then I'd build that one back up, things like that. So I agree with you. I'm just on that Ron. Okay. Oh boy. At least we agree. Oh boy. Then listening since