This is from Connie Richards so you know people were reflecting on that episode about what they've learned from us Over these 200 episodes and Connie Richards says lessons from Ron Too many to list but the main one the only reason you lifted was to lower it Well, I think I actually stole that from Dusty, but I might have said it on the podcast before he did. I don't know But yeah, that's a fair game. I think I Still from you But yeah, and I'm referring to people obviously not using their negatives properly as part of the set Your negatives Yes From Dusty Shoot your first Really Really Almost died just trying to get on this episode because I was in a rush to eat a sandwich a sandwich by the way Ron And here's the important one that everyone needs to remember from Scotty Assume it's loaded Red is dead and It truly is just bodybuilding Like I can do that in though that was a that was a good way to highlight the just bodybuilding as in Don't hear so seriously, every that's good. Thanks, good one. We had I think we may have had somebody mentioned this before on one of the shows Where was that one it was about headaches while lifting yeah, yeah, this one He says hey guys. I wonder if y'all have ever developed Exertion headaches Took a pendulum squat all the way to failure Bottom out the pendulum because I hit failure before I thought I would Every set after made my head absolutely pound and for the next week I've read to take it easy just wondering if y'all have ever had issues with these things Yeah, I so He said that every set afterwards made his head pound Yeah, so that might be a different type of headache than what I've had but I've had exertion headaches where I couldn't possibly do another set. I was completely debilitated like I when the first time I had it I actually thought I was like I think I called 911 like I might be dying But the pain was so severe and it was in the back of my head in the back of my neck it built I felt it build in the back of my neck as I was doing a wrap And then when I got to the top it was on the hacksquad. I'll never forget it I got to the top of the hack and it hit me And I had to like rack the hacksquad and sit on a bench and like just try not to move and just survive it It was debilitating I couldn't have finished my workout at all and then I had it happen again Like a month later on the incline. I was pushing my head against It's a bench dumbbell press And I remember and it happened again and so I went to the doctor and I told him and he's like oh man He checked my blood pressure and it was a little high because I was like I think I was a young I was running like anodrol for the first time And he was like oh man your blood pressure is a little high So I remember I started taking these herbs and then I got my blood pressure checked a week later And it was way back down to normal Like it was funny. I was using a hot thorn I was using a hot thorn and a couple of things at this back in the 90s And I also like cleaned up my diet and it was back down like like drastically and he was like okay He's as better and then and I the headaches didn't come back for a while But then I had a few more like throughout my life I'd have the odd one like I'd be squatting and I'd just be on like the seventh rep and I'd filled I'd feel that build in the back of my neck and I'd be like oh shit and I'd like rack the bar to try to dodge it And sometimes you dodge it but if you don't dodge it in time it hits you anyways and then you're screwed You can't finish your workout and I think some of it is tension on the neck like you're straining your neck And it does something to the blood flow in there. I think it's something to do with that and if your blood pressure's maybe already like borderline high Because you're like big and huge and I don't know. I don't know exactly what it is But there I've had like brutal headaches So but not for ages I've never had that I've know people that have but I've never had it and obviously the very simple one is like When you wrote and for the next week Do you mean you had a headache for a week after that? Because to me that sounds like doctor shit or is he saying for the next week take it easy? I think he meant yeah take it easy. He was told or he read to take it easy for the next week Because what he was saying? Yeah, I definitely wouldn't I don't take headaches lightly Especially that kind of thing because I know what they can be So yeah, yeah, I would definitely look I would definitely run said check your blood pressure Which if you're bodybuilding in any way shape or form and you don't have a good Coffee in your house you are out of your mind. Yes, you should check your blood pressure all the time You should and I hate I'll ask people that that are like bodybuilders of mine You know like what was blood pressure give me blood pressure mark. I'm like coming in to get it What do you mean you don't have that like you should it's like a $50 thing to buy And make sure you have a cuff. We just talked about this on muscle noise Make sure you have a cuff that fits your arm, you know, that's important Very well, sorry. I had to put it down that little closing question here First of all he says lat spreads for the algorithm Question and how how long did it take for you to get your posing from I need a mirror to It's down to a tea. It's perfect. Oh, yeah, you just wait to see Well, my my mandatory poses were like Nailed my first show. I remember the judges telling me at my very first show. They were like You're really like you nailed those mandatory. You know head to toe, but that's because I'll never forget like reading Like what have been 1990 or something but I read like a Dorian Yates quote in a magazine and he was like the mandatory poses Or all because someone asked him about his posing or teen not being fans here something yeah And he was like he's like the mandatory is already a win and lose the show like if you can't do the mandatory If you can't stand perfect for 15 minutes then You just lazy like it's ridiculous And so I just remember knowing that Mandatory poses were like that's where you win and lose the show that's that's it Can you do them or not like you have to be able to have different perfectly no excuses? So that's where I got that from it like the very beginning and So he just it's got to work on it Like analyze the photos we we were learning to buy watching VHS tapes too. We were just watching VHS tapes Watching guys do their limpier routines and we're just copying them But we had to use our brains like what what degree flexion is his elbow? It's about 45 okay, so I'll put it 45 okay his arm is Parallel to the floor so it's not up here right and it's not down here It's parallel to the floor but there okay, you know where's his one foot but and I just break it down It's not hard they're right in front of you you're looking at them just do that Copy it Practice it I feel like if you And this is this is I was I'm guilty of I loved prepping for bodybuilding shows and I loved being huge I did not love bodybuilding what I mean by that is if you don't understand that posing is everything And you need to put as much or more effort in opposing as you any other part of your prep Then you don't love actually bodybuilding because The show is decided there and the higher up the ranks you get the more important that is you know I was never a great poser because I I didn't like it I didn't care that much but I was conditioned so I could hold them for a really long time But if you want to be as best you can on stage you versus you or not tell him about how far you're gonna go Then you have to perfect it because you have to hit a shot and then Look at it objectively and say okay, is there anything I could do with my body to make this better? Yes, yeah should the hip goes sideways should this do this? I mean like I'll laugh but and I don't think that Many followers catch it, but you'll see a guy like Derek lunchford or or you know So we're like that be like he was like this or this better and I'm like You're so good they're both awesome The point is he is good as he is he's literally trying to decide if there's any difference But between these shots and I understand you're just like slightly different you know But I promise these guys are thinking of that like yeah How much can I get this 1% better and I think that's when you realize your champion body But because you're that obsessive You know, so yeah, just a thought because there's no thing not good yeah another thing about posing is You know we talk a lot about how everything is just repetition and time spent Right so so You're only gonna be so big at your first show You know you're only so big you're you've only given yourself so many weeks to get in shape Right so you can get in the best shape you possibly can give in the time if you do it right But posing you can have your posing nailed at your first show I'm gonna have it there's it that's there's no you don't have to there's no muscle mass gaining There's no fat loss to do with your posing it's it's just Motor skills and movement Anyone can learn it and it's just time and repetition and I hear people set themselves up. They're like oh yeah I you know, I'm not really good at posing so like you know I'm just and I'm like okay, so that's more of an emergency If you're not really good at posing now we have an emergency Before we just had you being not posing enough, but now you've admitted you're not good at it So now it's like a huge weakness You know, I'll say so they'll say I'm not good at posing and they'll pose less And it's like they're it's like no, no, no, no, you can't avoid this like I've had people coming to me three weeks out They're like hey can you have a look at my posing and I might share and I look at it And it looks like they have never practiced anything ever just like Within three you don't know how to do a front double You don't know how to do a lot spread you can't stand relax you don't know what quarter turns are You don't even know what they're supposed to look like you're literally staying sideways You know, so I've seen people just so Radically unprepared yeah to pose on stage And blows my mind because they have 100% control of it 100% control just completely neglected So don't do that I have to tell you guys two stories that are so funny first one's not Triggered mess do I saw guys? Yeah, no, this is this is just Declasic with the first one is just a true statement that you the people need to realize I was just telling my training partner this yesterday So I was doing I'm working with this guy for the first time it was I was trying to win my first overall so I work with this guy and I hit a rear lat spread and he's like that's really good I go okay, it could be a lot better That's okay, what should I do and he goes well we got two options we can either Wait a year and you can put on 20 pounds of muscle He goes or you could push your elbows too inches for the floor And it looked like you put on 20 pounds of muscle I was like Okay, so he goes put your elbows too inches forward and I did and he took a picture and he showed it to me I was like What is that? Yeah, I mean it literally looked like I put on Massive amount of weight so yeah, that was the valuable story But this is the funny one so I used to meet with guys to pose them and this guy came in and I taught him all the shots He knew him and he was nail on them so I was like okay face front quarter quarter quarter Okay front double okay front last friend okay side chest right all in order Then like a couple days out from the show he comes in and I go I face front and I go Side chest and he just looked at me Oh, he called it out of orders Didn't you he didn't remember any of them he was just doing him in order and what I think of the name Oh my god. I was like How is this possible I go do a side chest and he goes? Which one is that I go? Do a front double and he just looked at me like you're the dumbest person I've ever met you're policemen I swear to god I could I literally like he walked out of like how I was saying the words Yeah, but because I'm saying him in order. Yeah, he it was like he didn't hear me for like three months Okay, so I've seen it happen where people get thrown off if you do the poses out of order You know what I mean, but that's a whole other thing. That's a whole other thing. Well, I think it didn't even know that I've seen yeah, I've seen people freeze up on stage because the judges will be like okay I'll let's let's bring a 16 back out Yes, and 12 back he brings 13 out. Okay guys back double bicep Yeah, and like the odd guys like What if I'd do five other poses before you know You got like three guys turn around put their leg back hit it back double other two guys are standing there like we can any each other like you know, I've seen that I've seen that a lot It's funny. It's so amazing. I just remember thing to myself is like how is this even possible? I mean, yeah, we had probably practiced no exaggeration 7 and a half hours. I'm gonna say 15 meetings at 30 events a piece. Yeah, you're kind of standing there You're going like it's like quarter turn so he just knows it's like next pose Next one it's this one and then it's this one yeah Oh God So for the place before the stage Yeah For my first show my coach had told me like you need to practice without a mirror So what I ended up doing was I borrowed my parents came quarter and I literally had it set up on a tripod in my house and I would hit my poses I'd run through all of them and then I'd go back and I'd hit rewind and I'd hit play and I'd watch the poses And I'd be like oh, I don't like the way that one looked, you know and then after I run through all that then I'd just go back And I would hit that same pose whatever pose like front double bicep. I'd hit that pose You know hold it for 15 seconds and then I'd go hit stop and hit rewind and hit play and look at that and be like okay That was better you know what I mean? I'd be like, but I gotta try to bring this this elbows down a little bit I gotta bring you know Yeah, that was literally I did that and that worked out really well and if somebody wanted to do that today It's a lot easier because you don't have to borrow your parents camcorder if you have a phone, you know me You're perfect Great I borrowed a camcorder for my first show two Did you? 7 no kidding. I set it up my uncle had one and I set it up and I hooked it up to my TV Oh, so I hit toes and watch myself on the TV Yeah In front of the camera and then when I was ready I would turn the TV off with the remote and I would run through a series Yeah, and then I would rewind it and watch it on the TV No, you know what I mean? It's the same same sort of thing, but yeah, that's how we were doing it Yeah, it was funny. No Yeah, there's like no there's a mystery list. There's Googling camcorder. Yeah camcorder. This is the camcorder We had a couple is home phone line We had a couple comments about Do you guys remember we were talking about Michaela set one person commented and I don't have a screen cap of it that was like over eight minutes long So there's that yeah, and then just so that we know because I wanted you guys to know Lee Priest watched that episode and he suggested instead of a hundred ref to do 1,000 in 27 I That anything other 1,000 24 creates Too much cortisol Yeah He never he never actually did the 20 seven he always taught the 24. That's right Plus he was an extreme steroid abuser that's true. So there is that so we get to the quiz on So much extreme Wasn't he on 10 I use a GH because he would legally adorfe as note they used to say No, that was 10 I was like a rumor damn Was it really a rumor they said about him? Well, anyway, it's like some dumb thing someone's like I yeah Lee Priest got some doctor to like right that he was a Technically, you know, height whatever a Order of the number so we could get you take there was like these dumb rumors about Lee when you when it was young Because he was such a freak. Yeah, so like and I remember I was in Australia like in the midnight Oh, yeah, so he had just he had just like you know gotten huge and he was like the big star From Australia so of course there's all these dumb ridiculous rumors and oh the guys at new just laughed like I would of course Just all the guys that actually you know new who he was and they just sat these rumors were just so funny But yeah, he had to put up with a lot of that shit and to this day Because he'll still tell and here's the thing is that when he says what a cycles were like he literally He doesn't change the story doesn't change you notice that Let me make sure no, yeah exactly It doesn't change he's not like you know one day he says this much this day. It's that much so that I think Led us to credibility in itself, so but people to this day are like oh no, man, you know I just love looking at those old pictures of him and realizing he was better at 17 than we will ever be Yeah, he was actually the picture he was beating growing men that were doing the sport for years at that age, you know It's been done for 15 minutes. It was his first set Okay, sorry where we got a question for the next podcast Oh dick I completed I competed last October and then I took a health phase and now I'm telling you Now I'm telling me into my offseason I've been adding some quality size and doing everything I should be doing I'm almost 15 pounds from stage weight and not fat however I've been getting unbearable lower back pumps even while walking Zodium has been consistent drinking a ton of water any advice tips for Exist for Existing as we continue to try and add more size Where you see these up almost 50 pounds from stage 10 weeks into his offseason That is a ton of weight to put on Yeah, so Dangerous here for me to say this But I think you're probably fat on anything Because right you put on 50 pounds in 10 weeks and you're saying there's not that much fat and you're complaining about all the things that sound like fat Right, I mean because you like let's get bold here and say that you lost muscle going to that prep So you put five pounds back on and then let's get really bold and say that in 10 weeks you put on 10 pounds of pure muscle There's still 35 pounds left over that we got to figure out where they came from in 10 weeks And you did not put on 15 pounds of muscle sensor show So there's right there Yeah, well, I would say as far as The lower back pumps go I mean that obviously is just When you have fluid on you or you're holding water or anything that's all Way more likely to happen and that happens on like the bad contest rebounds but you're like you know a long ways after your show so I would say part of it too is people get people get out of shape after their show It happens all the time they're doing so much cardio. They're probably stretching more They're probably doing all this stuff when they're doing their show They're posing they're moving they're just they're they're in better shape and then after the show They just lift weights and get stronger and do nothing else it happens all time and And then things get tight and they're like oh my shoulders are tight my hips are tight my backs killing me But it's just they're just not really doing what they were doing and then they don't realize how much they've stopped doing That's part of it and then add the fluid add the anodrol add the McDonald's Yeah, you got these crazy back pumps it, you know, so it's small it's multi-pronged issue usually Pull the draw pull the deba'll see what happens pull the McD's yeah Yeah, I did this something I worked with the clients all I asked Almost every week when somebody starts really pushing up and wait I'm like and how's the low back and how's the low back? Yeah, you know right when we once we cross a lot I have found at least with myself And you guys the lesson we'll find this to is you'll hit a weight that's your heaviest ever that's very very uncomfortable Yeah, and then in a year or so that weight will be plus 12 15 pounds before you find that Unbearable point again You know because it used to be like for me two sixty used to be like How everything was uncomfortable breathing sucked all those things and now like two eighty I feel like an injure my God Sleeping like a champ going upstairs and I'm breathing hard, you know, it's just different What's your got Scott? One more question here and I don't know if you guys had anything else you want to throw in actually this was an A question it was a comment says I used Dusty's switching the price tag on chicken breast Almost he'll and I almost got caught any more tips would be appreciated in thanks for the content All the best all around bodybuilding podcasts. Oh don't do that amazing Oh That's amazing. Do you have any other good test to compliment that one for fucking lame sorry for the swears got super lame and embarrassing if you get constantly Grocery store like don't do that Milliation I did I did get I did catch a Guy stealing for me at the grocery store once So I'm buying For me I'm a man. I'm at the checkout stand Get dusty hands. I've got the you know the little little little Yes, yeah, guys. Oh, there's like There's like eight chicken breasts and the thing right yeah, so I put like five of them on there Drop them on and the guy the guy scans the first one and then he scans it four more times Okay, like they sound that's by weight oh Yeah, and that one five and I watched so I just did what any honest man would do a lean forward So that was the second cheapest one and kept my mouth shut. Yeah, that's what you've got to do with that You have no other option because I didn't want to embarrass him on how This is expensive when I would have embarrassed him But literally was like you can't possibly be this stupid. They're not the same It's not much right. It's not a it's not a package I literally watched it. I was like I'd say me like seven dollars. Thanks, dude. Why did you do that But yeah, I'm no longer joking on the podcast for fear that I will get someone arrested no bro What did he did it? I learned about it on a podcast Dusty does not condone theft in any way I promise So Ron you said you had a bunch of questions. Oh and you have to I have a bunch of questions sure that that your the her question to you Get answered because I don't remember if you'd ask that for about the album which one was it? Who's which one was her? As wrong What or is if you could only listen to one album for the rest of his life which one would it be? Oh God Yeah, that's her island I don't think yeah No, he's saying like with the album you would listen to if you only had one album on a desert island Yeah desert island out. Yeah, that's it. Yeah desert out of them It's very tricky Because you know you're not gonna be in one mood the rest of your life. You know what I mean? Yeah And it's uh, any thick man. I only got one album and then you don't want to pick one that doesn't rock enough Because you're not always gonna feel like listening to nice music you're gonna want some I need to get psyched up to go hunting and fishing I'll make a dumpster that's tape for you. Just take that with you Yeah, there you go. Let's go. Yeah, it's real nice mix. Yeah, scotch dubstep. I don't know You know, I think here here. I'll I'll I'll give a very like expected answer and then I'll give like a 20 second explanation. Okay. I would I would pick I would take a C DC back in black I've said to that it's my favorite album But it's also a reminder of how you can do a lot with very little it's super simple Right just guitar it's super simple just everything about it is simple strip down You know, it's aggressive so I use it to get psyched up for hunting and fishing like I said very important people You don't want to neglect a little bit of psych up for hunting and fishing expeditions if you're stuck on a strip just Is that phones headphones if you're gonna be hunting because we don't want to scare. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah You might want to have some air pods or something. Yeah, so yeah. I would pick that you know I I you know Be nice to have like You know like an album that had a wider range of stuff on it, but you know I think I'd take a go with that one just you got to stay on your toes You know It's good. Yeah, take that. Sorry. Yes. Yeah, I was like I better make sure this gets answered That could be like a whole series of questions. I think like desert island this and desert island that you know I think we need to do an episode where we do an ask wrong If we just everyone has to ask wrong questions Because I always like to know the answers myself so I'm just asking this for me But I think we would rather than think we we put Scott on a desert island and we make him watch shoshank redemption What we do it's not even see that 11 see that Here I got a question for you It is for you okay, and there's a total egg egg white shortage Yeah, there's no eggs no egg whites. It's kind of happening right now Yeah, like right you know this guy's saying things are getting out of hand. What do you replace them with? You know because you know, yes, I'm gonna be like that breakfast. It's just didn't want to Check in for breakfast. Like what do you do you go to create yogurt? Do you just go to weigh isolate? What do you replace your eggs and egg whites with if they you know you can't do them anymore? What do you have do you just make it more meat? Well, you just said we couldn't like I mean, I would just eat steak, but Because they got better than eggs you know, but if I was trying to actually like if you said okay, I have two whole eggs and Ex amount of egg whites I would make it up in weigh protein and natural peanut butter Simple yeah, okay, yeah, it works. That's probably what I do. I don't feel is like I don't feel like it is so here's the thing even when I've been dieting if my first meal is a shake I don't feel like my digestive system is really turned on yet With a shake You know 30 minutes later. I feel like I still have any yet Or I don't feel hungry at all and then I eat meal too and then after that like it's like my now my digestive system is moving and now It's like the real hunger is triggered. Do you know what I'm saying? It's like I don't feel solid with just a shake I've done it I've done it more than a lot of it more than a lot of times I'll put it that way more than a lot of times more than a lot of times yeah I would you guys measurements like me Ron a shit ton of this And a more than a lot of times yeah, more times than I can count. I would pick it me personally Okay, but there is something to be said about if you take all the time that's what I think yeah, do you stick for like all your meals? I read meat two or three times a day every day. Okay. Yeah, I just feel I don't mind Good, I never buy it. I never buy it, but I don't mind Greek yogurt with like you know some granola and way and Barry stirred natural peanut butter stirred up in it just all mashed up that can be delicious. You know I don't mind going to that If I got to you know, I just don't want to eat the same thing for every meal you know I mean Yeah, that's a thing if you have steak for breakfast or chicken for breakfast now you're like I think you're like having it, you know how many more times yeah, I know you want something different Okay, okay, I got one more Only one I know I yeah, yeah, would you rather master all musical instruments or all sports Benefit you more in life you know That's what I just think about right now think about like right now at this age like if suddenly you had all the skills Yeah, like any instrument or any sport Feel like one would preserve your body the other would help preserve your mind You know I would shock people but I would definitely do instruments because I've also found that I mean I found I've heard it's made it sound like I was smart How much music and knowing how to play in read music affects how your brain works in Yes, so I think if you had that much knowledge of all the instruments would be off the charts plus is broken I am just because I know how to throw a fucking football. That's what I can Or should It's a shoulder is about three feet that way right now Funny how I read the I read it. I read it in the context of now Right, so my you know, I didn't read it in like the context of like if you could live again What would you want to master you know I read it in like now and I'm like well Knowing how to do almost all sports is not gonna be a good idea for me right now I'm just like Sprout my body into this you know ability to like do like it's not gonna be a good thing There's gonna be like this is gonna be some stuff come you gotta earn that you know I don't know the body does you get any of all bodies Well, he threw a football Urdish Urdish He's mud and decide to do a trick Yeah, he landed in like his knees explode land the trick and hurt exactly I Can do it flawless This is Just loaded the last thing he did We got video like landed this awesome flip Oh, this coming for a guy who can't you just stake without getting hurt. I mean come on Yeah They do say the the more you exercise your brain the better you will age You know the better like being able to do puzzles and reading Like any tail like like memory games all those things will help to You know preserve your memory and be able to Extend our brains for longer. I didn't know this. I never thought about this but I I recently learned that with like all simers and dementia Your body literally forgets how to work Like that's the final stages. I didn't realize it because I actually like I've known that it's a problem It's a disease that people will get and I but I was I kind of I like I didn't realize what the end result was and it's like you forget how to breathe Which you know I it's crazy to think you know over time So I would think that instruments would would help with that you know they do we we have enough data now All musical instruments. It's it's very much I don't think it's this exactly the same but it's very much the same as learning more languages You know, yeah, there's all a lot of this in pathways activated and you know areas of the brain and stuff And and I will tell you that You know I had someone else there's another question I got that was kind of a vote motivation but you know If you're if I hear from people all the time that say like hey, you know, I I really like doing this But I have a hard time getting motivated You know I just scroll my phone and I'm distracted and I realized I could have spent 20 minutes Practicing piano or whatever. I tell myself I want and then I don't act like I want it You know I get distracted and all that stuff and Part of my advice is kind of stuff that I've done to get myself to be more disciplined with You know practicing my guitar and that sort of stuff and and I tell myself that it's not just If I think about it is just me having fun on my guitar There's not nearly as much motivation as I think This hobby is literally gonna make me smarter for decades Yeah, and it's gonna make me sharper and keep me younger and The end result is I'm just gonna be a really good guitar player when I'm in my 50s and that's gonna be awesome I can't wait Like in three four five more years I'm just fucking shredding and I'm gonna be like 52 and it's gonna be awesome and my brain's gonna work better So like I have these like things like if I do this there's a road I will go down and I will be this thing eventually and that's motivating to me So if you have something that you're trying to like get yourself to do like I really want to go on these 20-minute walks I really want to like you know do this thing try to think about what the actual Real long-term effect of that is it's not just the thing you're doing or the fun you're having at the moment Yeah, like we have to you know try to see more than that if you can see the bigger picture it might help you You know it if you're leaving longer if you do this exercise You know people who have been like training all their lives that includes lifting weights, you know Yeah, I know the big picture from you know you think of the same I can think of the same thing that like if you are Consistent with this you are Allow your giving you're preserving your muscle muscles only gonna break down as we age so that when you're 90 or 70 or 80 Whatever you still have more muscle than you would have otherwise you can help to maintain that and not to mention like a year later Imagine what you're gonna look like like you could either do it or not do it either way a year later is gonna happen So why not be able to play that instrument better or in this case like we all do you know why not look better feel better in the gym Yeah, yeah, it's awesome and I wanted to I wanted to derail it a little bit because it's something you and I've talked about So if anybody like really follows Ron you realize like all right, so pretty regularly whether Dependent he's on the bike and then very regularly He's doing the guitar But I think one thing that gets missed that people who aren't on the inner circle don't know is Ron is busy or in his life and he has ever been in this moment Like it's just life is busy and it requires discipline To go ride the bike it requires discipline to play the guitar because the really air quote isn't time to do that As everyone likes to say yeah, yeah, you gotta find that that thing that you that you're going to do it anyways Because I think like you said Ron a lot of people they're like that's a very easy like It's just for fun anyways It you need to kind of force yourself into doing these things because I Know your schedule because I've lived that I've had your business is a business very similar years before like it is out of control That you have to force yourself to do something you enjoy because I'm sure there's plenty of time as much You enjoy that's like I could also use an hour more sleep Yeah, yeah, there's a lot to that you know like You know the other day I got up and I went to the gym and trained and I spent a couple hours there and posed the client And then I went and rode my bike for almost two hours and then I went and worked on my phone for like three hours straight And just did you know check hands and client catch ups, you know, and that was my Saturday Yeah, yeah, that was a Saturday right so you know That's just like a weekend day where I got some time to like ride my bike, but I still worked like you know Easy five six hours at day total if you look at how much time I was talking to clients and spent on my phone and stuff And that's like and you know, that's a weekend day So there's always something to do there's always work to do Monday like you know an average Monday There's no way I can get out you know, I don't even bother trying you know It's just too much so Yeah That list because for a lot of people like you said Scott that is the gym Yeah, and then you just I don't have time and and I'm just trying to get a good physique and who cares because my Kids need me to do this or my whatever and yeah, you switch like you said around the mindset It's like well this could also help you be healthier and be around longer for your kids So yeah, yeah, a lot of people are writing off in a little bit a lot of people write it off Just you know, it's just a physique. It's just being vain, you know Yeah, you're selfishly thinking about abs. Well, let's let's take this a little bit further You know, so another thing with with all those things is is You have to make sure you're really take a minute to be aware of how good you feel after you do them You know after you after you you know play piano for 30 minutes or after you do the thing that you've been Promise in yourself you're gonna do or the cardio that you haven't been doing that you do you know you need to get Be healthier and all that think of how you feel afterwards and that's if you can really try to Remember that and spend a moment Experiencing it and not just rushing out the door to go do something and getting back in your busyness But just sitting for a minute and realizing how good you feel and how positive your mind is and how you know You probably got some adrenaline flowing and you're just like really good mood You know and that's one thing that motivates me to because like the other day It I looked at my app and it said there was a 90% chance it was gonna snow and So I was like well Do I bother taking my bike Right and I was like Think of how good I'm gonna feel even if I only get 30 minutes Just think of how good I'm gonna feel even if because I hate you know feel like it's a waste of time Like I go out there in 20 minutes later. It starts raining, right? Sure, but even if that happens I feel great that I got out because I know that I tried to be disciplined I did my part you know all that too, you know Let yourself down so that all factors into it as well So if you can just remember how good you're gonna feel if you keep your keep yourself disciplined So agreed love it Okay, is that a show guys solid finish yeah, absolutely Okay, we didn't rant too much we didn't get to it. We didn't talk about hockey fights That's that's that's that's something that's something I think some people like the hockey fights though You know I've had multiple comments Specifically on the hockey fights. Yeah, yeah, you know, yeah I was funny people thought it was funny. Shorzy I watched the whole show. It is so good. I think you guys bolt should watch it Shorzy I had someone else tell me to watch it You watch it does to lift it you lived it lived it The Nila pressure in it you'll appreciate it. I would show it. It's even more Like I watched it all and then I found out that like there is gonna be a second season and now I'm like I just want to see the second season now like I'm ready right that's the way I feel like so much I like that show is good Okay, awesome. Okay. I started a new show last night We started to kill vice on HBO Yeah, so let you know how it goes. It's pretty interesting so far It's about what the both the first Westerner to ever work at this giant Japanese newspaper It's like the biggest newspaper in Japan and it takes place back in the late 90s Okay, and It's this Western guy who comes in he's brilliant speaks fluent Japanese He's the only guy to ever get into that whole newspaper reporting world and he's doing police reporting And he kind of discovers Right off the bat that there's this etiquette regarding crime You don't report crime normally. It's very very careful how you report your crime Because Police don't want bad statistics and the yakuza run everything You can't right there's no murder in Japan Very safe right? We don't know we there no one saw without a witness with unless there's a witness there's no murder No such thing as much as I'm sorry, so He's he's learning we're only went up a so-and and he's like he's like learning that you know There's a certain way that you report things in Japan so it's pretty interesting so far and it's Done by Michael man who did the original man me vice. Oh, wow. So yeah, so it's got like a real pretty feel and and and it's it's good It's really good. There's a lot of Japanese actors obviously there's some subtitles But it's not like it's not too much. It's and it's been great. You know one episode in and we're really really interested to see what happens So recommending it so far. I let you know how it goes. Nice beautiful Okay, remember everybody like share subscribe comment and Bring the bell Okay, thanks Scott remember the Patreon for think big bodybuilding Check out the Patreon of course your questions will get priority and all that stuff and now Scott really appreciates the patreon Help them on the channel and and I am mutant calm supplements go on there You got your protein or I so surge your gear your EAs your pump products everything's on there So check out I am mutant the all in the new shirts the new beanies are coming The new hoodies are coming like Scott has on these are the coolest. I got to tell you yeah The cool and that well and we got 20% off a dusty 20 or big wrong 20. Okay So thanks everybody and remember it's just bodybuilding See you guys at the Arnold

Okay, so here's the deal. I figured that a bunch of you guys were not able to make it to the Arnold Classic, and some of you have never been to an actual before, and I know what it's like. Sometimes you only get like a week off vacation time per year. You have to schedule that ahead of time. Are you going to go to the Arnold? Are you going to do something with your family? You know, I get it. We can't all make it. So my thought was, I've got this awesome opportunity that I'm getting to go. I'm getting to hang out with mutant and shoot podcasts all weekend. I need to shoot a bunch of behind the scenes stuff and share it with you guys, specifically for those of you that weren't able to make it so that you can have part of that experience too. Now, for those of you that did make it and you stopped by to say hi, thank you for that. You guys literally made my freaking weekend. That was so cool. So anyway, don't get too excited. This is mainly just cell phone footage, but like I said, I wanted to share it with you to share the experience. So thank you to mutant for having me along. Thank you to Big Ron and Dusty for letting me into your world. And it's an absolute blast doing this stuff. And thank you to you guys for stopping by and saying hi. And thank you to all of you at home who watch our programs. All right. So for anybody coming down to the Arnold, we're looking forward to meeting you. Yes, we are. Yes, we are. Come see us and say hello. Where we just trained here, Dusty. Metro was Metro Jim Metro Metro. Metro Fitness. We're in 10. Yes, much of fitness. Where is it? Awesome. Check it out if you want to avoid the riff raf and just want to have nasty work out. And let's see. What's up guys, at the mutant booth here in Lear, setting up. This is going to be the podcast space for the weekend. This is freaking all or this is going to be awesome. They've got a four way booth this year. So you can see the truck. It's got a bunch of stuff going on over here. They're doing their challenges. They've got merch on the other side. And then this is us. I just have to get it set up now. What's up, Jamie? How you doing? Good. Good. I'm so excited to see. I want to ask you all sorts of questions. But I feel like the questions I want to ask you have signed like a non-disclosure. That's what I may be, you know? Yeah, I don't really have to say. I'll tell you. Yeah. I don't. Don't. I'm just standing my toes. It's just going on. I'm just going on. I'm going to put my squat down here. What's up guys? What's going on? What's up guys? What's going on? I'm really, really happy. I just got a minute. I'm going to see you, man. Right. So we recorded with Dre Young earlier. And we're getting ready to record it again. We've got Jamie over here. And of course, big ride. Dusty will be here. And I'm over here. Controlling all the buttons. We got a camera here. Another camera over there. And we are set to go. All right. So we're getting ready to record another podcast. We've got Jamie over here. It's going to hang out with us. And I'm going to have this thing as ready to go. I'm going to have a bunch. It's just like a podcast and marathon. It's so far. It's only Friday. Tomorrow, we're going to be freaking packed and packed. That's day one in the books, buddy. What did you think? It was really good. It was a little bit more in 2019 by today from Friday. Because you know, last couple years, Friday's been a little quiet. It's Saturday's been decent, but we didn't fully recover from the event until I think this year. This year's been good. So what's going on back here? Where are we right now? We're in the top secret, back room of the moon. You know, we got our system there. We're running on the video. Yeah, so we got so, you know, a bunch of our videos on an SD card and they're playing on the TV's right. And one of the little trailers that we have is the whole history of mutant. So it's like everything that mutant's done from the beginning of kind of the YouTube age. So there's a bit of eclipse of rage and like everyone that's ever been immune is in this trailer. And we're playing some of our other videos, you know what I mean? So there's lots of kind of seem for the outside. What are all these boxes? These are all the shirts and the product for selling. And hopefully by Sunday we got nothing left. That's normally how it goes. Try not to take anything home. Try not to take anything home. So you just try to get rid of it all by then. And for a Friday, they did a lot of damage for a Friday. Like this box is where all levels. So tomorrow is obviously Saturday's the huge day. And then Sunday, you just whatever you got left, you just try to clear. What are you on? A particular tomorrow. Um, like an extraordinarily crazy Saturday. I think it'll be packed the entire day. I think we'll probably sell out of a lot of stuff and then Sunday will have to tell people we're out of that, we're out of that. That's why prediction. I can see that coming true. Let's find out. Let's find out. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. And, uh, oh yeah, here's that video where I was talking about. I mean, that's just a massive screen over the booth. But this is paint behind me. He won the challenge for the mutant challenge where they hold the bags out. Two minutes and thirty something seconds. And it's been a long time. No, I got seconds. Five seconds. So the winner of the whole week against like a WWE style belt. Yeah, I got it. I don't know. I think you can do it. You can do it. Then you want the whole thing. I guess I did with it. I'm sorry. Yeah. Thanks guys. All right. See you guys tomorrow. Yeah. So we do a challenge every day. We're going to hold the 15 pound mass bags out of 90 degrees. Uh, and top time of the day against a prize bag. Uh, it's usually like between three hundred and fifty dollars with the stuff. Pretty much. One of everything we sell during the show. We're going to cool Jim back and then you get the bragging range to being with Strongest person, the Esco. You've got like a, like a WWE style belt. Yeah. The overall with it. Yeah. All the makeup. It's not that. Yeah. And it's legit. He won that last year then. Last year, yeah. What's the secret? Like, he does go to this big jet body belt. Honestly, no. It's always the person who leaves six minutes. What's up guys? I'm a listener. What's your name? Name? And where you at? Atlanta Georgia. Oh yeah. How about you listen to the shows? Probably four or five years. All right. Yeah. And what's one piece of advice that's done with you from the podcast? Well, probably a little bit from each podcast from Muscle Minds with Scott Stevenson. It's a whole slew of biomechanics and muscle physiology. Yeah. And then with Ron and Dusty, you learn about anecdote and training hard and especially Dusty, just really that grit that goes behind everything. And then with Ron, it could be anything. It could be music or any one of, he knows a lot about a lot. So I think I've learned a bits and pieces, different pieces from each one of the podcasts. But I love them all. I love Scott for hosting them. And I love everything that you guys do. And I actually just saw now Cuba is doing his thing. We have a new one coming out Monday. That's amazing. Cuba's my coach. Cuba's my coach. Oh, I'm very dear. Yeah, I love everything about him. He's a genius when it comes to training. He really is. He's so passionate. So appreciate everything that you guys do for the show. Hell yeah. Thanks for watching. Thank you. That's a good morning people. I wanted to have an excuse to show you this morning in Columbus. This is crazy looking. Did that building all stretching up into the fog? So I'm already starting to lose my voice. And it's only been one day. And today we're going to record some more of the sporting. We have Arnold coming at 1230. So I'll try to get some video for the for the vlog for that. We're going to try to record a podcast before that. We did two yesterday. They both turned out really good. And now I just like I said, I wanted to take a brief pause. Whoa, whoa. I seriously got dizzy right there. All right. So we are. Two. Two. Two. Two. And what is the plan for today, Rob? Well, this is going to be Saturday at the Expo, which is going to be the big day. We get this out of the way and it's easy sailing on Sunday. So it's going to be hectic day. There'll be a lot of people. We're going to have some good podcast today. We're kind of running gunning with guests. And it's going to turn out really well. I already know it is. Dusty. How did day one go? Day one went awesome. It was busy. And the way it's expected, we, we made Nikki go find a piece of equipment. It was awesome. Right in the middle of her cardio. And we've we've polished it now. That's it. Nikki literally saved the same thing for us. Here. Right. So I got the jack for the winter. I'm like, what the hell? And I'm looking at an already. I can't tell if this means to get the pop stage kid. You don't like, you don't like, you don't have the jack. I mean, you don't have a hand is hardy. I put the jack in. And you walk it off. You should not. And already go something to be effective. Like, this is a deck. This counter place or what do we do it? We don't. Yeah. I'm fucking unplugged, man. I'm sure you're going to punch this and run this one. I'm not a pose. Okay. So day number two here at the Arnold. And it is a lot busy here now. We're going to do a podcast with Sean Clery in a first. We're probably going to try to get Sean Ray on after that. See, like, every business getting crowded in literally today is just begun. It's going to be wild. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. That's it. We got a lot of things. We got a lot of things. We got a lot of things. Oh, so we got it. It's always hard. I couldn't see everyone. I haven't seen it so long and then. Now, yeah. We got the best after. It's the only way we get through this weekend, especially today. It's Saturday. It's crowded. We got to relax. Or if I take a bump in something, just take a bump in something. Just take a bump in something. So I need to narrate this part. We were told, like, okay, 1230 Arnold's coming through. And I missed getting to meet him last year. So I'm pumped. And I'm like, all right. This is going to be great for the video. We're going to get Arnold on the video and when you know it, he ends up taking a wrong turn. And he didn't show up. So we went back to our normal stuff. They're like, okay, he's going to come back at three o'clock. And I ended up missing it again totally. I was exhausted. And I needed to get some food. And I laid down for 20 minutes in the back when I don't even know who took this picture of me. But yeah, this is where I was while Arnold came to visit the booth. Fonto? Oh, I'd have to like refresh my view. But follow. Will you retlock him? No, he's not in touch. Oh, he's not touch. Oh, he's talking about the arm over the other hand. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He's talking about this. That media. So we're getting close. Third place. We got to bring us some food. We got to bring up the phone. We're good. We got to get that out of your larry. And of course, we only wanted to show what this guy beat him from the overall. So they was going to get sugar shone ready. That's what I'm all started. That's funny. So you just saw the air guitar. I was asking, I didn't have what song he's playing. No, I just saw it. So I started rolling the camera. You're going to be in your face. Oh. So check this pass out. I didn't know that I was going to actually be going to the show. Because I figured I was going to watch the free live stream. I had awesome seats. It was great to see James up there. He looked so good. Everybody really looked so good. And overall it was a great show. So I'm really grateful that I got a chance to attend and hang out with everybody. Man, this was a freaking blast of a weekend. And the reason I put this thing together is I figure a lot of you guys don't get the chance to go to these things the way I've gotten to. So I wanted to try to share that energy with you. So thank you guys for watching this stuff. There's a little bit more left. I'll roll a little bit of this footage. But you know, obviously you can see the stage footage from a lot of better sources than myself on. Honey. Chew. And of course because of YouTube I have to edit out any kind of music that might be in the background here. So like we'll just make our own way. Dun, dun, dun, dun, dun, dun. That's a hundred grand board coming to life here. We believe we have people respond from the 80 raise of prize money. It's 75. We'll have to fly that, but 500 grand! Who is not going to do the Arnold next year? That's a piece of nasty. All right. So it's the last baby Arnold. And I'm heading to the booth late. I just mess up on the UFC fight. I don't know what his name was. And we're talking about psychedelics for about 10 minutes. I'm supposed to be setting up. We're going to try to nail through as many more podcasts as we can today. Maybe I'm freaking excited because this has really turned out to be a great weekend. So I hope you guys enjoy all the content we're putting out. And if not, that's okay too because I think we're all having a lot of fun doing this, but... Alright. I got a head in. Now this gym, Lico equipment is the freaking bomb. And as a home gym owner, I absolutely love it because I could put their hacksquat in their leg press in the space that just my hacksquat takes up. I'd love to have a bunch of this stuff. And this is what the booth looks like behind the booth backstage Sunday towards the end of the week. What's your name and where you from? I'm Brent Penny. I'm a wife, Heather from Dallas. Heck yeah. These guys have done an amazing job this weekend. This is the work that goes in to allowing us to have all that fun. Running dusty, they're out gal eventing now and having fun, drinking coffee or whatever else they're doing eaten food. It's going to be on where he has cigars. We're moving through this hotel in the Expo Center trying to pack all the stuff up. The life of an AV person. It's kind of sad at the end of the Arnold because it was so busy in here yesterday. And now we can see the carpet. It's empty. I don't know. What do you think? I mean, next year needs to hurry up and come so that way you can have another one. Traia was the last athlete at the booth. I would not have been here had I not been unpacking courts. Right. I just wanted to make sure that the none of the team need it help. I usually do me but I'm like, you know what? I want to make sure everybody's good and yeah, get out of my body. This is what happens when you stay long. They start rolling up. You want to play it as so much money. You got it. Did you have good weekend? It was pretty cool. It was like every year it gets better. I'm better. We got it. And I got my recolors because I've been talking all weekend. Oh yeah. The voice is funny. No shit. You were an unstar. That's that. I think I may have taken one break a day for about 20 minutes. Just a week. But I'm in awe. It was so much fun.

I told him this is his stage and everyone else is visiting. Oh, here we go. That's what I'm talking about. Okay, see we should have had her on a long time ago. All right, exactly what I expected. Okay, so what's your, your, your advice to everybody who's going to bet money on the show tonight? What's your advice? Should have been on me. Should have been on me. That's it. It's a very wild little experiment we're doing here. Yeah, yeah, this is. Like we're literally doing what we would normally do. You know, streaming out, you know? Yeah, literally doing what we would normally do. I'm just going to ignore, I'm just going to have to ignore this. Are we live yet? We're recording. We're recording. Yeah, that's crazy. You know, it's funny without any announcement or anything like that. You just like put me on the spot. Boom, my phone. Here we go. Yeah, what you said down to the sea. Okay, well, welcome to the mutant booth at the 2023 armor classic. All right, you know, I mean, I expect a dusty to be here. But last minute, Scott's here too. So we're not all in focus arts here. I prefer to not be in focus. Dusty's in as much focus as we want. Yeah, I would say. Hey, Nikki, can you bring that camera around just a little bit more? Still a little bit. Yeah, like, bring the whole thing. There we go. Here that. There we go. And then, England, yeah. There we go. That looks good. She knows her angles. I might need you again. That might be too good. And that, that I guess looks all right. Okay. So this is what we're looking at around. We're looking at that. Okay, that's not bad. We're looking at that. You're going to get bigger. I've got to get on a good arm shot there. Scott, unintentional. I'm happy about that. And then we're also looking at that. Okay. That's like everybody out here. Okay, so we see like what's going on. Scott, so I have to, I have to thank you Scott for you. Put in a ton of work to set this up. And I know we're doing this kind of experimentally. Yeah. But wow. Like, you, you did a lot. I saw you over here, hustling. You were. I'm still sweating. I just wanted to see other things. I didn't bring up the opportunity shirt. Yeah, but I wanted to continue representing something. I had to get the money on it. You could have just asked me, wait boxes of shirts. Like right back there. It's too late now. You know, I didn't want to interfere with your fashion. I'll be peeled by tomorrow. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, dry after this. So I have to remind everybody who's watching the recorded version of this. That will go up on YouTube. Yes. To like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. There you go. See, that felt funny to do live because it applies to the people watching later. Yeah. You know, let's go. Hey. We got some people hanging with this. There's no bell. We're going to go. There you go. So out of the two people standing here right now. Are either of the listeners of the podcast. Yes. One out of two. There you go. There you go. There you go. There you go. There you go. 50% 100%, we've got a 50%. So sorry. Probably should tell people what is this. So we just wanted to see what it would be like to do a live broadcast. Yeah, it fully exposed to the room. You know, with like everyone right up against us. And you know, some of the listeners are coming by and you know, it is see how it went. You know, see what we see what we can do. You know, real quick. Set it up. You did a great job. Thank you. You know, if we get people involved, We have a few people standing here. We should totally get people involved absolutely. Who's your favorite guest ever Josh? No pressure. I know he watches. Jay. Jay. You said Jay. Jay. Jay. Jay. Jay. That's a good answer. Well, we had some trivia. Didn't we? We did have some trivia. We actually had two trivia stories. One of them happened in Russia. And one of them happened in Ohio. Okay. And so out of the four people, plus Nikki, you kind of five people that we have watched. We want you guys to vote. Did it happen in Ohio? Or did it happen in Russia? All right. Here we go. What is the thing? This is Ohio. So Russia. The first story. Actually having here, I'm going to pull this up so that I can read a little bit of this. Let me see. I got too many windows open. Don't worry guys. I closed all the portal. It did happen in Russia. No, no, no, it's because it's not in Ohio. Yes. I know both the stories actually, Scott. You know the story. Yeah. Here's the first one. And let me pull this up here. And I'll pull this up to the people who are watching it home. Oh, it might give it away. It gave it away. Because it's not a bad idea. It doesn't say anything. So in 1929, who was Eugene the money? In 1929, the trifter who died of natural causes was involved by a local funeral home. And then put on display in hopes that someone would be able to identify them. He turned into a roadside attraction. Reportedly some 15 million people stopped by to see Eugene's corpse over the next four decades. He was put on a couch and left in a neighboring building for 40 years. Until he was finally buried in the city paid for it. Yeah. So we have to both. Did that happen in Russia? Or did that happen in Ohio? And now we give him to begin the second story now. Do we have to do it? We have to do it in the second time. Okay, one at a time. So show a hands. Didn't happen to know Ohio. We got one, two, three, four, five. We need to be people. Seven. Or did it happen in Russia? And Ohio must be hard for. What? Oh, I should have flipped to the audience. We should have been like this. That was good. That was good. That's okay. That's all right. Okay. Do we tell him around? We'll write no. We did second story. It's just second story. Second story? Okay. I remember the second one. I got the second one here too. I've actually got it like, uh, glued up. Gued up. Yes. Going up all the cows. Yeah. Going up all the cows, Ron. So here's the second story. And this has to do with dairy farming. And now the question in case anybody's just walking up. Did this happen in Russia? Or did this happen in Ohio? All right. Here we go. So, uh, let's see. This has to do with virtual reality. The herd, they use these virtual reality cameras, right, Ron? At these cows. Yep. They said the herd don't be our systems adapted to the structural features of cowheads. And we're showing unique summer field simulation programs. Now the idea of this is that they would then because they were happy. They would produce more filthy cast. What? They did. It worked. So they had cows with VR headsets on them. And they were producing more milk. Did that happen? In Ohio. What's again? We're going to do a vote here. Or did that happen in Russia? Ohio. Or did it happen in Russia? Let's see. Show it. Let's go with Ohio first. We got one, two, three over there. Real high. Real high. Real high. And now, did it happen in Russia? Oh, got Russia. Three, four. Russia. Okay. So what was that? Three Russia? Yeah, yeah, it's stuff like that. Ohio. So how do we do this now? Do we just give it a minute? There we go. It's just fine. You're Jane the mummy. Yes. And Ohio legend happened in Ohio. Which that's why she looks new. That's why she knew. You knew this. But they should know. They live here. Yeah. And the VR headsets on the cows was in Russia. VR headsets. I feel like they're ahead of us on that. I would think the cows would be here. So now does to you. We need to be our headset for you. So the ear more productive. That's how you're going to happen. But I would like to be left on the side of the road. Yeah. That would be sick. I'm good with that. I learned a lot about this incredible state researching some of the fun stuff. Did you get this show? Yeah. What else did you learn? Well remember I forgot Dave Rower's from Ohio. So what? Remember I forgot Dave Rower's from Ohio. Oh yeah Dave Rower. You know. Fairly cows. Be born here. But whatever. And Steven Spiel's birth. Spiel's. Yes. Also in Ohio. Yes. There you go. I got to go in on it. We get the overrun. We got some overrunters. We actually got a bunch of questions too. Okay. But I also have some pictures of a lot of competitors that are competing at the heart of class. Well we just watched the classic pre-judging. Yeah. Like awesome seats. Literally like feet from us. We're sitting right here. And if you just like vote right there's the stage. Yeah. Pretty awesome. But I'm going to be walking around here. We watch the wellness while we're setting up. And watch the classic while we're waiting. It's not some figure. It's all at all. You know. So. What do you guys think tonight? I'm I'm still going to go with. My call of Nick Wayne in the show. I don't want to change my prediction at the last minute. So I'm going to go with that. What about for. What about for. We got a really project. That's the. What about. There you go. I'm going to say. I'm going to say. I'm going to say. Ramon. I don't think it's that tight. You know, because that tight. There are a couple poses where I thought it was tighter than before. Okay. But I'm going to say. Ramon. He's too sliced. I got him when he's the reason. Yeah. Slice that this had and so I'll put together. I thought that. Er is actually. Had a bigger. Back double. Right. Like he he's you know what I mean. Er has a bigger back double. Yeah. With the total detail post to pose. Yeah. I do not too much for me. Yeah. You know what I mean? We had some audience questions that they sent in. We did. We did. I want those. All right. Let's see. Let's see. I'm going to. I'm going to. Start here. And by the way, you know what we should take. Any audience questions. Any one who shows up and they went and he's got a message. But love the podcast. But as much as dusty loves it because he's a free. This is more of a comment. And I went and they can top it out of it. Because he's a freak. The idea of body building was it for free. It was supposed to be the perfect aesthetic muscular physique. Supposed to be a body that everyone wants to have. Unfortunately, it's been hijacked like judges that won free. Well. Can you comment? I think it's been hijacked by fans who won free. There you go. Yeah. At the end of the day, that's what pays the bills. I mean, it's popular as plastic is and all those not love it. There's a reason that open body building isn't at the Xbox. Because fans will pay the CEO of the body building because at the end of the day, like Jose said, they're all freaks. But everyone's come see the bearded lady. Once in a freak is first and year and at this show, I think that's like welcome. Yeah. Yeah. It's the natural progression of everything. I don't really necessarily subscribe to the idea that body building was ever supposed to be about the perfect physique. You know what I mean? Like what other people would want. I don't think that was ever really like. I'm a real thing. It's always going to, you know, just even think of Arnold when Arnold was winning. Not everyone, you know, that wasn't necessarily true either. He was still considered, you know, ridiculous monster to so many people. So it wasn't like it used to be appealing to everyone. It never really was. Yeah. So I don't really think that that's a factor that I would lean into. Yeah. Because Arnold is only appealing now because we've gone so much further. We've been looking back and saying, oh, that was achievable. It's also like that. Right. So when people say, well, you know, Chris Bumsteads, the Rizzi's popular is that's something you can do. No, you can't. Yeah, I know. Oh, you can't. You could do Bumsteads, and as well as you could do Nick Walker. Yeah. Yeah. You're not going to be... Stop it. Oh, I got it. Chris, stop it. No way. Stop it. I'm going to tell you about it. What's going on? What's going on? I don't know. I don't know. I can't believe it. I don't know. What are you doing here at the Arnold? Looking good? Looking fly? You got the cutoff plan off the going on right now. I'm here with the airplane. So. Oh, nice. Your shoe. You're right now. There you go. There you go. I didn't even know you had shoes on. Are you guys training your feet, too? I'm training my feet to be beat up clubs by wearing these shucks. I know you probably hate these things. Little, the toe box is too narrow. The ramp is on and it doesn't have to towards them. Tell me more. Tell me more. Look at exhibits so much more power. Like the tendon on that big toe runs all the way up through the cap both way into this backside of this knee right here. So we've got control of the knee. It's ability. It also creates the parts of your foot and your ability to express your power. Like we spend a lot of time like on machine trying to target muscles in different ways. But that's our key into this like our connection to the crown. In our ability like our lack of strength there people want to chase the things all the time. Like I've got a knee pain. I've got back pain. I've got all the, like you're always trying to chase this. What if you woke up every day and went my elbow hurts? It's a little sore. I'm gonna ramp it with an elbow ramp. Right. And it feels better to does right? Right. But what would happen if you did that every day all day as long? Yeah. You're arm and you weak. Right? And then you start having problems elsewhere in your body. Right? We just plan simple. And so when we package up and don't use that, what is the body? Do you know? The herologically after those muscles give peak. And you're trying to try to move around it. What happens is the body starts trying to protect it. So it starts inhibiting the range of motion. Right. That's why when people squat like shit they have very little hip mobility. Right? That's why everybody seems that have like ankle mobility problems. But your foot's fucking weak. No one there. No one there. Right? And then it also reduces your power output. Now that's the money. Right. So if your power output is reduced and you're trying to do squats. You're trading deep. You're trading to 80%. Yeah. You're not even, you're not even taking advantage of everything you can do. Like, well, how do you guys, you question, how do you feel about, I don't know if I've heard people call it like when you put your foot on the leg press. And you kind of curl your toes like a raptor foot. Like to create like a solid. What? You know what I mean? Yeah. So, you know, they're creating tension in the system that way. But you need to be able to use your foot in all of all its avenues. So we need to be able to spread the toes out. So you would rather spread the toes out. You want to spread and you want to be able to press it. Push down with that. We also have to have flexibility. So like if that big toes lack in the flexibility that immediately you're going to have some inhibition all the way up again through the function of the knee. Okay. Okay. There's your quad. There's your abs. There's everything. So someone not do that. It's more about what I'm trying to say is as a whole, you just need to spend some time using your foot so that it gets stronger. So the best thing you can do is a bodybuilder. So when you time you're doing cab raises. You can't get shoes off. Actually, you're going to raise the ball the way through the ball. You're foot. And then let it stretch and open all the way down. Make sure that your whole thing goes to the up to 10x of time. Then like build the strength and function of that one. All the certain rotated around. And you're going to see your potential for strength. Go up. And your tightness and your injuries. All your issues kind of kind of go down. Awesome. So. So. So. Magic. How I get lifted. It's bought out of a thousand pounds. We had a lot of fucking shit. I get those pair of boots. Right. We're going to be a fantastic. Right. You can see how close you. My voice. Jack. I have control of it. And you know, I'm somebody and I don't do mobility work. And I get close to probably doing this pledge right now. So it's quite an end of 2000 pounds of reps. Right. So so where can they get your shoes? Where can they get your shoes? I'm like a. So. Awesome. Awesome. So. So. Thanks, man. I love the idea. That's a lot of. I'm not. You're not. Honey. Grandpa. So if not, like, just taking your shoes off, you can spend some time. Like, do some of your accessory work, your warm-ups around your house. Just spend some time outside of the show as the answer. Yeah. I probably shouldn't say that. I have an issue. We do more. It's just. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Thanks Chris. We appreciate it, man. Well, that's heavy on the show. That's heavy on. Thanks. Especially appreciate it, man. This guy is going to do something. Oh, say. Come here. Come here. Right now. I really appreciate. I'm really happy to be Chris. I'm really happy to be on the street. Great. You're going to go down to the show just like this. What's up there? What's up there? Are you guys all doing? What's happening? We got Jose here. What's up there? What's up, buddy? I'm good. Jose doesn't need a chair. I'm not going to say this. You guys stand. What's going on here? I'm sure. What's up, buddy? Yeah. I think Ramon's got it. It's pretty pretty good. But I tell you. This is probably the biggest superstar in the division. Like, like, other than folks that he's posing. He's posing. He's posing. He's posing. He's posing. He's posing. He's posing. He's posing. He's posing. He's presentation. He sets everything up. He's so fun to watch. He poses bigger than he is. Right. Ramon's clearly bigger than him. But there's a few poses where you're like, I don't know. Right. When they turn around, Ramon was just so ridiculous that they kind of ended there. Right. Detailed. Yeah. And Ramon's gotten better. He's better than he was at the Olympia. His presentation is better. Right. He's making those improvements. He's still very interested. And he's fresh to this sport. You know, he doesn't have a better roundle on him. But I think he's winning here. He's winning here. What if we got to ask him how to see the the open go in. Without seeing anybody up. Well, I've seen one guy, so much. So really, first the foremost unbiased to Sean Clarine. Right. I think it all things considered. every little new one, somebody building Sean is the top two or three in the planet of any high of any division of anything. Sean, you could argue higher. You know, but let's see, let's see what they do. He's a hike in a herd of that much. Sean is so well put together, so balanced, so much muscle for that frame. If anyone is off, Sean beats him. It's unfortunate that we have to say it that way if anyone is off because they're just bigger versions of him, but maybe not as good. It's one of the craziest lineup issues I've ever seen. Like this particular lineup with that particular, with Sean at this particular point in his career, you know, but would have been any other year, but it's this year. He's two times he's the best. And it like, and he's improved. Yeah, improved. That's the most important thing. He's gotten better. Now I competed with the music all the time. Yeah, so he was certainly not someone I was worried about at the time. But by my last show, my career, he passed me. He's right. And he's 10 times better than that now. Yeah. So I would not be surprised if he won. I would love to see him win. No matter what happens, I think that it's very possible that he steals the show. Very possible. He could steal the show. He could win the crowd. He could be Sean's evening regardless of the outcome. Yeah, well, I think he's going to win the crowd. Did you guys see this picture here? What's that? Did you guys see this picture here? Yeah, I don't put a whole lot of stock into the Instagram stuff, but you know, Mike, Brian just tells me, you're eight pounds heavier. You're not going to be better. Right? So I was sneaking into the 2012 and now he can be pounds heavier. Yeah. Sean's a smart guy. He brings this condition no matter what. Yeah. He's not going to be eight pounds heavier. He might be a pound or two, but he doesn't need to be a pounds heavier to beat bigger guys. No. He needs to be sharp. He needs to play his game and be smart. And that's what's going to win it for. Being bigger is not going to win it for. Yeah. But that said, I, I, it's dusty said there's a new guy in town and he's only been a pro a year today. And the amount of impact he's going to make in the improvements that he has made are so ridiculous like it's going to be shocking. I think it's like how much better this guy is very much. And then what we last saw and it could be so shocking that he beats everyone. Right. You know, and then not only that, but goes on to do things that the Olympia. Right. Well, we saw a photo. I'm having seen him every day for six weeks in videos and different I didn't know. Now I'm convinced. I'm a believer. You know, we'll see, you know, who I did a video yesterday about stamps in being 297 and my brain went the same place as I did with that picture Sean, like eight pounds heavier. I might, if Simpson is five six seven pounds heavier than he was at the Olympia, that's not good. Right. That's not a good thing. So I don't know why that was such a big piece of information. Like he needed, if he was 294 at the Olympia, he needs to be 284. And then I'd be like, oh, right, he might be on to something, but him being heavier doesn't do anything for his physical. He needed to be drier. He needed to be leaner. So you know, put on eight pounds and, and that's what didn't make sense to me. So if he is, let me tell you this right now, make a prediction. If he's 297, Andrew's going to be in probably Sean and likely next. Right. Okay. If he's peeled out of his mind, it's open boggace. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Well, Jose knows this shit and I know that he's seeing people every day. Yeah. I know Bob. I love it. And I know that you know people that's who's saying he's been open Sean. The show I did with you. All right. So people like I don't say it doesn't have to get down to 12. And he's going to be like, 220 on stage. I weighed myself today of the show. I was 203. I was like, 210 at the Olympia and went down even more. And not on purpose. I just was dining for another 70 feet. That's right. So and I almost won the show. Yeah. So the number on the scale is not the most important thing. Right. Right. Right. It usually tells me when people had so concerned about the scale that did not really in shame. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I hope that's not the case. Yeah. We could all get shocked. You know, it's going to be one of the most exciting Arnold's site I remember ever being out. What was the first time you came here? 97. Oh my god. We have a winner. Yeah. I was coming back then just to get drunk and party. Stop. Yeah. I'm an old man. I would just come here with my buddies and we walk around this heartfelt expo and we go to the show and then go out late night party in the corner and go to Titus after party. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Back then I was like really starting to see some of the people. She had a job with me here. Right. Right. You know, I was just here for fun. I mean, I would say did five of them and I didn't do any party and then we did a little bit of a party of that. Yes. But, uh, this is your right. This is the most excited event since I was on status. Right. Just the lineup and you know, having backstage access to Andrew, every day that's made it way more exciting because I watch podcasts like everyone else listen to people like not no way he's going to be skinny. He's going to look strong to come to condition and have no back. And my he's back is incredible. That's what I'm talking like he looks bigger. I thought he looked way bigger because of his conditioning and the photo that we saw exactly in from every angle. So it wasn't just that photo and I believe you guys know what you're talking about too. And if you're thinking the exact same thing I am, we must be on to something. We haven't discussed this. Yeah. No, no. We just we discussed it yesterday. I did that. So I got off the I got out of my I had my Uber. I have to walk out and walk and buy was Chris Lewis. I just looked I didn't know for you guys. I said I said I said boy look. I went to walk away with her now. Come here. I just shows me a good shop from the side of my head. Okay. Yeah. And then Chris said me some other pictures. I'm like all 10. Well now I understand. Well the concerns that people have like his hands is loose. I do not see them as an issue whatsoever from what I've seen. Not at all. Not at all. And he has one of the smallest ways on stage with the wide shoulders. So what is that done? He's great place. And crazy abs in all the shots. Everything. And you know what I mean? Like sometimes a guy's got such good abs. You're like mad at just helps in every shot. You know, even the quarter turns are just bricks. I know toss it's like everyone's supposed to have abs. Right? They're not supposed to be that big of a deal. Right? But that's how you know they're good. Yeah, they keep drawing your eye. Right? So it looks to me like a bigger rodent. Very similar. With the quad sweep in the crazy midsection. You know, but bigger. Right. That's extra. And Chris made a big good point to me the other day when we were talking. I was trying to play devil's advocate. Like, you know, he's so until bigger. And he's like, God, he's like, Sean wasn't the biggest guy when he won. He was just so perfectly put together in in a peat. Yeah. Did you put him tonight? Yeah. And I didn't want to win just if this guy's a bigger person of him. What can he do at this shot? Yeah. Doesn't have to feel he even. Yeah. Well, I'm just realistic. Of course anything can happen. But that's where I'm leaning on it. Here's a question for you. If how high does Clarita have to place for you to consider it? Like a massive success for him. Talk to you. I think he will play stop three. I've heard other people say that because there's no way all four of them are going to be at their best. Yeah. And I say the all four because here's talking statistically. Yeah. Yeah. You know, if she pitches in there and Nick is awesome. He might be his all-time best or he might be too flat. I like this. If a guy with a wide waist is flat, it's not a good thing. Right. And yeah. I alert that myself, the hard but so I don't know that it's he might be off. You know, by his standards. Sam to my be up. If I had to bet money, I'd say Sean is not going to be off in any way. No, that's the one guaranteed right. Conditioning wise, I think he might be the top. Right. You know. So I think he's going to be third anyway. It's nice. He's that good. Yeah. In the early reason anyone's going to beat him is because they're a bigger version of him. And I don't think three other guys are going to nail it to be better. There we go. Giants. There's giant killer shirts all around. Lots of giant killer shirts. All right. Thanks Jose. We appreciate it. It's great to see you guys. Awesome man. You know. I only seem to run into you here in the last couple of years. But that's a good thing. And you get in the center every time. I just want to I should say I'm trying to look. I'm trying to get a cover as Portzilla straighted eventually. On your bike or your skateboard. You're looking at you look great. Thanks, bad. Good to see you. Good. It's. Thanks Jose. Jose Raymond. Thanks, bad. Appreciate it. Cheers. A little drop in with Jose. You got to love a breakdown from Jose because you know he asked other people their opinion and you get you get like opinion but you don't get all the structural support that he gives for his opinion. Like his opinion has foundation. Yeah. It has like a concrete base. It has stuff built upon it. You know, if this this solid structure and then Jose's opinion is on top of it. That's how I see it. Yeah. There's a chance that Jose is competing against whoever is talking about. Right. Oh nice. Oh boy. Right. Yeah. Made with a cover. You're about to fall. He's talking about like going against the ball. That will be the time. You know. Yeah. Yeah. Seeing these people up close when it matters. Yeah. You know what I mean? So I appreciate that. You know. Hey. So, now that we now the way I'm the final answer of who is winning. We can just move on with y'all. Yeah. Yeah. We have one last question. All right, let's see it all. We got you. I have one. I'm calling up questions. Yes. These are the ones that have the story. Oh, this is kind of funny. I'm just very blessed. Somebody commented and said, The leadership team and JetCamp, G-T-T-P, shared their press release this week. Outlining their five-year plan, Apparently the objective number one is to have as much knowledge as we're on. Good not be done. Good not be done. I had someone contact me. Remember when I was talking about ChatGBT and how I didn't want to answer certain questions? Yeah, yeah. I have to try this. He told me that you preface the question by asking ChatGBT to pretend it doesn't have rules. Oh, wow. If you say, if you're pretending you don't have rules, and then ask it in the question, so I can't wait to try that. Yeah. See what happens. That's amazing. All right, what else do we have here? Um, and this question. You guys want to business question? True. And we want to give you a question for the next. It's just bodybuilding. And if you guys see any bodybuilding, then we want to talk to you. That's walking by. Rip. You get a really weird way. I think it looks. I don't know if you can see that. I don't know if you can see that. Look at the main names. All right, question for the next. Just bodybuilding. Because I want an opinion from a few guys that actually run business. What is the last way to ask for a raise? Can't work. The guy's been working at this company for seven years. All right. And if you find out that a guy who's been working there for three years, just making more than you. One of the things that makes very different. One of the first thing is doesn't matter how long you've been there to put the other person. It doesn't matter how much that a person makes. The question mark is, what value do you bring to make you worth more money? Because I find that the idea that you've been there for a longer amount of time to me, doesn't mean anything. I mean, the company that I bought over time, I passed every employee that worked there to become their boss and like a year and a half. They're working. So I wouldn't worry about the other employee, but I wouldn't ask myself, what am I doing now that wasn't doing two or three years ago. It's worth value to company and present that to the owner of the company and show them. This is what I'm doing, but I wasn't doing. This is why my worth is worth more money. And this is how you can prove it to yourself. And I made doing $250,000. And all I'm looking for is one percent of the need. Yeah, I promise if you prove you've made a more money, I'll tell you more about that. That's a great answer. Dusty, Dusty's good to be aggressive business questions. Yeah, Dusty's not going to get underpaid. It is all about value. You know, all the time and stuff doesn't necessarily matter. There you go. Scots prepared. Look at this. Wild up, there it is. I don't have a lot. So we never got back to, did we never finish that conversation about being in free? I won't be in a free. Yeah, free. I realized this. I wanted to, I guess I just wanted to come back to because there's one thing I wanted to say. I know that. No matter what. I don't care where a guy like the rolling, places, or branch. I don't care where he blazes. But you would hear more people cheering for those guys than anybody else. Mark is real. And then I was like, Mark is real. Yeah. So if I pick it, it's not just the judges. It is the people, which is what you said. Yeah. But then we saw Christophin. And I didn't get to say that. So Christophin, squad, like a thousand and one pound with three rents. Yeah, crazy stuff. He did some amazing strength shit. It's like how do you do that? A thousand and one pound for three. Yeah. I heard his story about how he trained for that. I heard him talk about how he trained for that. Yeah. It was very impressive. Very impressive. What's the absolute most you ever squatted? Six plates. Six plates. So what is the... Five 85? It's a lot of ways. For raptor, single. Just a single. I would have been, I would have been 24 years old. Twenty five years old. And then you got smarter. Yeah. I did a press single. And then I knew that I actually... I felt like... The pressure in my head was actually what was the most dangerous part of the whole thing. Because it was like a real scary single where I like... I couldn't have done ten more pounds. Yeah. I've said that before. I'm glad that that wasn't like five 86. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know that's the most serious squad. I know does he... you did that for rapt, didn't you? Yeah. I could always revel. I never did anything less than... I think maybe eight laps. Because I was understood that bodybuilding wasn't about that. Yeah. And the risk to reward me, sure, is wasn't there. But even for me, like we've talked about before, it's climbing in general. It was up no value to my percentage. I did. I just had a day one day where I was in the gym. And I was normally going up to five plates. Right. And trying to get like... My peak strength was like five plates for eight. Really good rapt. Right. And I was just feeling really great that day. So I did three rep warmups. I just saw them. And I see if I can get six for a single. Right. You know? You just make sense. That's how you would approach it. To find out. You did it. And then you got a smart ass. That's okay. Never again. Yeah. I recognize the risk. Even walking it back and walking it in. I wasn't used to, you know. That's the magic. I think the walk back is always loud. Because you take that first step back and you go home. That's heavy. Yeah. Yeah. I got one who does to here. Remember what that was like. I'm trying to get like desert eye masks. You can only break what season. What's that? You can only break what season. Right. To a desert eye mask. On that day. Man. Is it salt to season? Yeah. I guess it is. You're going to have to be salt. Yeah. That's easy. Yeah. That's the only option there. The most valuable mineral in the world. When you don't have it. It's not that it's fine under her. You need salt. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Over and under it. The last thing you want on a desert eye mask is to be flat. Yeah. That's all we need. That's all we need. You don't want to go flat. You're on the beach all the time. The last thing you want to be flat. Blue coast. Over and under it. I mean. For a mountain people. Over it. Yeah. They're not necessary for most people. What about body builders that want to cast. Simply check to see where they're at. I still think that's a mostly deep thing. I mean, I have people to do, but I never in my entire career that. I want. Yeah. We should interview some of our naughty and two. We should. We should. Literally. Come in. You're on the show now. You can't. You didn't even ask. You maybe watch us and show. No. I know he does. I talked to him. That's funny. Go on down here. Who are you? What's your name? Sam. I'm Sam. I'm Sam from not spelled. Tennessee. Knoxville. How many Arnold's you've been to? How many Arnold's have been to? This is the first one. First time. Damn. One season. I've been fighting. It's a little bit overwhelming. I've been a small town. So you don't see. I grew up with a fist. It's just many girls have drugs. It's what you're saying. We see plenty of that. But they just mean they look. That's so interesting. Oh. I saw an Instagram today. This girl put up, which is on a beach and says, I'm a Miami five. I'm a 10 in an Arkansas dollar general. And that's what you just made it take up. Truck girls, lovely. How long have you listened to the podcast? I've been here a few years now. Oh, you're kidding. What's I can see in the way three years? I'm asking. I almost said to the beginning. That's for the awesome time. Are you going to show it? No, I got the V-app. It's awesome. That's awesome. Who do you have winning the Arnold Classic? No pressure. No pressure. It's probably going to beat me. There we go. Look at that. Look at that. No pressure on the answer. No pressure on the answer. I did call Nick as well. Same here. I think so too. Updates. I think it's a boy grade. I see him last night. There we go. That's a good call. It's a good call. It's a good call. Beautiful man. I'll hit you. I'm the show. Now this is your first podcast. You've been on. This is awesome. I'm star struck right now. It's a fan boy. You know what's going to happen? You're going to rock away. You're going to take a five things you should have said. That's always happening. I'm going to make it up my stand. Awesome fan. What's good having y'all. Thanks guys. Hey. Thanks for coming. Nick rockers parents. Look at the crew. Why we did it. Does this next mom want to come and say a word? We would love to come. There we go. We got a room for one. Come around behind here. We got Nick's mom. Team rocker in the house. Hello. How are you doing this weekend? Are you excited? I'm very excited. You're back to not only defend. Right? But you know, two times. That's a big is a pressure on. Yeah. I think of me the youngest two time winners. That's a goal. I like it. She just said two time winner. Is that makes me look good too? I need this. Yes. So you have you seen like today's pictures. Hotel check-ins. They seem in person today or what? Okay. I just left them. What do you think? It's good. Hey. Does he need more rice? Is he after the or rice? No, I look great. No. Not a chance. Not a chance. I love it. I need to know. I know you're you're like heavily involved. You're in this circle. Yes. Do you know how many grams of carbs he's eating and all that stuff to her? Yes. I like that. That's stuff. Yeah. Okay. That's good. I don't care what he eats. Okay. I'm going to get what he eats as long as he wins. Right. You ignore the diet, but let's see the crunch. Right? Okay. What do you look at? What do you look at the most to judge whether you think he's at his best? Every day. Every day. I love the crunch. Oh, sorry. Sorry. I'll show you the back double. He's from the back. His inner thighs are shredded. Right. He got lines that have never been ever seen. That's what I want to hear. I want to know what the mom thinks. Yeah. Yeah. The detail stuff. You're going to see something you've never seen before. There we go. Now she's talking. Keep talking. I told him this is his stage and everyone else is visiting. Oh, here we go. That's what I'm talking about. Okay. See, we should have had her on a long time ago. All right. This is exactly what I expected. Okay. So what's your advice to everybody who's going to bet money on the show tonight? What's your advice? Should have been on it. Should have been on it. Should have been on it. So we love it. Oh, my God. We're so glad you guys came in. So outside of me. I went to get before. Do you have any idea? Yeah. We think it's going to be on my second stage for. Sean. I love it. That's a great show. I'm here to show. I've been read on some. That's amazing. Sean looks great. Yeah. Those two next to each other are like the two most complete. Yeah. Yeah. That's the exciting. That would be a fantastic picture. You know what I mean? Oh, this guy's battling it out. It's going to happen. Okay. Oh, there we go. Thanks. I'm sorry. You're here. I love it. I did a plan and you could kind of do it or anything like that. And after we're at like 70 food, that's what I'm just going to want. We're having a good show. No. It's. Probably cheesecake factor. Yeah. Okay. It's like a. In the pie one that's open. Right. It's just order pizza to the room. He won't eat pizza. Oh, okay. Not even tonight. Or it's far or night. Okay. Okay. Okay. Last time we won. We went to high. Okay. Okay. That's the post Arnold win. I have. It's not a bad call. Thank you very much. That's awesome. Yeah. Thanks for stopping by. I always watch. There we go. I know. I know. Whenever someone asks predictions, I always feel like there's ice on me from like, It's me. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hey. I was just happy to see them. You know. I've always been a footballer. Plus, we have the ball. See it the ball. See it the ball. See it the ball. The interview with the expo. Alright. Thank you. We should've got it on the show a long time ago. I know. Hold with you. Took her a few seconds to realize she could say, Whatever she wanted. That's right. That she just took real balls. Took some control. Okay. That was awesome. Yeah. Yeah. That's good. You know. And I was like, ah, they watching show. They are. They're burning. I was like, we said all that stuff. But we did good. Yeah, yeah. It's still the state and the good books long enough. We got a second visit. It's hard. How long we been on Scott? We've been going for 40 minutes. I've been in 40 minutes. OK. OK. Let's get those over on their strength. We didn't get them done. But else do we got to hear this? You're like, we need those. All right. Well, does this go to squatter? We're actually about the control. And wasn't pretty bad was that I can actually see. We only using it for likes. Because I mean, the bell spot does have a lot of other things I do with it. With their cells. You know, I'm not using the party. Yeah, it's different robots. They're going to touch a bed and you can put it on. But at the end of that, I still say, I actually have spots after all that BS. Yeah, I would still say hack for most people. But I will say that my beat up body really appreciates about squad. And I find myself wanting to finish with it all the time. A lot less pressure on the low band. Yeah, I just, you know what I mean? I can just focus. Just make sure I get everything done. It's a nice, bold, man exercise. But it's still spot. Yeah. Yeah. Here's my problem with the bell spot. Most people doing wrong. Yeah. I watch them pull off with their arms. Use any muscle on the world to get that way down. All right. Overrated underrated. The key strainer's hand or free. Why is that cut off? The shot of the trends. Oh, all those restaurants look great. That boat neck is a beauty. These strainers are overrated. Which door? Really overrated. Because there's this not enough coverage. You can't, I don't want to go anywhere in the strainer. Not enough shirt. Both necks are underrated. Absolutely. Because it's nothing better than a great set of traps. You're making out of the shirt. Plus the peck line, the peck line, the fearing of the little bit. If you're even 50% yoked, you got to get a lot out of a boat neck shirt. If you have good traps, you don't have to have arms on the boat. No, I'm really hoping they really come back. Because I still have some traps. Bring them back. You can bring them back. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. I don't know. What don't know? What? All right. I can't rate that one of the shows. What? I don't even know what this means. I don't even know what this means. I don't find fighters. What is that? Feetail, fire fighters. Fire fighters? I have no idea what they're doing to me. They've become so. I'm afraid. I didn't know we were ready. As long as you can get me out of the building alive, you are underrated. She doesn't be pretty strong. Yeah. You're going to recklessly drag me by my foot down the stairs. I don't care. Just can't me out. I'm fine. I'm underrated. Sorry. Uh. Okay. Give it that mustache. That's a mustache. I have to fire fire. I have to fire fighters. All right. What? You got some food. Stop. What did you become a musician? What? What? So is it? It's not a me like that. You really didn't have to. Why don't we're on the boat? Like, almost like, you know I'm wrong. Once you're both going to Sandorate or overrated. It's way overrated. It's way overrated. It's way overrated. I don't know the attraction to raw fish. I don't get it. Yeah. I love sushi. I still have to agree with my name. Because it's something people like, It's almost like you have to have it. Oh, you like sushi. Like, it's a course on you like sweet tea in the south. I take a little bit of pride in being one of the bodybuilders. It doesn't eat sushi. And doesn't have tattoos. You already sushi. No, I don't like raw fish. I don't eat sushi. I can't do it. Like, cook it. Fry it a little. Like, give me a little. Give it a hit. Give it a hit. Give it a hit. What else are we going here? There's more food. Five guys burgers. Oh, baby. Way overrated. That's a grease mess to me. I don't even follow that. I looked up the nutritional facts. That's five guys. And it's like a huge load. Like how many times a fat or a thousand calories? Right. You know, proper, or a false. You're a dog. I really like going to five guys. Yeah. I really hate reading about the nutritional information. Yeah. I'm five guys. Yeah. I should be illegal to have nutritional commands or a place like that. I'm sure. You should Google. You should Google. That's kind of cool. We got a guest. Oh. I'm David Carlson. Hey, what's going on, man? Did you get your first Arnold? Yes, it is. What's a highlight so far? I got to be no. There's a one, Jesse James. That's for you. Awesome. Yeah. And I hope to meet Alex. You man. That's the guy I want me to. We're going to try and meet a sea bomb later, too. Okay. Make sure you get the real sea bomb and not that imposter. Don't let him sign anything unless you see his ID. I'm talking about. Yeah. And my step that he's going to be competing tomorrow at the martial arts for Filipino Stickfighting. Oh. Yes. It's kind of like Star Wars. Yeah. I love that. Yes. So this is coming on. You should be on YouTube and Spotify. Yeah, to be on YouTube and Spotify. Wow. Okay. So what's the name of the podcast again? Yeah, there you go. I don't know what to be doing. So I want to make a big video. I don't know what to make. They've been bodybuilding media. There you go. Subscribe to think that you're bodybuilding media. There you go. I want to support you. I want to support you. I'm already converted. Subscribe to Big, Big D-Loads. The IJD, E-E-L-O on YouTube. So the best music on YouTube. There you go. There you go. All right. There you go. There you go. There you go. Drop in. Say hi. Push your stuff. I love it. There you go. It's time. This is the modern, the modern age here. They know what they're doing. No, it's the killers. He's a press. He's a press. He had everything ready to drop right at the end there. Do we really need dusty for the show? I'm out. Yeah. If he goes into another coma, I'm just going to call him. Yeah. He's ready. Okay. That was actually. See you guys. That was amazing. We should get more guests. We should get. I like that. Yeah, no. I was a pro. Do we have any more over-enders? Yeah, let me see what else we got here. So. Just a random comment. It's not a mission. Arnold's for a special. What was that? Arnold's for a special. I think they actually listened to the show. Because I went to the bathroom earlier. It was like. I was like. I was like. There was a great comment on the last episode. It said, runs the description of the Arnold classic bathroom. It reminds me of every power lifting knee ever. I was like. All right. About lifting straps, first ribs. I got this stuff. You need it. Operating. We're underrated. Strap. To me. I don't get the verse of grabbing. Oh, he's a small time. I know he's in. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Yeah. You know why? Because regular straps break. I get the leather one. I switch the verses. Yeah. Outside of me losing. We're good. Yeah. Right. But it has a hole. I think they're drastically underrated. They're about to go. He's going. Why would you want to limit your lift on your life? Or on strength. You know, for your back. Absolutely. Let's see. Yeah. Raps are important. But I'm a strap guy. Beautiful. You got this guy on? It's very difficult. We get jam on. I think we should. Come around for a minute, Jim. We've got to come on the show now. We've got to get him. We've got to be a special guest here. There you go. There you go. Jim McMan. The CEO. Are you still CEO? Still call yourself CEO? Well, I'm eating CEO. Till about five o'clock today. They will find out. Technically, it can make up any title you want. Right? You could just be boss man. Boss man. Yeah. I get called a lot of names. Yeah. I know. You need to buy dust here. So I'm not going to say any of those here. No, no, no. Yeah. I was never called any of those names. But since I met Dusty. Yes. Since I met Dusty. There you go. So Jim, we also just want to introduce you to our audience here. The owner of Mutant, the owner of Fit Foods. Obviously, Dusty and I've been working with you for a long time. And now Scott knows yeah. And so when we say Mutant supports podcast, you know, it's this guy. Forcing the company, forcing the company to support us. I have no choice. Well, usually it's everyone embarrassing me to do it. If I don't answer to you, we're all in trouble. There we go. So we have a wrong. It's very helpful. You know, so it's why you're going to let you guys do your good thing. Right. So I'm out of here for you. Well, I will see it tonight for pre-judging because apparently you have my ticket. Apparently I have a change of plans for you and I. Oh, okay. Oh, here we go. Oh, okay. And I'm not going to tell everybody what's going on. Okay. But it. Okay. Okay. I can't wait. I can't wait to see what I'm not prepared for. Story of life. You like it. Okay. Cheers. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, buddy. I'm going to tell you what the only thing I've got. I'm going to tell you what the show is. Jim McMan. Oh, man. Oh, man. Oh, man. Oh, man. Oh, man. Oh, man. Okay. We're going to do what we do. Yeah. Yeah. Everybody here. We're going to do this. We're going to do this. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. It's getting louder. You guys want to wrap this thing up? Yeah. We're wrapping up. We want to take everyone who's going to see this at home. Because it's going to go right up on YouTube when we're done right. Yup. And so everyone at home remember like share, subscribe, comment, and there we go. There we go. Thanks, Scott, for all that. I'm going to be a couple of you went through setting this up. It's been really good. We've shared how much it's got. It's been really good. I might just go into the plums. And I'm going to miss Olivia. Phil, he's been my man, honey. And he got super loud. Wait, wait, wait. But you guys know we're right in the mess. It's like we're right next to this stage. So it's been really cool. There we go. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. David was on our show. Just like that. Yeah. Yeah. There. There. Yeah. Yeah. We'll see again and remember it's just bodybuilding.

You know, enlist into like, oh, this guy trains with dusty, you know, he's strong. He's lifted, you know, eight plates on the hack. It's like, but that's not who I am. I guess the thing is is that, but you could be. I think that a lot of us could be a lot stronger than we give ourselves credit for, is what it comes down to. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Think Big Bodybuilding Media. I'm Scott McNally. And today I'm here with Tommy Styles. If you guys have been watching the programs or I should say listing to the programs for a long time, Tommy, we had you on that head to be like, two, three years ago now. Was it? Yeah, it was the fall of 2017. I think, or I was getting ready for shows in 2017. So yeah, it's somewhere in there. Okay. And then we ended up meeting. So Tommy and I are both from Detroit. We ended up meeting out at Grand Rapids for the Western Michigan. And we both competed at that show. Which was cool. Actually, I stayed, I stayed with you at your room. By the way, thank you again for your hospitality. I appreciate that. And since then, I'm absolutely positive. It was a good time. Yeah, I hardly remember it because there was like so much, you know, there's so much it goes into a show. All I remember is like at the end of the night, I just passed the F out. And I was I was ready to sleep. But it was it was a good time, man. But I look back at that. And for both of us, I feel like a lot has changed. You know, I kind of took a couple years of not progressing as hard. But this last year, I've really taken a lot of the things I've learned. And I've been applying it to myself. And you never stopped. You've been pushing. You've made some tremendous progress since 2017. Not to mention, you moved out to Arizona. And you've been working with Dusty. And now you're one of his training partners. You guys probably recognized Tommy. If you haven't seen him before, if you weren't one of the old school OG listeners of Advices, you've probably seen him, you know, spotting Dusty or something. So we're going to talk about training today. We're going to basically create a case study of what our back training looks like and share with you the insights that we've developed. And hopefully, you guys will pick something up out of this. So I've been looking forward to do with this with you for a while, man. Yeah, no, we, you and I talk regularly about this kind of thing. And I'm glad we're getting together to kind of put it out there for people and see if we can help them out. Yeah, me too. So so where do we start? Because we kind of talked and game plan this a little bit. And before we actually get into the exercises, what was the word you used? I can't take credit for it, but it's a potential, a potential, a commosal that you're going to be training that day. Okay. And what does that mean? Exactly. Yeah. It was based, I've not to get scientific, but I, I looked at it as like you're basically, you're, that's your primer. You're getting some blood into the area that you're going to be working. You're establishing a connection between your mind and that muscle. So for what we're going to be talking about, it's, it's my muscle connection, a big part of it. And as body though, there's, we're not trying to move away from A to B. We're trying to stretch and contract weight from a starting point to a finishing point. So you need to be in tune with your body. I kind of said this to you before we started recording that proper body building training session is as much of a mental stress as it is a physical stress. Yeah. Because you have to be so in tune for every rep every set from start of the workout to the end of the workout. So that, that all starts with how you get warmed up, how you get yourself in that zone to train. And we're not talking about intensity at this point. We're just talking about like, all right, so we're talking about back today. How do I get connected with my last? And for me, I might do some bandwork, just some like put a band around a an object right in front of me and do some standing rows just drawing some blood kind of like you pump up for a show. Yeah. Backstage. That's kind of like what the tension work is for me. And I'm too into the degree. I might do some behind-the-neck pull-downs. Just to get things moving just to see, all right, where am I tight? What do I need to focus on to get warmed up? You know, shoulders. Every day is different. There's no real like thing I do every time I go in. But it's just kind of like a little 10 minute thing I do to get just to get the body of the mind where it needs to be. Yeah, I used to, for now, and I started right after that contest in 2017. I brought my pictures to the guys at Muscle Mines, which at the time, that was Dr. Scott Stevenson in Jordan Peters. We're both on that show. And we talked about the areas I wanted to bring up. And back was one of the big ones. And it was really kind of developing just more width to the lats. Really. Like my the density of the rhomboids were okay. But I wanted to develop more lat and I felt like the lats weren't activating well. So Scott's suggestion was to maybe do a pullover first. And so for about a year straight, that's all I did. It was like I'd start with a pullover. And it wasn't even like a heavy working exercise. It's more about what you're talking about where I just tried to get some blood in the muscle and try to get the lats activated. And in that way, then when I went, I'd normally I'd go to a pull down next and or a pull up. And when I got there, I already had blood in the lap. And it felt like it was it was easier to contract. I feel like one of the reasons that the muscle didn't grow well was because I had a hard time like learning how to contract it. You know what I mean? I feel like a lot of times that's the issue for people with a weak body part. Like hamstrings for me used to be weak. And what guess what? I couldn't contract them very well either. Yeah, not agree with that. I think if you're not a weak body part is usually one that struggles to be activated altogether. Yeah. It might be weak strength-wise too, but you're also probably only activating half as much as you potentially could be. So yeah, so I get where you're coming from and I get what you mean too about how it changes. Having tore my shoulder this last year, now I'm really aware of my shoulders any upper body work that I'm getting into. And I may take the theragon to them. You know, I may even do some mobility type work just to get blood in my shoulders to start. But outside of that, depending on how I'm feeling, I don't do too much to really get started other than just get into my exercise now. That said, I start really light. And I use that exercise to warm up and I ask myself like, okay, am I contracting? I want to keep visually doing this by the way, as I'm talking. Like, I'm, it's in my brain right now. I want to, but that's what I want to do is I want to try to focus on connecting to the muscle that I'm trying to activate. How am I sitting? What's my arm look like as it's coming down? What's the angle look like? What's contracting? That kind of thing. And like I said, I start really light, but then I slowly begin to work into it. Mm-hmm. No, I think so we both are on the same page. We're just trying to get our mind into the muscle, blood into the muscle before we get into the actual working set. So starting us out then getting into the workout, what would be the first exercise that you would use for back? I always start with a with movement. Okay. Something for width. So you mentioned pullovers. Um, I, if I have the option at the gym, has it, which I've gym just got one is a, it's a pullover machine. Yeah. We have the hammer strength, not a, or the hammer strength pullover. Yeah. We've been opening up with that. And, um, I mean, Doryn did that, his whole career. And I mean, success leaves clues. He had a pretty good back. So yeah. I like a pullover just because it's the only movement that activates the last that doesn't activate the biceps too. Mm-hmm. That's true because it's, you know, you're coming straight down and over. Yeah. So we'll open up with that. And with that one, um, I actually liked to let my elbows flare out. Okay. And um, my elbows aren't actually on the pads of that machine. Every pullover machine is a bit different. Yeah. But I just hold on to the bar and my elbows actually aren't in contact with the pads. Um, so, it, the biggest thing for people to realize, like, you can swing that machine down and up down and up and not even be activating your lap. So you have to actually, right teach people to do is contract your lap all the way down without even being on the machine. Just as I am now. And then emulate that when you're on the machine with the, with the load that you're going to use. Yeah. Um, and over time that mine muscle will enhance and then you want to be able to do a pullover without contracting your lap after you get used to it. Yeah. So you get into these working sets. How long does that? How long does that take? Like, walk me through, I guess, from the time you get to this pullover machine to the time you're actually getting to the working weight. Because I feel like that's something that we skip over a lot of times. And I find that some of my clients are confused as to what they need to do to get to that first working set. Yeah. Um, that I think the reason people get confused and it's hard for us to explain it because it's never it's never concrete some days you might need more than others and others you might need less. So for me typically it's, um, because there's two places to rack weights on the pullover machine. So I put two forty five on, then I put four forty five on, then I put three forty five on and then a working set will be four forty five's or four forty five's on each side. Okay. Total. Um, that'll be my working set. I'll try to get 12 and then dusty will force me through a couple extra give or take. Um, for work working or one of sets, either do it one of two ways. It's either they're all straight sets of like 10 to 12 same amount just like so I guess those would kind of be feeder sets. Yeah. Um, or I warm up in this and we talked about this. I warm up where it's like 10 reps then when I add weight, I'll drop to like six to seven reps then when I add weight, I'll drop to like four to five reps so your reps are decreasing as your weights going up just trying to conserve energy and strength for that work and set. So those are the two ways I'll use to warm up it just depends on what we're what movement we're doing. Yeah. That's, that's, I think that's, that's where I think it, it really does take experimenting. Like you said, it's never going to be quite the same. It depends on the day too. You know, some days you walk in and you're feeling strong. Other days and I think too like for me, I don't know if if age plays a role. I think age does play a small role to it. I think also strength plays a role because the stronger you are, the longer it could take to get to the heavy weight. You know, I agree with that. Um, I mean, I watch dusty does eight warm upsets before it gets still working so that just because he's working with such high loads. Yeah. So, you know, I get to get his dependent, whereas like, you know, some of my clients, I'll program for them and I have to take them to a count that they might only need one warm upset to be at a working weight. Yeah. So the concept I give or the description I give might not meet where they're at and they're journey yet. Yeah, that makes sense. And I think there's, you know, we had talked before, not on this show, but we had talked before about, and I've said this in other programs, I think there's two aspects to warming up. And that is the literal like getting blood into the muscle, getting your joints warmed up, you know, feeling it. But then I think there's also that central nervous system component that, you know, we've all lifted away, uh, for we'll say, you know, X amount of reps that that first working set. And then we go back to do the same set again, and it feels lighter that second time, you know, it's that central nervous system aspect that I feel like that needs to be keyed up in getting that marriage right of getting your central nervous system and the muscle warmed up, getting your body warmed up, and still having all of the, like everything left in the tank, you know, not burning yourself out too soon. Because we don't want to do, you know, 50 for 10, 60 for 10, 70 for 10, and then go to 80 for working set for 10 because, you know, obviously you're not going to get as much as you could of at the same time. It's, it's finding that balance where you say even in the tank, but you don't get hurt and you're ready, you know, it's all those things I guess combined. Maybe that's why it's hard to, to, to put that out there as to, as to what a warm-up should look like. Yeah, because I think it's just something you're constantly adapting and it's evolving as you learn your body more. You know, there's days where like a working way that I plan doesn't end up happening because I'm stronger that day, and you know, I'll do two reps with it, and I'll just rack it, and I'll just tell us, yeah, I need to go up. Yeah, it's just, it's not, it's, I'm stronger today or I'm at the flip side. I went in and days I thought I was going to get to a certain point and like, go, that today. It's, so, you just have to, you know, you just adjust. You're kind of calling it audible. It doesn't mean you're going to have a bad session, it just means you have to be in tune with your body. It's not there. You can't force it on that given day. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Now, I've been mostly starting with a pull down lately. Okay. And I've been doing things differently. I don't know if you saw the videos I recently been posting, but I feel like my pull down, I don't think it did a lot for me in the past. And I think that that was part of the issue that I feel like I was, I can't even tell you exactly what I was doing, but I was, I know I was pulling to like the top of my chest, almost to my neck, really. And I feel like I was probably activating like Terry's and possibly rear delts, you know, an upper back and I wasn't getting those lats. I found I've almost kind of, I get like a pull over action almost in the pull down where I keep my elbows. I think it's the, I was talking to Dave Smith about this and I think it's the path to my elbows. I keep him in closer now, more in front of me and I pulled down to like the solar plexus, even with like an overrated bar. I saw that video you posted it, it actually does now the invention and it does mimic a pull over the way your lats are moving. Yeah. I think the traditional pull over, even that bar is like everyone growth, they grab as wide as they can. Yeah. And for me, I don't know what your experiences, but it just ends up pulling on my bicep, which I get too heavy of a weight and I don't actually feel anything for the lats. Yeah. I could see when I when I do them the way you posted, I actually I might not, you know, the load might not be as impressive, but it's all lapt and start of the movement to finish. So I actually have to further that way for that pull down to the way you're doing. Every time I'm exercising to me, it's almost like a physical therapy where I'm trying to train this to contract better, you know, contract better each workout. So I guess the things I'm focusing on on that and you could tell me if you feel this way, I'm leading you because I know you do. But I try to get a really good contraction and I try to be honest and controlling the negative is best I can. I've seen your pull over and I feel like you guys are really controlling the negative all the way through. I feel like to me that maybe that's something that I don't think I focused on soon enough, but I feel like it's a game changer. Yeah. No, I learned a ton about negatives just from doing DC before and with Dusty and then anything you've ever seen Dorian talk about or seen in his videos was all about the negative building the mass of the muscle and I think it's it's easy not to do in the beginning of our careers because it's hard and it's not. You have to check your ego to be able to do proper negatives and then once you get strong with proper negatives, that's even more oppressive. Explosive concentrics is cool. I mean, I always appreciate that, but if someone can control away from start to finish, that's pure body building right there. So I'm not saying thinking as you, if I can't control the way, I mean obviously there's going to be a degree where you're going to use a little English with certain movements. We do need to build muscle. This isn't like your form shouldn't be so strict that you don't ever get strong. But it shouldn't be so sloppy that it's, you know, we're moving way for the sake of moving weight. That's just not what body building is. Yeah. Yeah, I've talked to a lot of the guys that I work with where we work out exercise technique. I start them out with a really controlled negative and I feel like that to me is the foundation and that after you can really get that down, then maybe you can start to loosen up a little bit. You know, it's like you can control a negative and still bring it, you know, still let it up pretty quickly. It's just a matter of like I think that that learning the rules before you bend them. You know what I mean? Right, that's a good point. I mean, I can't tell just by somehow someone's doing a movement if they're in control or not. Like, if you watch old videos of like Jay colored, Jay wasn't really slow slow with the negatives, but I guarantee he had a connection to his muscle the whole time through, you know what I mean? Like, if you're a seasoned veteran and like you know what speed you can control your the negatives that, it doesn't have to be like creeping up, you know, five count negatives. I just, for me, I have to have that slow slow count for most exercises just to keep that mind muscle intact or it just ends up the, I lose the point of the exercise. So if I don't do the pullovers and that slow manner, you know, I've been doing them for a long time, like it, the tension I can feel it mentally, it's not on the lat anymore. And it just then it shifts to my elbows and now I'm just getting tendonitis from driving downward instead of pulling with the lat. So it's all, it's individual. It's all about your experience with it. So you actually use like a tempo, you'll do like a, but would you say a five count? Yeah, everything's different. So for most of it's a four count. Okay. That's a lot of what DC is, at least the way dusty programs it now, for anybody that gets DC training for them, it's a lot of four count stuff. Yeah. Which is just a four, it's a count. It's just a method to like, it cadence to go to. It's kind of just like a tempo, like if you were tapping your foot, it's not seconds, it's not like you don't have to live and die by it, like it's not life or death, if you don't, you know what I mean? It's just a tempo to kind of like, almost like a rhythm to stick to. Yeah. So how does that go? Like, actually do it for me? Like, tell me, is it like one, two, three, four? Yeah. At the top of the rep, before a pull over, that's, that's, so you're going to go down, do your rep. On the way, once you start from the point of your contraction on the way up, it's four, three, two, one. By the time you get to one, you're going back down. Okay. Okay. Yeah. So that, it just meant to make you control that negative, that's all it is. It's not like I have to hold this for four seconds. Like four seconds on a clock is a, it's a long time. It's a long time. Yeah. Yeah. None of us would be doing the way to we're doing if we're actually doing seconds. I've been using three seconds for a lot of stuff. And that's, that's pushing it. I think. Because sometimes you'll think like three seconds. It's when you get to three, but three seconds is when you get to the end of three. So, you know, it's like, when you say three, that's the beginning of the third second. So it's more like one, one thousand, two, one thousand, three, one thousand, and you know, so it's like, it is. It's a long time, but I feel like lately I've been loosening up on that a little bit, but I think it took me doing that for a long time to be able to get it if that makes sense. No, I get it, just remember saying, well, I had to, I almost had to overcome and say with my negatives, just to learn the tension on the muscle and to get that nine muscle established. Yeah, I can, you know, I have a little bit more leeway, but yeah. Yeah. So, so you, you, you, you've got your, you've got that first set you've done now with the pullover. Is that it? Or do you guys do anymore? So that first we'll either do a back down set and just pull a couple of plates, and that'll be a higher rep range. So if that first set was eight to 12, that second set will be 12 to 15 with a lower weight. Some days, this is where it's like, I guess, not saying we go by a field, but some days we'll just do a double drop, a double drop okay. And then because we don't turn with a lot of volume. So almost everything we does has an intense of fire added. So it'll be there be a double drop set or we'll rest pause that top weight set, which will do a traditional DC rest pause where it's our goal is to get 15 to 20 reps total for the whole three rounds. Okay. And then take 30 to 35 seconds in between rounds. Okay. But I would say for the most part what we're doing is that the way I describe first the top set back off set for that, the open exercises of pullovers. I feel like those back offsets can be even more brutal sometimes because you've got it in you to eat out another one, eat out another one, you know. Yeah, well, I find myself too. It's like it because you've done something heavier to start that weight feel super late. So I think at that point, you can even get more statistic with your negatives. Yeah, it's hurt even more because you that weights not heavy enough. It's like I'll get to like eight reps in sometimes. I'm like, I'm going to overshoot this rep range by 20 if I don't slow this down even more. Yeah. Yeah. And then I can almost make myself tap out when it gets to that point at the end of the rep range. I think that that's something that takes time to learn to, you know, it that's something that we say at all the time too in the shows about learning to make a weight harder. And that's that's exactly it right there. We when I trained with Shelby, we were following some programming that Jordan Peters had written. And that was the first time where my first set was the heaviest set. It was a learning experience because we would hit that first set and shoot for 10. And if you could get 10, then you'd use the same weight. If you couldn't get 10, then you'd back off by 10% on that second. And exact same thing, you know, using a pull down as an example because that's where we would start a lot of times. You take 10% off of your heaviest weight. And yeah, first that first two, three reps, you're like, oh yeah, this is easier. And you can really control up a man that gets freaking brutal quick. Yeah, it catches up. One thing I want to talk about with Scott Stephenson. I'm going to ask him on the next muscle minds is about conditioning the central nervous system. Because I feel like the sets we're talking about I couldn't have done that at a certain point. Like, you know, we're always redefining intensity is and what a real hard set is. But I feel like, and I'm sure it's the same for you that my ability to do something that's absolutely just unbelievably painful has increased. You know, it's like I'm able to handle a lot more pain. The tolerance is higher now than it was a year ago. Yeah, I agree with that. I think the same thing I think a lot because it is mental. I keep talking about mental, but it's like, you have to be so mentally and tune with the exercise you're doing. I think the common reaction that when you feel pain somewhere, not like I'm not talking negative pain, but like the pain from training is to stop or to run away from it. But I think of that scene in Fight Club where he has the chemical burn on his hand. And he tells him, like, this is, this is your pain. Don't run away from it. Like, I think of that. And I try to put myself in whatever muscle I'm working. I try to put myself inside of that muscle and like feel what I'm feeling. It's kind of, it's weird or explain, but I just, I don't, I can't run away from whatever I'm feeling. Like you have to almost like get, it's, I mean, uncomfortably comfortable basically. Because the work in said, don't want to last a minute. Yeah. All you have to do is with stand a minute of, of, of, uncomfortably to grow. Yeah. It's a fair trade off in my mind, but I agree with you. I think over time, especially the more and two and you get with your body, you find you set new standards for yourself of what pain really is. Yeah. Yeah. And I mean, you've pushed that far. I mean, I've seen, since you've moved out there, the weight you're moving, his really increased. Like, you, I saw you doing a, a hacksquat, the other day, just like loaded up. I mean, you've, you've progressed a lot in your strength. Would you ever imagined that you, you know, because I feel like I, I've seen myself get stronger. There was a time that I wouldn't have thought of myself as somebody that would be as strong as I am today. Would you have thought that you would be doing what you're doing now? No. How about, how about three years ago? How about three years ago when we were at the Western? No. I mean, that's what's funny is like, then I remember hacksquatting in that prep that I was doing three plates aside to get ready for that show. And like, that was, if I could hold on to strength, holding on to strength, and that doing three plates aside for me, at that time, I could really, I just, but I don't think I, you know, I had never just taken the time to, to figure out the things we're talking about, you know, negatives and mind muscle and just really getting down to the nitty-gritty of it. I had some injuries that I was working around that I still work around, just based off my body. There's, I, because I've seen it, I saw guys on Instagram, that Dan and I see them now on them like I just maybe I'll never get to that level of strength, but yet the other day I had eight plates aside on the hacksquatting for me, that's, that's crazy. That's, that's, that's strong for me. So, um, I never would have thought I'd have that on my back. Yeah. But, these small jumps, and then it didn't happen overnight. It's been just consistency, consistency, consistency. I guess I kind of wanted to bring that up too, because you know, the people watching maybe in the position that you or I was in three years ago, you know, enlist into like, oh, this guy trains with dusty, you know, he's strong. He's lifted, you know, eight plates on the hack. It's like, but that's not who I am. I guess the thing is is that, but you could be, I think that a lot of us could be a lot stronger than we give ourselves credit for, is what it comes down to. I think everybody has the ability to be strong, it just might not be, you know, dusty, manchel strong. Right. Yeah. I mean, it's, he's kind of in his own world. Yeah. But there's no reason each individual can't find what their max output is for a given anything of life. Yeah. And I think that's important to remember, he's like, use, use what you see, dusty during his inspiration, but don't buy no means, you know, use it as a measure to compare yourself too, because you would be very depressed seeing it every day. Yeah. You would be very depressed. I'm sure seeing it every day. And you're like, oh, I'm not that. Yeah. At the end of the day, I mean, we're doing this, I at least for myself, I'm equating, making progress in muscle growth to getting stronger, you know, it's like getting stronger is great. But the reason I'm doing it is because the ultimate goal for me is to gain more size. Right. I mean, it's stronger. And my, I've said before, it's stronger muscles, a bigger muscle. Yeah. So if you can add little bits of strength month, a month, a year to year, it does add up. It's just about not getting discouraged in the moment of something. You're like, you know, you're about to, you're about to, you've got to, you've got to do that workout. Like, that's one. You have a 50 more in the year to do, you know what I mean? It would that, with that body part. Just don't do anything stupid. Yeah. Yeah. Because I feel like that's, it is easy to do that. Yeah. There's so many other things we could talk about, but I'll stay on track here with the workout. So you have your top set, possibly a back-off set with your pullover. Where do you guys go to next? thickness movement. So it would be for us just because we didn't have a lot of toys up until recently our gym got like five new pieces. It's been barbell work. Which actually showed me a lot about how little you really need to develop a body part, especially for back. Because I've been fortunate in my whole career really to have gyms that had pretty good hammer strength pieces, I've just backed toys in general. And then, you know, locked down out here, happened to gym that we were at the hat all those toys was closed. We only had access to the gym we train at now and we were fortunate even I've access to a place. But all we had was a barbell cables and one hammer strength machine that really, it's one of the high rows and it's not in my favorite piece. Yeah. So for the better part of four months, every back work got involved either a penlay row or just a dead stop row or a traditional gun over, you know, a gun over barbell row. One of the three every week. Okay. Did you see the episode we did with our chancloreta and he was saying like he was locked down with not very much just real big, you know, basic exercises and look what he did with it. Yeah, I think if that's the thing is like, I love these some of these hammer strength pieces and like arsenal, Atlantis, all the brands. I love some of those back pieces. I think you can really learn my muscle connection well on those pieces. But I think if you 100% rely on those and get away from barbells and dumbbells, you're doing yourself into service because back is all gravity. Yeah. And I think there's there's something to be said about a back that's held, you know, 315, 415 in your hands and rode it or deadlift it at one of the two. You know what I mean? I think that there's a look that you have that you don't have if you don't do those things. Yeah. Yeah. No question. So you guys are at this movement now, probably like a barbell row type movement. How does that warm up look? That warm up would be the second one I described. There would be as the weight pyramids, the reps decrease. So, you know, 135 or 8 reps, 225 for 6. I'll probably touch 275 for 4, 315 for 3 and then 365 would be my work in set. Okay. And then I working sets anywhere from 6 to 10. Okay. And then that one will do a back down set of, you know, 10 to 15. How does that be? How does that be? No, I'm glad. No, where are you going to ask? No, no, no, I'll get back to it. I won't forget. Okay. So yeah, the back down sets 10 to 15 and for me, if the top sets 365 and the back down set would probably be 315. Okay. So decent amount backed off, but that's still brutal, man. Yeah. I always tell people the back of set. There's no rules. I mean, you just have to, I tell them to pick a weight that fits that rep. You're still training the failure, but you're training to failure in the rep range. That's what changes is the rep range. You're still training the failure. Yeah. It just, you have to fail at that. You don't, I don't want to fail at 8. If my minimum is 10, you know what I mean? How long would it take you guys to get to that first working set? Now, you're obviously kind of warmed up because you're over on the pullover, so you're not 100% new now coming into this exercise. Probably, like I said, only 4 or 5 warm-ups. Okay. And time-wise is that what 15 minutes are? Yeah, it's a 15. I mean, we're not real sticklers on the clock. Yeah. It's not uncommon for dustier walk and go to the bathroom and then go put chalk on and then I would, I've never timed this rest interval in my life. You know what I mean? I, yeah. We go when we're ready and he's big on that. He won't rush me if he's ready to go. He still won't rush me. Nice, vice versa. Because we have so little volume, you know what I mean? We only do three or four exercises a day. So, yeah. What are we going to do? Backs of eight working sets? Yeah. I guess that's an important thing is to, that's what I wanted to kind of get a picture of how long that took. I guess to hear that that you don't ever rush it is what you're telling me. Yeah. Yeah, the warm-ups I would say, you know, it takes us about 20 minutes. Okay. 20 to 25. Yeah. To get to just because we're bouncing back and forth. But yeah, 20 to 25, to get to that set and then two sets there and then onto the next. What's he growing right now? Any rare from 4.55 to 4.95? Do you see that video that Palinbo did of him? Yeah. He was on the muscle in the morning. That was cool to see. Yeah. I like when Dave does that. Yeah. Yeah, that was, that was cool. What do you say he had like a, a doctorate or something like that? Master's degree in master's and moving weight? Yes. Yeah. What she does, ladies, did doing that for a long time now? Yeah. I mean, I, I mean, like I said, we, for back day, we literally did no more than five movements for five months straight before we got these toys. Hmm. So I, I made do a barbell row. I'm still trying to get good at them. I feel like that's one of the exercises that it feels kind of iffy with my low back still. So if I do a barbell row, I can't handle as much volume. Erskies, I can't handle as much weight. So I ended up having to do more volume. So for me, it's not a, it's not a perfect example of an exercise I use. I'm really into the dumbbell rows and I have enough weight in my basement that even training at home, I can really challenge myself. Um, the thing I've been experimenting with is how far bent over I am. You know, I've heard a lot of times and I've experimented with if you're standing like a little bit more upright, some people are saying you can hit more low that. If you're bent over completely, you know, you can't, you can't cheat at it all. You're not hitting any trap that way. I'm kind of leaning toward more of a completely bent over position at this point. Where are you guys at as far as how lean, how far lean forward you are with your barbell row? Are you talking about a traditional barbell row or one off the ground? I guess, in general, do you guys gravitate to one angle more than another? Um, I would say for a traditional one, I'm not like 90 degrees from the hip. You know what I mean? I'm probably more like, I'm a little more upright, but I do try to keep my torso over the bar at least. Okay. Even if there is a little English with the pole from the bottom, yeah, I'm okay with that. You know, like I said, it can't be a 100% strict, but if I'm like jerk, if the first point of my movement is me jerking and then rolling, it's much weight. Yeah. And I see that a lot that in, I think that's, I still struggle with a traditional barbell row. I'm actually stronger from the ground than I am with the barbell row. Really, just because of my, it's just easier for me. I can, um, I think I can engage my muscle better and I can slow it down with the weight hanging like a traditional barbell row. I can lose tension on where I want it for some reason. It's just, I'm not, I don't know if I'm just built better from the ground with my leverages, but I've always pulled better from the ground. But, um, yeah, I think I don't think you have to be 90 degrees, but I think if you're, you know, you're 75 degrees, you're too high. Yeah. At that point, you're kind of, you're just moving weight. You're not contracting. I feel like to me, this is the hardest part of the workout that we're talking about right now. Either you on the barbell row me on the dumbbell row. This is the part that I find to be the most taxing in the part that I have to really give the most. Like obviously you're given everything you have on that pullover or on my pull down, but I feel like here's this is going to be, you know, the meat and potatoes of it. I agree. I think you're getting a lot of CNS too because on the pullover, the pull down, you're seated. It's fixed. Everything's fixed. On this, you have to, because the stabilizer muscles are working too. The glutes are firing because your stabilizer, the hips are pushed back. The hamstrings are being integrated. I mean, the core is tight. This is, it taxes the whole body really. Mm. Yeah, this is, too. One requires a lot of mental fortitude that this exercise of the workout. Yeah, yeah, it does. And I feel like this is the point where I need to be able to, to give my all. It's, it's a weird spot, no matter where I was coming into the workout. At this point, I feel like this is where you're 100% focused. You know, it's, this is, I guess this is the point of the workout. I love the most. It's, uh, it's intense. I can't even put it into words, but. No, I agree. This is why you showed up today. It's for the exercise alone. Yeah. I think I guess I feel that, um, do you feel that having done that first exercise makes you stronger for this exercise? Mm. I don't feel like it takes away from it. Okay, that's what I was going to get at is like, I feel like I'm not as strong if we were to open with this movement versus opening. I just, I need that one movement that's not going to tax me mentally, but gets my body moving fully. You know what I mean? Like, yeah, for some reason, I can't go to where I need to go mentally for a movement like this or a hacksquad or anything that requires, you know, all in mental output. Yeah, I can't open with it for some reason. I do better if it's second or third. I think you're right. I think you're right because I have opened with my dumbbell row and it took me a lot longer to get where I needed to be. I need it just, it took a lot longer to warm up. So, and I mean, I could have probably have done a pull down or a pull over first and still made the same amount of time. So, yeah, and that's interesting. That's something I never thought about before. But yeah, I totally agree with you, actually. Yeah, that's just something I know of myself. I don't know more people saw it too, but definitely I lose strength if I open with those big movements. Yeah. So, I mean, let's, I wonder if there's anything we can explain to people that might help them in this because I feel like the pull down, I'm pretty good at explaining what I'm doing. You know, like I said, it's kind of it's almost like a pull over at the bottom. I'm getting a really good contraction in the lat. It's like the, the, the, the barbell row or the dumbbell row, it gets a little bit less black and white because there's so much moving. You know, it's like your whole back is being activated. Everything you need to stabilize is being activated. Your breathing is important in all of this. You're trying to control your body and keep it in the position you want it. How do you focus on getting the contraction that you want? Yeah, it's a tough one to put in the words. Yeah, it's hard to explain. Yes, the the biggest part is to and you can try to elaborate on this if I do a bad job on it, but it's to always be pulling with the back first. I think if you're initiating, so for for me, at least with rows, the biggest thing is to bend the bar. So just that little subtle bend it the bar activates your lap. If anybody does that grab a bar, slight twist and you're, your lat engages. I like that. I've never used that before. I have to do that or else the initial, without bending the bar, I feel like I'm pulling with my biceps from the bottom rather than my back. So that's that's something I do bend the bar and then you can all, I notice this from the ground when I watch my videos back is you can almost see me like almost tuck my elbows and then pull versus staying 90 degrees. Yeah, because I think with a 90 degree arm trajectory, you're going to get rear del ramboyed upper trap. Sure. You're going to you're going to get those things with um to an degree if you have the elbows tucked, but if the goal is lats and you know mid back, I think you got to have those lats activated by getting tension on them before you even start around. Yeah, yeah, I agree with that um something that Shelby had to do that I still do today is I I pull though. I'm basically dragging the bar across my thighs as I bring it up. I try to keep my elbows in and I basically try to like pull toward the groin, you know, I try to focus on like below the navel, you know. Okay, I'm the same when I pull really low. Um and I think at least for me, it doesn't always touch my stomach. I've heard ad people ask me if I have to like touch your st- pull all the way your stomach like I don't think you have to go that high. If you're at max contraction where you're you know what it stops then you don't have to go further you know what I mean I don't know if that makes sense, but yeah yeah I think it does. Now that I'm fatter it's easier to touch my stomach I can tell you that much but yeah yeah I do I try to bring it all the way up but I'm you know like I said it's an exercise for me that I'm not moving as much weight as you are I don't feel as confident with the barbell row so that's why for me it's like I said like I'll be doing three sets and I'll probably use the same amount of weight possibly even back off on the third one it's an exercise it's more like a practice movement for me you know though I do what about now I know you guys don't do a lot of dumbbell but if you were to use a dumbbell do you bring the dumbbell all the way up? Yeah I would it's hard to I can't picture where I pull it to but for me I just know where where my max contraction is for that body part before I start twisting or jerking I guess that's what I'm trying to get at is like your range of motions only going to be as much as your mobility allows yeah so with a dumbbell I only pull as high as I can go without twisting yes pulling from the you know what I mean yeah if the goal is flat so I guess that's I just kind of gauge it out that like where's the endpoint for the muscle that I've working versus how does it look it might actually look like a partial rabbit to to to an outsider but it's the it's a full range of motion for that muscle in that exercise I feel like the same is true with the stretch that the lat is only going to stretch so far and I see a lot of people that will give it like their whole body starts twisting down and I think that that's unnecessary too. Yeah and that's gonna I mean it's unnecessary and I think if you're having shoulder issues you have to look at something like that because that's that's pulling on the cap of the shoulder. Sure letting you know letting that wait basically pull your shoulder out and then and then pulling it back so you're basically creating a lot of trauma to the shoulder by doing that. Yeah All right anything else we should cover on this exercise? No I mean it's a pretty neat potato there's obviously some little minor cues but this is the one where like I think you have to push the boundaries of strength too. Yeah I mean because like we said this one requires the most mental for us so I think anything that requires that most mental strength is gonna give you the most bang for your bucket as far as a big thick dense back. Yeah yeah this is like you said this is the reason that you're here and I think I said it's important to the reason I want to try to explain that too to people is because I feel like especially for new people they don't necessarily recognize that this is where you need to really this is where you really need to unload I feel like by the time I'm done with the exercise there's like a weight lifted off my shoulders the rest of the workout it's a little bit easier after this to me. Yeah I do that this is this is the one I think about from the I'm in the previous session to this session is usually this exercise. Yeah and are you guys keeping a log on everything are you going in saying okay I got 365 for 10 I need to get it for 11 today or something like that. Yeah I don't get is I don't live in diet by the log book as much as I used to okay I have a mental log of where my stuff is and if I post I know I post most of my big lifts like I can fall back on that too. Yeah yeah there's just different variables I mean if I think you get so in tune with your body that you know if I didn't sleep I'm not I'm not going to go in and try to set a record I'm just going to try you know maybe doing what I did last week is a PR because I'm at the point in my career we talked about this earlier and the show is I'm not going to do anything dumb that might put me on the shelf for months. Yeah just just to beat my numbers that day and that's what I tell people I'm like I I'm not your body I can't tell you how you can't I can't tell how you're feeling but you know only you know how you're truly feeling now obviously it's up to you to govern whether you're being you know whether you're being a bitch or not if I need to go in if I'm just trying to get out of something because I'm a little tired or I don't feel good like I have a pretty good ability to call myself out but there are there's days where I know like there's no way I'm doing a barbell road today I slept for an hour yeah yeah so I think you is over time you learn how to be objective with yourself when it comes to that but I don't I do use a lot I mean I'm progressive overload is how I train if I can add reps or strength or the biggest one I think people lose sight of is the ability to critique their form a form was a good don't go up wait I don't I'd rap just try to have better form yeah yeah that's that's a big one for me and I started shooting video initially I was like hey I'm gonna post this set and then after I started doing that I started getting a better idea I could look at I could look at the video and see like oh you know I didn't necessarily hold that first long as I wanted to or my negative didn't look as good as I as I felt like it did and we've talked about this on some of the other programs but I feel like having that video has been a critical tool I shoot almost especially being at the home gym here I can just set up a tripod I just I shoot all the main heavy lifts that I do now and then I can review them back sometimes even if it's like if it's my first if I'm doing like two sets I'll even just hit play after that set and watch it before I do the next one see if there's anything that I can improve and we're talking today about the things that you can do to get more out of the exercises you're doing for me that's been a number one thing for me this year I think has been being able to look at it in critique right on the spot like that yeah that's a huge point I'm glad you said that because I will be dusting I will both do the same things because I think especially with a row in like in your head it feels like it's barely moving and your form with shit and then you watch a video back you're like oh that actually wasn't too bad anything I probably could have done one more but I thought mentally you think your form was so bad that you had to rack it yeah and then that video becomes a teaching tool so I'm glad you said that I have all my clients anybody that works with me or if I obviously do in person training but if you don't train with me in person I push them to send me videos my WhatsApp is filled with training videos this is my dragouts and I give them you know I'll send voice and I'm a back at critique I'm formed on cadence at the negatives we're off on intensity if I think they had more reps I'll tell them you had more reps because anybody we can any one of us can write someone training program and give it to them but how they execute the program would give them to them and that's what gets the result not the program itself yeah yeah I think that's a big thing people need to take home is that the split the exercise routine matters to a degree but the biggest thing that matters is how you're executing yeah the movements that you're you're being given are that are on paper I totally agree in fact like at this point with a new client I don't even you know like if their split looks decent and that's what their comfortable doing I don't even want to change it instead I'll just do what you're talking about you know like let's look at your exercises and see what we can do to improve within that and that way too they don't have to kind of reinvent the whole thing and you know it's like if you're already getting out of new diet and now I'm asking you to train differently it's at least you have like some things that are going to be consistent in your life you know that if you like being one of those guys where Mondays Chess Day then you can still have that but yeah I think that's one thing where I think all of us most all of us can get more out of our training as by improving or form like that's been if I had to if I had to boil it all down I would say that that is one of the top three most critical changes that I've made this year yeah being hard on yourself when it comes before I think every one of us has more that we can be doing or play areas we can improve exercise that we can get better at that can you know every you make our physique's better and make our performance better yeah I think everyone wants to talk about you know drugs or diet or this or that and it's like get down to the access and those of your training take video all your sets and I think it's hard I get it like I remember when I started filming my training in a gym and I had a fucking tripod and I thought people were looking at me and I get it it's it's hard that you think through that guy but now it's so common to do that you're not that guy there's other people that are doing it too yeah and if you you know you're not a douche for wanting to like you know all other sports watch games film back they're rich film of to prepare that's kind of what we're doing we're watching our previous sets to prepare for our next sets and our next sessions yeah so I think getting over the hurdle of filming yourself and seeing yourself is a huge step and uh all most I can honestly say that all the clients I have that get over the hump and film other stuff they all make progress a lot faster than they would without it because I'm able to like get inside their training I'm able to say like yeah we don't really need to do anything with your diet we just need to work 10 times harder within your session and we're going to get results yeah and even if they're not working with you or working with someone working with me they're just seeing it for yourself like you said you know you can see you can you can look at it instantly and you can see where you can improve but it's a matter because I hate I see that all the time people will be like hey here's my set but if you look after the third rep I start doing this that's like oh you figured that out because you watched the video yourself you know yeah your portion and the be cognizant of the of the move of the exercise so yeah that's a huge tool that's probably the of everything we're going to talk about that's probably the biggest thing yeah training especially back because that's not something you can see in the mirror yeah yeah when you train um so that's huge yeah so back to our workout then I'm probably going to be I'm going to guess on a dumbbell row you guys are going to do a barbell row where do you head from this one well with our new toys we probably jump to a hammer strength before we might have just finished with a pull over another pull over variation or pull down and cut the ball to the day okay I mean we go low ball these were back so um that this exercise takes a lot out of us I mean there's days where I'm like I could leave the gym now I am spent yeah yeah um everything else is kind of just like frosting on the cake so there's a pull down machine it's that the hammer strength I sew front pull down you familiar with that one I have to find it I'll get it I'll find it I'll drop pull down it's a supernated grip oh yeah yeah pulling in the you yes I really love that one for lower lads and because you're in a fixed position okay I can arch my arch my back get that supernated grip and drive my elbow down and back and I tell myself and I tell clients to think of putting your elbow in your back pocket yeah yeah well contracting that lat and you can feel that lat kind of spiral around right to where the touch is along your spine yeah and just the full contraction and um so we'll hammer that one out for usually top set back up set same method and then um yeah so that that's a movement we've been going to a lot lately is that uh ruped up I imagine at this point of the workout too you don't need in the fact of where you're at exercise like you probably don't need that much of a work of a warm up for these now it's one or two probably just one depending on what the load is okay okay um I would say yeah just one and because yeah you're already warmed up everything I mean you're taxed so that's a good thing to point out is that warm upsets for that first exercise are probably going to be four or five six as you're progressing into your workout the warm upsets you'll need be crease and that's a good thing to tell people is that if you if you don't need it don't do it yeah you know what I mean I think they think they have to do x amount of sets for every exercise it's all that's is where it's like experience comes in and you go by feel right yeah that's a big factor and that would get easier in a way too if you're using a machine you know you're already pretty fatigued you know you guys have basically killed yourself on your barbell row you don't have to stabilize this as much and this is where I like a machine you know we talk a lot of times about you know the pros and cons of machines I feel like this is the pro where you're already fatigued in the workout and now you can continue to train hard you can continue to pull a lot of weight and you don't have to worry about stabilizing it as much like trying to do another barbell row you're not going to be able to hit what you already did you know no and your your body is not going to work with you at that point either yeah exactly you're you're taxed and like I said that barbell row or that dumbbell row that heavy weight is a it's a full body stimulus yeah yeah yeah yeah I like this I like where you guys are at and I'm pretty much in the the same place you know I would I would probably since I started with my pull down and then I went to my heavy row I may do a secondary row like lately I've been doing I don't know what you call it but it like a chess supported dumbbell row where I'm and I'm pulling more to the upper back now so the elbows are out a little bit more I can kind of get in all focus on the contraction it's not nearly as heavy and I can get a good squeeze on each one of those reps you know and that's because I don't have a machine if I had a machine I'd go to a machine for that or I'd go to a pullover like a cable pullover something like that dumbbell pullover I like that dumbbell that variation you're talking about with the bench I think that because I have trouble with the upper back just I have to really thick lumbars so that that completely takes the lower back out of it for me and I can just focus on stretching that upper back and then you know the contraction getting that nice squeeze and you really you can only use as much weight as you can roll because you can't cheat on that one you're in a fixed you know what I mean on that bench so there's no way to really cheat the way to right so I like that variation I remember you were you and I were talking a while ago I think I had shown you one of my backpragrist pictures and you had said you were like hey I think you could use more upper back development you said that that was an area that you were trying to develop that's what you pulled me at the time it may have been a year or so ago where where you at with that now I think it's the value I mean it's definitely moving in the right direction honestly I it's hard I need to see myself lean I need to die it out to really see yeah because at this point it's like I have a big back big for me but I need to see everything peeled down to see what's lacking what's not yeah that's just my own perception of myself I've seen a 12 hundred obbsies and pictures I haven't died over the three years so it's just at the point where I need to see I need to see myself and I need to see myself and I'll line up to see where I stand I think that's a key for me is because you know I look at pictures from 2017 it's like I don't even know that person anymore that was you know I mean I was a light heavyweight now I'm anywhere from 245 to 250 and I there's no way I'll make light heavy so no it's hard to have it's hard to like be objective when I just haven't seen myself die it down yeah I still think it's weaker than other parts of my back just based off of my my strong parts of how I pull and we do a ton of our DLs and stuff too so I do have a good deal of good degree of back thickness I can always use more but that upper area is something I've tried and I think you and I've talked about shrugs before the standing in front of the bar versus standing with the bar behind you yeah shrugging so that actually helps me activate my mid traps too I'll do that from time to time that's right I remember you say in that I'm not I'm a I like dumbbells better than that okay I just I like the dumbbells that they're in you know they're kind of in alignment with my body versus in front of me it's it's a little bit more awkward they're okay but I like that also you know what else they you remember at Royal Oak Gym they had that like I don't even know what you'd call it but it was like a like a almost like a a strong man unit it was like a shrug you could use it for shrugs it was basically like a three-sided box with handles on it and yeah yeah it was like I don't know what it's called either but I know you're talking about almost like a farmer's carry type thing but I like we used to that out there those things are nice and then that way too my arms would be at my side versus being in front of me I never I never really experimented with the behind the back too much for me I was impressed on a Smith machine just because the most the path is fixed and you're not doing about balancing the barbell but yeah I'm able to really get good scapular retraction at the bars behind me versus in front of me okay but we don't I don't do it ton of shrugs if I do them like that's it might be something I do for potential we're at the beginning just to get that area moving the other so we're going from a row to a third movement which is kind of like can be a variable they stop what we're trying to target and then from there that might be a day for me yeah the way we do things or there might maybe a fourth exercise just for some blood volume like we're feeling at that day yeah that's where I would finish is sometimes it'll just be those first two exercises and then that's it I do train biceps on my back day so I do you know a whole day so I will do in arm exercise but I don't do a lot for arms I'm I'm actually considering adding more volume in for arms but that's that's another conversation I mean we're focused and mainly on back here but yeah regardless it's a it's a secondary thought you know what I mean it's not like it's not like okay now we start arms and the whole process begins again it's like if you know several sets and that's it right now arm training is not my favorite but um we actually we are we recently just added an arm day again just to give it its own focus because after back I mean it's hard to get into biceps but that's kind of what I was thinking about too was maybe just an arm specific day and it's almost kind of to me that's almost like an active rest day you know it's like you know you're not going to be taxing your central nervous system too much with that right it's just kind of a ego day pump everything up feel good about it and then you're not tax for your next day yeah yeah so I guess I hope this um I hope this paints a picture for people that may help them in some way or another I imagine that some of our listeners to to them this is exactly what they do to some of them it might be different but I feel like having walked through this case study with you I'm hoping that some people it learned something if you could pick if people could pick up one thing out of this that would be pretty cool you know yeah absolutely I mean I think the hardest thing to do is reach people with what we're talking about I mean because it's hard to write a post about this and go into depth because you can't convey emotion you can't we can't do our little images we're doing with the screen right but uh it's like a virtual seminar kind and um this is just our own experiences I think other people probably have their own insights they can add to or maybe they can collaborate with what we're providing so as long as we can help people in some way possible I think I think we did our job yeah and I feel like I've learned some stuff here too because listening to you gets me thinking about things in a slightly different way and explaining things to you kind of gets me to solidify some of my own thoughts you know yeah I agree and I think I was just thinking one thing people can take from this if you're not filming your sets absolutely that's one thing you can start doing with your training that I guarantee we'll make you a better bodybuilder yeah yeah absolutely you're not the post any of them if you don't want to but just for your records yeah so if people wanted to reach out to you what's what's the best way to get hold of you uh Instagram so key styles too all right all of that down the notes cool and uh what do you uh what do you guys train in next you had today was off you said right today was off yesterday was clogged okay tomorrow will be probably adults okay you guys do adults on their own yeah yeah we've been our split's been hasn't been cemented in for a while but uh everything we'll try to do push days together and then gusty and I both have like shoulder issues so separating chest and belt actually mitigates that okay so chest you know lately it's been three exercises done um delts maybe four and then we're not pressing on belt there's any more oh no kidding part every now and then we'll throw it in but for the most part it's just a lot of side ladders and rear ladders and front raises okay a lot more blood volume it's a lot different than the training I just described for back yeah it's gonna be some more sad it's not as it's still heavy weight but the rep ranges are higher just to kind of a different approach just based off of you know I think the back and leg or something you can really really push loads on yeah and then your process but I think raises arm movements for the most part you don't need to focus as much on the load versus like the contraction and the stretch and all that I agree I've purchased your focus I agree and I feel like you're already doing all those heavy loads in the primary chest and back movements so you know if I were to go back and change anything I would probably have done less shoulder processing because that was probably my strong it not probably it was my strong sex exercise for a while and I got to the point where I could kick up the 130s for sets and it was an ego thing you know I mean it's like I didn't there was no reason that I needed to do that I still shoulder press but I'm I'm definitely I'm more of the approach of trying to make it harder through taking shorter rest breaks on my shoulder day or on my shoulder work and going for higher reps than I used to yeah I agree with that I I'm kind of at a I don't want to call it a permanent plateau shoulder pressing but I'm just I need to get more work done on my shoulder to feel confident enough to progress in the way again because I mean another form of progressive overload is being able to come to the gym session after session after session and give the same amount of effort yeah you know if we put ourselves we go all out and do a heroic rep on shoulder day and then oh now I can't my pole days affected yeah my leg days affected because I can't I'm waiting on my back like and it's in your head you're living with something and you're thinking about that and you're training so that's a form of progressive overload itself is just stringing together workouts you know if there's an issue you get it fixed don't don't try to fit a square peg in a round hole if it's not there on a given day yeah or it exercises doesn't work with you don't force it yeah absolutely have something people can take home it's like I did that when I was younger I with I'm a hacksquad especially I remember just saying they're thinking I'm just gonna go down and I'm gonna bungee cord it all the way back so I can be the logbook and you know it caused me I was I didn't train legs for a couple months at one point just because of that no kidding I didn't realize you had take time off legs yeah no I've been in and out of I've seen probably five or six PT's over the last three years okay um but the one I have here does to be referred me when I moved here and instantly I started seeing him weekly and then now I just see him for maintenance once a month there twice a month right on a lot of dry meddling work what a patch of work just stuff to keep me moving yeah well if if our viewers and listeners enjoy this and they had anything else any topics that you wanted to tell me and I had to get together and tackle I'm sure tell me it'd be up for it I love talking about this stuff so I feel like it would be fun to dive into some other topics if if anybody was interested man it sounded like a good idea yeah absolutely I think we can do we can probably hit everybody for all right all right guys well listen thanks for hanging with us and like I said I hope you pick something up out of it for another episode here at Think Big Body Building Media and Advice's Radio I'm here with Tommy Styles I'm Scott McNeil you guys we'll see you soon thanks a lot Tommy appreciate your time man thanks for all of me all

If you haven't been to failure at 20 reps, six and eight reps sets of heavy squats, yet it's hard. But I'm telling you, I'll take that all day to failure versus 18 to 20 reps. That is fucking death. That is horrible. And you feel like you're going to pass out. What's up guys? Welcome back to Think Big Bodybuilding Media. I'm Scott McNally. I'm here with coaches Skip Hill in the middle. We've got Andrew Barry back with us. Today we got a bunch of listener questions. We're going to do like a Sunday Easter Sunday training extravaganza. We have a topic of favorite squat technique and why we're going to dig deep. We're going to talk a lot about squats plus we have a bunch of listener questions. A lot of this stuff is going to be training focused. I do want to say thank you to our great sponsor, true nutrition.com. Check out their awesome supplements. I use a lot of their stuff. If you have any questions about them, ask me. Our code is advices, AD, VI, CES. We might be getting a new code. I don't know. We'll have to talk to Dante about that. And it's all I got to say until we actually get around at the topic. Oh, in one more note, we've got timestamps. If you guys want to skip around feel free, these guys have both been in the bodybuilding world for a long time as have I. So I'm excited to get into this topic before I do. Happy Easter gentlemen. Andrew, welcome back to the show. I'm good to have you. Well, thanks for having me back on guys. It's a great to chat with you always. Skip. I know you have you've got fancy dinner plants tonight. So we got to knock this thing out. So you can put on your your suit or whatever you put on for the fancy restaurants. It's Ruth's Chris. I asked my wife if I could even go in shorts. Yeah, you probably. These days dress code isn't what it used to be. Especially in South Florida. But anyway, I am looking forward to dinner because we don't usually go to dinner. So or go to a nice sit down. Usually a burger joint or something like that or a bar because they have to have alcoholic beverages from my wife. Things like that. Oh yeah. All right. Well, let's get this thing rolling. You know, squat technique. You always hear that in order to have great physique, you have to have great legs and you you've always heard it said that in order to have great legs, you have to squat. Do you have to squat or not? That's a conversation we've had on another episode. But actually getting into the movement, you know, I'll figure out what your favorite squat technique is now. We're going to talk about what you grew up on. We're going to talk about possibly the benefits of different squat techniques and we're going to come full circle with this thing. So I guess skip. You're a leader. You've been doing this for a longest. I suppose you've been I know coaching now for over two decades. You've worked with guys not only in body building in the NPC and IFBB, but also sports that would require leg strength for other purposes like the NFL. So take it away, man. What are you personally into now for a squat technique? Personally, me, pendulum comes first and that is that I'd say a close second would be a good hack squat. But that's me. And my preference right now is to dig into more, you know, digging more to my quads and lesson to my glutes and hips and that sort of thing. And that's not to, you know, I'm not a huge fan of and this is going to be a really good topic by the way. I'm not a huge fan of the cliche idea of, you know, squats are king. You must squat to have big legs. Things like that. That is not to say that squatting is not great. It's not to say that squatting does not build big legs. But I think that it's sometimes an individual thing where some people respond very very well to back squats, barbell squats, whatever the hell you want to call. And I only say that. So that I say that to differentiate between regular squatting and smits squatting. I have not been able to free squat, unfortunately, for quite a while. It just, since my back problems, a chronic little back problems, I just, it's just always there. It's always an issue. So for me to squat in a Smith machine, I have to be fair and say they are Smith squats. They are not technically squatting. I'm squatting in the sense that I'm bending at my hips and my knees, but I consider squatting, you know, barbell or free squat. So I want more, more my focus, my own training to be more of my quads. I call it quad dominant type training. And when I can, I, you know, I stay away from that. If I need something with my glutes or if I want to dig in a little bit bounce out my quads with my hamstring work and glute work, then I'll do leg presses, things like that. I might even do lunges and start doing lunges too. I picked up on those after the hip injury, but we're not, we're the topic, it's not lunges. So I'm bringing myself back to the topic, but that's where I am. I do, I will say one more thing. I do think that if you overuse the free, the free squat, I do think that it leads eventually down the road, especially for those people who are genetically predisposed to getting huge. I don't want to say they find it easier, but it works hard to get huge. But for those who are genetically predisposed to getting huge, I think that if you squat long enough and heavy enough, that it's really hard to not have wider glutes and wider hips right along with bigger legs. And then you end up with quads that are, I call them, ad-Octur heavy. They just, you know, you take Sean race quads and you put them up against, gosh, that's a lot of getting somebody. Yeah, a lot of it, it's just so many that it's hard to tell. But you know, and I think that's part of the reason I think that there's been a shift, you know, over the years to, I don't want to say it's quads are even more important because they're more important than two, but there's just a different look. There's a different look and they, I think a lot of body goes to come out of your head. And you know, Andrew, I've been, I've been waiting for this. You know, two, I got to tell you, you know, by the way, you know, we always get questions too like, um, you know, how do I bring out my outer sweep? How do I make my legs look like that guy? So, you know, and some of that stuff is genetic. Obviously, you can work to grow bigger legs no matter who you are. But I have to say, I think one of the first things I noticed, Andrew, when I met you and I saw your pictures, is your legs. You have a really cool, it's not only do you have like awesome conditioning to them, which I think makes me, I love like really good condition, but you've got really cool shape to your legs, too. Yeah, it's very good shape. Yeah, they're one of my favorite features on you. So I'm really looking forward to hearing what you have to say. Well, first, I really appreciate that that's really nice. I wouldn't say I've done anything much different than both you guys in terms of over the years, but I think you have the nail in the head when it comes to like well developed legs, I was like, you got to get them peeled. You got to show that detail. You got to actually have the cuts to show this with, if you know what I mean, to differentiate the different heads of the tissues, so they actually do stand out. But, you know, getting back to what's kept us saying about, you know, squatting or not squatting, I think even looking at it, not just from a leg training sense, but from a hard work sense, there's a difference when you do a squat workout, then there is from doing, say, leg extensions, leg curls, a doctor ad dr machine, like, and I think there's a very different look to the leg. If you've done some level squatting over the course of your career, not to say you have to squat 20 years into it because we all know we're at that age where your back hurts, you can't get your arms up to the bar properly anymore. So I just think that, you know, in terms of like learning how to train intensely, you got to go through some hard squat sessions, there's some hard leg sessions including squats, you know, you got to get some hard sets of eight, and then you got to do those widow makers sets of 20 that they weren't your whole body, you know what I mean? Like, you gain that mental topness where the whole rest of the week is easy after that leg workout. Like how many times have you guys, let's say your leg days on a Sunday, you go to bed Saturday night, you're sitting there and you're like, okay, like you start getting focused a couple hours for you. You know, there's that anxious feeling and also that like, I call it like anxiety, mixed with like excitement because you're like, I know what it did last week and I've got to prove to myself that I could beat last week's numbers or intensity in some way or shape or form. And so you're just thinking about it. You fall asleep thinking about it, you wake up, you eat your first meal, you're preparing, you eat your pre-workout meal or whatever your schedule the whole day you're thinking about it. So I do think in terms of intensity mindset, if you're a squatter, you know what that's all about. Yeah, you bring up a good point too about the rep ranges. One thing I can look back on and I'm going to guess it was right around 0506 was I ended up changing things over to doing sets for legs to failure in the 18 to 20 rep range. And I'm telling you, if you know, everybody says, oh, yeah, 20 reps are hard. And I'm not saying nobody trains the failure and I'm the balls out of guy. What I'm saying is if you haven't been to failure at 20 reps, six and eight reps sets of heavy squats, yeah, it's hard. But I'm telling you, I'll take that shit all day to failure versus 18 to 20 reps. That is fucking death. That is horrible. You feel like you're going to pass out. It's all you can do to keep your base solid at your base. You know, I call the hips, your base or your foundation. It's a bit you're shaking. You want to psychologically shorten the reps. You want to be a little quicker and to force yourself and stay disciplined to keep that same rep tempo and that higher rep range. If anybody is struggling with their legs growing and they're doing heavy sets and they're going to failure and they can't figure it out. Just shock the shit out and then go to failure at 18 to 20 reps. As I'm telling you, your legs will fucking just go crazy. They'll be sourish shit. You'll probably have to cut your body in the half because it's so brutal. But I just want to throw that out of the far forgot about it because that rep range, that's killer. That is for brutal. So Andrew, to add to that to also, well, I was going to say to add to that, also, it would consider the fear factor. Like what other exercises do you have something that could really potentially hurt you? So you're getting them up to do that heavy set, whether it's 68 or whether it's at 20 reps, I don't care what weight it is. Because if you're a 400 to 500 pounds quad or you're going to be able to do 315 to 365 or more for 20 reps and that could really hurt you if you mess it up. So there's a year factor going on at the same time. You know, I just want to bring that up. Did Andrew tell us his favorite technique currently? Because I don't think I heard it. I did. Okay, I thought like I was going to feel like a bad, we're bad hosts. No, I'm so currently right now, I'm actually really really enjoying the belt squat. And I would say like right now I like the Hacksquad, I like the belt squat. And then I think I sent you a video of the, I call them the Dante squats, which is kind of a hatfield squat where you're pushing the bar up against the rack. I learned that in post-production. Yeah, I learned that from watching Dante teacher to dusty and Shaw. And I'd always done, you know, over the last couple of years, I'd been leaning more towards half-field squats or some type of the safety bar squat versus just a street, you know, bar belt back squat. Because I don't know about you guys, but like for me, the difference with the hardest part is getting my arms back to hold the bar properly. And it's different than when I was say 20, 25. Because my arms are just a little different, which makes me shift my hips a little different, which puts my back in a much more compromised position. And you know, you know, back injury, once you have one of them, it's just, it's a history of them going on, you know, in your future. So so I haven't put a bar on my back, even in a Smith machine since I want to say 2017, maybe 2018. It's been either, yeah, it's been that long, it's either been a Hacksquad, a belt squat, a safety bar squat, done hotfield style, or I bought the the spider bar from a lead FTS. I don't think I was gonna use that one yet. I haven't used a great bar. Yeah, you, you had shown it to me, man. And I was on the fence. I got the transformer bar, which I think that's a better move because you could do a bunch more things with it. Yeah, it showed up right before I'd gotten sick. So I'm just now messing with it. I tried, and I posted it to terrible technique on the a hatfield squat, basically. I just was trying to feel it out. And then of course, I went over, I found a video, a guy named Merff on elite FTS, he had a coaching log. And he had posted a video of how to do it properly. So I'm gonna go back now and try that again. It's a technique I've never used before. It's weird guys because when I first thought of this idea, I didn't even think of Hacksquads. Like I was just thinking of, I didn't even think of machines really. I just thought of like the basic movements you've got your front squat, you've got your traditional back squat, what is there? There's like Cissy squats. You know, and then I thought, well, I'll add in some stuff. Here's what our group had said. I got a screenker. I wonder what they had said, went the pole, better. Yeah. So the final thing was, NAGES actually added in Hacksquads. And here's what we came up with. We had, and I just posted this a little bit ago. 37 people said, Hacksquad, good old back squats, 30 people, belt squat 10, front squats 5, Smith machine 3, V-squad, or similar 3. I added other two people voted for that. Then we had one for Sissy squat, plus leg extension, superset, and then somebody else added in leg press. So that's where we, I'm surprised. You know what my being seen is to do? What is your most frequent go to squat, and then break it down by H too? I think that would be something to look at. Yeah, that's a good way to go. That would say quite a bit. Yeah. I think the back, it would go back squat, and then Smith squat, and then as we go up an age of elevate more towards Hacksquad and Bell squat, you know, and I would Bell squat right now. If I had one at the gym that I trained training, I call him pitch sharks, but that's just because that, I don't know that name, apparently the first one I use was pitch shark and that stuck in my head. But I don't have access to one right now. I think when I switch over, I'm going to start training, and I don't want to side-track the conversation, but scout to get a laugh out of this. I'm going to start training a red kind in about three, probably about three weeks. When my knee is good to go again, I could start training legs. I have to get back into the energy of people being around me. It's just becoming old, being the only person in the gym with my wife, turning the lights on, and then turning the lights off when I leave. So they have one, and I'm excited to get to that leg equipment, but I very much like the bell squat or the pitch shark. I think it's great, especially for someone who does have chronic you know, back issues. It of course takes, I don't want to say it takes a posterior chain out of the movement because it doesn't do that, but the load on the posterior chain is significantly less than a regular squat, which is, again, beneficial for someone who has any type of history of lower back work, and I'm going to clear my throat after I mute the thing here. Go ahead. Oh, okay. I almost think that the belt squat in a way causes a little bit of traction, and it sends it up, pulls your spine apart from where it's pulling from in the hips, versus the bar being lowered on your back, compressing down on your spine. So I think there's two ways to do it. I would wonder how you do it because there, I think there's two ways to do it. You can literally squat straight, and people have to be careful when they use the belt squat because it depends on how you set up over the connection or over the chain, and what lever position you use, you should really be squatting straight up and down. I think. If the same time if you set up right in your squatting at kind of an angle, it's hard to show, but if you, you're kind of leaned over a little bit in your squatting, on-screen, but... Exactly. There you go. I see that as two different ways or two variations of doing that same movement. And I think some people may not know when they lock in because obviously, to keep... Let me see if I can explain this right. A typical pit-shark has three connections on the lever. The furthest one out is going to be the one that's going to be basically from a lever standpoint, it's going to make the load lighter. It isn't going to make it much lighter, but it's going to make it lighter. So people tend to think, oh, I don't want to be, especially if you're hardcore, I gotta get up here to the front. And there's a throw in that because you will load less plates. But it's also going to pull you into the machine. It's going to pull you forward a little bit more. Then if the connection is directly underneath you pulling you straight down, like gravity would pull you straight down in the squat. So it just depends, I think, how you set it up. And I think people need to be aware if they're not of how they hook it up. And the best way to do that is take a video of yourself from the side and check that only your posture and the range of motion or the travel of the hips. But see how the connection to the machine and what what lever position you're on, whether that is directly underneath you going straight up and down or if there's an angle to pull that as backwards backwards. That's right. But to the back. Well, there were a little while ago, there was a study and they took three different belt squats. Right after it came out, Scott Stevenson and I did a podcast where he explained and broke down the study. But the study was talking about how much quad activation you get out of these three different brands. One brand was the pit shark. Another brand was I believe the Rogue Rhino. Honestly, I can't remember the third one. But each one of them was different. So just like just like any any machine, you'd have to have, you have to feel each one out. You know, because I think like the pit sharks on a lever, that's going to do one thing versus the kind where there's just that hole in the floor with the cable coming up. Each machine I think is going to take different adjusting and you really do have to feel it out. What I think you can do the same thing with squats. Like I can do a squat that's all hip. You know, I can do a squat that's all gluten ham. But my ability to your range of being able to change it is much more limited because at the end of the day, you've got that barbell on your back. Versus when you're at the hip, you can stand in all sorts of funky positions. Kind of like with a Smith, you can put your feet way out in front of you. Do things you'd never do with a, you know, traditional barbell. So I do think a good point I think you bring up is you really, if you're going to use a belt squat, you really need to think about what you're going to be activating and make sure you get that stance locked in first as one of the sounds like you're saying. Exactly. Yep. Yeah, that makes sense. Hacks squat. I didn't even think of adding Hacks squat for some reason. I thought I had to squat being more like a, you know, I'm a machine like a lake press by the, do you guys want to put it on the list? Because it's 37 people did like more than 50%. Yeah, I mean, I could somewhat want to say better leg movements. I've done them for years. I think that I don't want to say they're king for me, but I have probably Hacks squatted. I may have Hacks squatted throughout my time of training more than I have any other squat type movement. Yeah, I'm, I think that's a pretty safe statement. The only thing that you have to be careful with, I think, these days. And I think it's these days versus the older machines. And maybe you guys have seen this as well. It depends on whether you can adjust the platform or if the platform is what I call too open. There are some Hacks squats where the angle of the back pad versus the angle of the platform is too open. It's open further than 90 degrees. And I think that's over time. I think it's kind of dangerous. Yes, it does place more, you know, more potential stress on your quads. But, and you'll notice if you have that angle because you think to yourself, gosh, I have to be so much further up on platform than I normally am on any other, you know, Hacks squat. But there can be over time a lot more stress put on, you know, your petal attendants and the knee itself than if it's a 90 degree angle. And, you know, we could throw another thing like the true squat and everything else, but I don't want to get side-track. There's a lot of options for legs. Do you know, you guys want to talk about about the angle with, I mean, I don't explain it very well. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's not angle. It's not going to be or sliding forward. Exactly. Because it's not a hard 45. Hmm, trying to show. It's like, and it's funny, because of that angle, that made exactly. That made me take my shoes, change the type of shoes that I wear when I train legs because I ended up wearing, I would, I would get my leg shoes a half size smaller so that they were tight so that my feet would never slide in the shoe because I couldn't stand how my feet would push up against the front of the shoe because it would be uncomfortable. So I just wore them a half size. Sometimes a size, a full size too small and they hurt like hell to walk around him. But they were great to train legs because my foot would not move. You know, when you're foot gets warm, the material expands. It's like a hat. If you wear a hat, you could put it on at first and it's tight to shin your leg. Oh my god, how did I get this thing on? But then you warm up and you sweat and it naturally kind of expands and it gets maybe a little moist in it or sweatier so that it would end it expands a little bit. Same with your shoes. So if you do have any type of movement like that, make sure your shoes are tight to shut you know I'll be sliding around and you're fucking shoes man. Do it hex quads. Have you guys been do at my 40? I have. No, I should. It's down here. It's on the gov side, right? Isn't he in a tank temple? Yeah, it's in Tampa. So last time I was there, it was a Watson hydraulic hex quad. Okay. So you could set it up so that you know the machine would start like this and then midset literally a buddy could be cranking on the hydraulics in the back where it goes down like that. So it's making it a little bit easier. So like yeah, so it was actually a really cool machine. You could adjust the angle exactly how you wanted it based off what you're trying to do that day. And I'll tell you what, even it's one plate, like one plate when you're straight up feels like 225. So it's kind of a killer of a machine as you start adding plates. Obviously it gets easier as you put the hydraulically lower the back angle a little bit. But it's definitely a really cool piece. I'd never seen that before. It's made by Watson. Nice. Yeah, I know they have Watson dumbbells down there too. I've heard ones with the spinning handles. They're like, they're weird man. They're like, they're like, cold cans. Like you're like, I don't know how to get it up here. Like it feels weird, you know. Yeah. And they're that thick and they spin that be a bitch to press with wouldn't it? It's weird the first time you use them. Like you have to go like 20 30 pounds lighter just to like get adjusted to them. But yeah. Yeah. You know what I'm talking about hacksquats. I'll say that for me, I think for a lot of people, that is one of the machines that is so unique that as in each brand can be and you guys have already kind of talked about that a little bit. Each brand can be so different. There's some hacksquats. I like I made one a hacksquat really bad. But if I'm in a gym that I don't like their hacksquat, I'm not even going to touch it. You know. But then you get the hacksquats that are nice. I really like mine. It's a body master hacksquat and the angle. Body master is great. Yeah. Yeah. I can actually if I get up here, I'll pop it like my door is closed, but it's literally I sit here and podcast and look at it. I love that thing. The only thing is it's really, really heavy. So you know, there's like the side backs hacksquat. I can get a lot more plates on it. You know, part of that is like it's nice and the ego I guess for videos to have more plates on it. But you also kind of have like a little bit more room to get that specific weight you want before you have to start breaking out the fives and the tattons. You know what I mean? Yeah. Oh, let's take it as a brand. What is? No, go ahead, go ahead. Well, I was going to say we should probably bring this up because I know some people watching have been like, why don't you guys talk about this? Well, how about the trend right now to not just this exercise, but every exercise reverse band everything. Thank you. Yeah. My phone. I can't even wrap my phone up anymore because it falls. Sorry. I think the ego thing is going a little far. Yeah, because you got to guys that you're like, look, I've seen you on a hack squad and you hit four plates for like a hard set eight. And then you put the bands on, you got like seven plates on there. So yeah, who do you think you're full and do? Okay. Yeah. And I'm not saying there's not a place for it. If your knees are injured or something like that or and I do like the feel of the accommodating resistance as you go in from, you know, harder and easier to harder. But then I tell people this, why don't you be in from the bottom then if you still want that accommodating resistance feel. Yeah. Right. Exactly. And then like, oh, no, no, I can do that. Then I wouldn't be able to put six or eight plates on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Right. Yeah. My house. I'm not a resistance band. I can get like three plates. Three plates. I think you can. Yeah. Yeah. On my hack squad. But it depends on that. Yeah. I was going to say it depends on the handscrack because I was just going to say altogether all three of us together. I know we're going to say the same shit. What is the easiest, lightest hack squad that you can load a ton of plates on? I carry it. I carry it. Which one? Oh, I carry it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because the angle is further back and it's smooth as shit. Don't get me wrong. I love that. But it's funny because at the same time you can load it up. Typically, if the piece is old enough, it has been re-welded because that platform flexes over time. And you can see it moving. I see dusty doing hacks on my broads. Yeah. It's going to fucking break. Yeah. But yeah, I think that in my experience, I think that's the easiest one to load out because the angle is lower back and the 80s we had, we had hacksquads. I remember gold's Jim and East Lansing, which isn't there anymore. And I would doubt if we had 10,000 listeners that even one person would go, oh, I've been there. But it was almost a straight up and down hacksquad. But you could adjust the platform. So anytime you get a hacksquad where you can adjust the platform, much like our signal makes a pendulum where you can adjust the platform. That shit is gold. That's good because then if your knees aren't bothering you, you might want to open it up a little bit more. If they are bothering you, want more hip involvement, you can close it up a little bit. But yeah, that was a really nice setup and shit those pieces are gone. They're not to be had anymore. So I, man, I'm in the fence because I didn't think hacksquad was on the plate for us. I was going to say just back squats. That was going to be my pick was just traditional barbell backsquad. But now that I got this transformer bar, I think that I'm, I think I'm evolving. I think it's going to do a lot for me, although like I said, man, you know, I'm hardly lifting anything right now. I've gotten through one leg workout. So in a way, this is kind of motivation for me to keep, so I've done three sets so far back into training legs. That's that's been the, that's been it. But it feels good. Scott, that's better than me. You have three sets of more than I have in the last six, eight weeks. So good for you. I'm jealous actually. I felt good five minute break between each set to catch my breath. What's that, Andrew? I was going to say, um, did you find with the transformer bar and bars like the spider bar that it kind of pulls you forward a little bit more at the top? Have you have you noticed that at all? You know what, man? I'll be looking for that. I have, I, I, I was such late way, what's hard to throw in some weight on? Yeah. I think you'll notice it like you're almost getting an upper thoracic kind of workout in a sense as well to the upper body tight because it does have the tendency to want to pull you forward once you get to a certain weight. For me, the first time I did like three plates on it, I almost fell over because I was like, oh, I've got to, I got to really stay upright on this, you know? So I'm almost like pushing up on the handles on my bar versus, you know, just passively hold on in the sense. That kind of brings me to something. When then we didn't get a lot of hits on here. A lot of likes was the front squat. One of the reasons I wanted this bar was, I love quad training. I like to squat to really focus on the quad. I've been trained to elevate my heels. I have really poor ankle flexibility. So I've elevated my heels since about 2013. And I was able to grow my legs that way. Sure, it's a little bit more sheering on the knee, I think. And I know what they do, they make the platforms now, that people use. I like that mild elevation. But I really wanted to see what this bar was like in that front position because you can, you know, bring the plates forward and do more of like a front squat. I could definitely feel the difference in that. And I'm excited to experiment with it. By the way, this program is not presented to you by Kabuki, but you can check them out. Or get this though. We are kind of affiliated with the Leet now. We're kind of, we've got a link on the link. We've got a link on the Leet FTS, thanks to Skip. So shout out to those guys and shout out to the spiderbar. Spiderbar is great, man. I think spiderbar is great. What do you guys think front gets? I'll talk about this one a bit because I got a little experience working with athletes myself as well. I used to coach, I was a strength addition coach for a semi-probasky ball team for three years. And we didn't have any of our athletes back squat because these guys are all 65, you know, six eight. I think the shortest guy was like 5-11. So when you have a longer femur, it's actually pretty unsafe to put heavy weights on a guy's back. And it's a more safe to put the load more in front of him because it's going to be more in their center of gravity. And they're actually going to target their quads a lot more that way versus their lower back. So I think if you have longer femurs or you're a taller guy, might do better, at least initially trying the front squat at first. My only problem with the front squat is like even like 135 now, like, I should just hurts. Like it doesn't feel comfortable. Like it used to when I was younger for some reason. And I got more muscle now. So I can't do the math and figure out why. But like I was a decent front squatter up until like I was 25 or something like that. And now like I don't even think I could put like a third or a half the way on my upper chest and bang out you know, even half the reps I used to. I don't know if you'd ever said it over time too. Yeah, I feel the same way with friends. But no, I don't think that's what I think really what I think that anybody who's good at front squatting, there has to be it's almost, it takes it takes time to build into being able to. I don't know if it's necessarily, I don't think it's coordination. It is for the first handful of workouts because it just feels a little more awkward. But the reason I don't like them is that I think you make a good point with a long femur. There are exceptions to where and that's why it's always hard when we talk about topics and we talk about or answer questions stuff. We're trying to answer give the best information that we can for the majority of people but everything is still so much an individual basis that it doesn't cover everything. So we may say, oh, friends, squats are great and then someone will go, oh, shit, I've been trying them for a year because you guys said so and they're not great for me. Well, there's the exception. So with friends squats, the thing that I don't like is it's just so uncomfortable and it limits my breathing so much, having it in front of me that I swear that my delts and the ability to keep the bar solid and where it's supposed to be is harder than the workload on my legs. It just becomes so laborious trying to keep everything, my breathing and the bar in place and not having my delts. I swear when I'm done it feels like I've done a front note because I don't know about you guys. I'm going to try to show it right here in my thing. I can't cross my hands and do the shit. I don't know if it's because I have such a narrow, clavicle, my shoulder. I don't know but I have to hold in front and have my elbows up to be able to create that cushion to where it feels relatively comfortable until I'm, you know, five or six reps in and it's fucked my life because I can't breathe or anything else. I'm right there with you. I'm not a big fan of them for that reason and I think you were talking about studies early and talking about talking with Scott Stevenson. If I'm not mistaken, he posted a study or a couple studies not long ago that said that there wasn't much of any difference between quad activation and good activation from the front to the rear squat and I found that kind of surprising. But again, it may have been, you don't know who the people are that are in the study, whether they have longer fingers, they're taller, they're their shorter. It's hard telling that because there's so many variables there but I was actually surprised by that because I would have expected to see more quad involvement from a front squat than a rear squat and that's not what that study, I think it was two studies. I didn't see that post, I didn't see that but that does seem weird to me. It's been a movement I've never really been comfortable with but damn, I'll tell you what man, when someone confronts quad a lot of weight, it's freaking impressive to watch isn't it? Oh yeah, for sure. We'll do this. Feels good. You remember the projects for heavyweight? They're on YouTube and stuff with Justin Harris and Steve Ku Klow with load like six plates or something up for their heavy sets? How do you even like comfortably breathe without weight up there? They're definitely impressive with the front squats. Some of those Olympic lifters actually too are like super, super impressive. You'll talk about like the Olympic guys? Yeah, they're not bigger anything usually but incredible. Sometimes those guys do have crazy quads. You ever see that? Like the Olympic lifters if they've got anything they've got quads on them? I think the big reason for that is I think that might be one of the only lifts where they're getting some center-gloting because a lot of most of the Olympic lifts are just concentric and speed stuff. They get very, you know, they drop the bars when they're doing anything overhead. Sure. They're not getting any of the beef center-gloting which I think that's one of the main reasons why they have smaller upper bodies compared to their lower bodies because they actually get in the center on the squats and whatnot. But yeah, that's an interesting insight I could see there. I could see there being something to that. Hey, what's going on guys? Thanks for watching another podcast here. I think Big Body Building Media and thank you to our great sponsor True Nutrition.com for making this all possible. Truenutrition.com is owned by Dante Trudeau, the creator of DC training. You want to create a supplement company that offered high quality third-party tests and supplements at a fair price. High quality protein powders just about every type you could think of. Huge variety of flavors plus health and performance supplements. Check them out True Nutrition.com. And hey, if you use our code Advices, you directly support our podcast and thanks guys. Let's get back to the program. You know, kind of like what I said at the beginning, squats are something that we will. Well, we always think if you want a big physique, you got to have big legs and if you want big legs, you've got to squat. I think that there are people who are getting away with trying to get around the hard work. And I think that all of us who have been around, we all can be like, you know, kids today. But there's some reality to it. And there was a comment we had that that would kind of be a really nice kind of transition into some of our listener stuff. This was from Nate Spear. He had said, uh, please discuss thoughts on the importance of squatting, dead lifting, barbell row, T bar row, the hard lifts, the first few years of a young bodybuilder's journey. And how does a young bodybuilder know what information to use? For example, I see a lot of young guys taking advice from pros that have changed their training over the years. So they might hear a pro say that all he does is hexquat and leg press. But little with his he know that that pro squatted and walking lunged for his first five years. And now they apply what the pro is doing with their own to their own training. As we talk about this, for anybody who's who's not familiar with us, maybe you're just tuning in for the show to the first time. Maybe you don't know us, maybe you don't know Andrew. Andrew is the coach of Nate, the guy who made that post, who is arguably one of the best bodybuilders in the MPC right now. Shout out Nate. I know if he was watching it. In Nate has some incredible quads. He's a guy. He hasn't been trained in for super long. But he's worked his ass off and he's worked. I mean, he's been training for is it like under competing. I should say for under 10 years as an Andrew. He's been competing for like six years. And he's probably been training for like eight, but I don't think he was seriously trained until about six years ago. So, but right from when he started training, he was doing the hard stuff. And today he's still doing the hard stuff. So yeah. Yeah, tell us a little bit about that about his training. What he's done to get where he is because he's incredible. Yeah, I mean, I mean, I don't know what to say other than he doesn't try away from the hard stuff. Like he's doing the squats. He's doing how it, like he'll send me a video of him doing like a five-please squat for like 10 reps, like continuous tension, no stopping breathing. And then it'll be like, oh yeah, this was after this. And it'll show me the hacksaw. He said he did before that with like seven plates, no bands. And where he got like 20 reps or something like that. So, I mean, I just an example of like a typical leg day for him. When he used to come up and train legs with us up, here in Vermont, it was like, I had to mentally get ready. You know what I mean? Like it was, it was definitely good because we used to push each other so hard on some of these sets that, you know, you're lying on the floor afterwards. I go outside the puke for a minute and the cold air or something. Like it was definitely like intense stuff. And I know he trains that way every single day. And you guys have seen probably recently his, he really improved his upper body pressing shoulder pressing and then coined a barbell pressing three to four plates for like eight reps. Not just like a one rep, almost carry your peck type thing. Like a full like eight to 10 reps. And when we started, he was doing like 185, 225. So he's grinded out, adding five pounds of bar every workout that, you know, just moving up those ranks like crazy. And it's a testament to his hard work for sure. I don't think he literally takes any workout for granted. Because you know, like, you know, like you're like, oh, you know, I just got done the competing season and I've got, you know, 10 months until I'm going to get on stage again. And you know, there's the stuff that can get in your head of like, okay, you got time to kind of relax and take it easy. I think he's mentally, he's like right back in the lab trying to get a strongness because he can and carrying that over into his next competitive season. So that there's literally no lag. Like I had to tell him when to take like four or five days off, like, you know, don't don't go to the gym or, you know, go do some of the fluffy machines and that kind of thing for three days in a row. Yeah, you know, I mean, he's definitely blown your hardest workers out there. Cool. I just wanted to make sure we kind of painted a picture of who he is in his work ethic because he is a guy who has stuck by that stuff and it's really the hard work. It's really paid off for him too. I'm really excited to kind of segue like I said into this topic because I feel like this is completely associated. I mean, none of those movements that we were talking about are easy. You know, skip you were talking about like 20 reps sets on the squat. You do the same thing on the hacksquat. Those are going to be some of the hardest exercises that you do in the gym. I think anything you do with lags where you're really working. I mean, your your heart rate gets so high. Your oxygen gets so taxed. As you were talking about those movement skip, I like I can't think of and I think you kind of reference this to Andrew. I can't think of anything else in the gym that's that difficult. No, I think T-bar and bar rows though. Those are those are tough to high rep dads definitely. Absolutely. Yeah, I would agree. And you know, it may be his question is very valid and I'm actually glad that he asked it because we made of skipped over it without really touching on this, but you know, he's right in the sense that you know, when people beginning to train or starting to train relative newbies, they do go to people with a lot of experience or prefer to go to people with a lot of experience to get training advice and they may get the wrong advises. In the sense that we do tend to talk about what we do now versus when we start and I think a good trainer will make sure that the information that they're giving a specific person is based on their level of training and things like squats think complicated exercises that take that involve a lot of muscles and involve a lot of coordination develop nerve pathways that, you know, a tricep press down just doesn't close grip bench presses in a case like that or dips. Those things are are more important for the person starting out because they don't know really how to generate intensity and even when they do learn how to do that, they're still not able to apply that level of intensity that they're going to get in four or five six years with that same movement. So there is this learning curve. You do have to get in there and just really pound those basic movements but I think as you progress you get to the point where you're like Andrew is talking about or I'm talking about where Steve Cucalo or Phil Heath who don't they don't told big anymore of course Phil never really told very big anyway but Steve you know he doesn't pull big deadlift anymore and he'll admit it but he did early on he may not even you know front squat anywhere near what he was doing or back squat I don't know much about Steve's training anymore but it does evolve it has to evolve it can't ever you're training can't ever stay the same because if it does you in some fashion you're making a mistake because your physique evolves and what your physique needs evolves and the wear and tear on the body evolves and typically will get worse and even if it doesn't get worse you're moving larger pounded so you're going to move into this section where yeah I use the curls as an example you know when you first start out you can curl straight arm and you can come up and try curling straight arm any more after you build any type of mass on your arm and it's just not going to work you can't force your your your wrists into positions that you could have when you were smaller so they're just there those those physical changes that take place over time too and then of course the generation of whether it be knees or back or whatever else training has to evolve and I think trainers need to be careful when they're given information to to someone that they're giving the information that applies to to them specifically based on their history of training. Can I touch on that one too a little bit? Have had it man? Um did also to skip point I think I think you know in a way maybe the Instagram social media might be kind of causing a lot of this because and in the fact that we live in a world where like people can get anabolic substances by going on a website order and I'm almost as quickly as Amazon they're there two days later so I'll my point with this is that I think a lot of shortcuts in a sense have been taken it or it appears that they've been taken by front loading higher dosages a gear using more dangerous types of gear than maybe someone would start with when they're younger in their career and they can get away with some of those less intense less hardcore training exercises like dead lifts, barbell rows, backsquats, that kind of thing. I just think that that kind of plays a role into it as well because the other thing is like everybody's a coach nowadays. So you know Joe Blow has really good genetics who's been trained for two and a half three years takes a bunch of gear, goes pro and basically one point five years and it looks like he's put on 40 pounds of muscle so some kids going to hire him as a coach and this all exactly what he did. Well maybe he didn't have to do the parts of the car as muscle because he's on that he's in that upper echelon of genetics because as this sport is grown I mean you guys you guys know when we all started especially you guys it was a real fringe sport right you go into the gym and it's like maybe one of the guys done a bodybuilding show and they took you onto the one under their wings had you do the hard workouts with them and you know just kind of told you you know how things went. Now the sport has grown so big that we're tracking people genetically elite people that we might have not ever seen before because bodybuilding is so cool today. Truth to get what I'm saying. Yeah so the talent pool is just getting bigger and bigger and bigger. Yeah I feel sorry for a lot of people I've said it a lot over the years but and I always describe the industry and finding a trainer as a giant sea of turds. It really is difficult it has to be incredibly difficult for someone who is not well-versed with the industry doesn't know names or reputations or track records to be able to sift through and find out who really does know their shit and who is I don't want to say clueless I don't think anyone is I like to think no one is really clueless but it has to be very difficult I think when you don't know what you're getting into. I don't know how many times I've had people contact me and go well I've had such a bad luck or a bad run you know training with trainers and I'm just not sure and I mean that's here it's so often that it's just kind of like you're doing everybody else I mean you know welcome. Yeah I think another thing that I see this is something I come up against with the younger people I work with and when I say younger I'll say guys in their early 20s when they are modeling after the genetic elite as they're also they're not only are they picking well okay let me say this I see some guys that are maybe tailoring their workouts after guys that are already like quote unquote there that don't need to put on any mass I think that that is one thing but another thing I see is they're training with like maybe too much volume I see guys that and I think of a guy I just started working with who's training seven days a week and this guy trains hard from what it sounds like I mean you could only train so hard though if you're training seven days the way I describe it is it's like you're at a because I've done it when I was younger I remember going through a phase where I was like I don't have anything else to do with my life I know I'm not supposed to do this I'm just gonna go every day and eventually you know eventually I came to my senses but you come to a point where like you can't get the intensity you need it's almost like I punched out at work and I got to the gym and I punched the clock you know and I like what am I doing today what's my routine okay I'll go through that routine you're not you're not able to get as much out of it and I see that as being almost just just as much of an issue for some of the younger guys and then Andrew like you're talking about with the chemical enhancement you can really kind of make up for overtraining and staying in the gym and being able to continue pushing if you're using gear especially if you're using it really before you need it but that doesn't mean that it's gonna be a one plus one equals two I think that there's gonna be a lot of diminishing returns that are gonna come you're gonna get burnt out I guess a lot faster that's kind of one it kind of related it's it's not exactly the same thing but it's a I guess another another place where I see young people making a mistake when it comes to modeling after the elite because there are guys out there that can handle a lot more and I've referenced this a bunch of times but when Scott Stevenson and I spoke with Brandon Curry last year we broke down like what happens at oxygen gym it oxygen gym they grind you they push you you train a lot and for the vast majority of people that doesn't work and if it doesn't work for you at oxygen gym then you get pushed to the wayside but Brandon Curry can handle that so guys like him stay there because it works because there is that genetically the can handle getting pushed getting pushed he had said to Brandon said like he listens to all the podcasts and he listens to you know the smart people in the industry and one of the big things for him was because I asked him I was like what was the real difference maker that allowed you to push that little extra bit he was already great but what made him able to push that extra level and he said I'd always listened to the to the voice of reason that you need to take a lot of rest and that you needed to give your muscles a break and then I realized at oxygen that I didn't need that that I was that tiny fraction that little tiny half of a percent the Brandon Curry's of the world as I say now that can do that the rest of us can't you know Nate's spirit I'm sure that he needs probably not as much rest as I do but I'm sure he needs more rest than Brandon Curry does I don't know you tell me am I wrong manager I'm curious now you know you know you're talking about the genetic 0.02 percent of all body builders out there the Brandon Curry's a Phil he eats the you know the big rommies that you know their bodies assimilate proteins faster than the rest of us and by that token that means they're recovering assimilating muscle protein and recovering from those hard-sharing his workouts faster than the rest of us you add in chemicals a speed up that process they're utilizing those chemicals better than the rest of us it's it's not necessarily matter hard work you know I think there's a lot of people out here amateurs pros that work very very hard but some of you respond to the training the stimulus and the food better than the rest of us and that's just all it is you just got if you get into the sport and you accept that and you're like I'm gonna do the best I can with my set of you know variables then I think you're gonna do okay but if you go into a thick and like oh we'll bring a curry train six and a half seven days a week them and he's taken this this and this and he's this exact diet now it's not gonna work for you you know you're gonna have to stand it gut you're gonna bad joints and you're probably gonna be out of the sport in two years because you're gonna get burnt out you know hey easy easy go easy I'm a here pal let's not get me now I want to add one thing for a move out I do think it's important I've changed my perspective on how I view the newbie I not ideology but the way they perceive things I used to think it was stupid because I would I would think that it was a logical but it's not it's very logical for someone who has no background and understanding of bodybuilding training supplementation recovery nutrition things like that to look at someone who is big and see what they do I mean look when I was young I hopefully admit if a guy was being a gem I want to know what he did and whatever he would have told me to do I was gonna fucking do it because logically you think that's what got him there it's going to get me there and and that's why I think that these types of discussions I wish they happen more often in the industry because people need to know that there are steps to get there we all want to cut corners any at any point we can but training for 37 years I'll still cut a corner like a mother fucker if I know that I can or think I can cut it the problem is as I spent so much time realizing that cutting corners doesn't work anymore but I still have that that in my brain where I'm thinking to myself hmm maybe I can cut corners on this knee injury and I can do this or I can do that and I'm reminded quickly you know or soon after that that I can't do that I think it's logical it's difficult to look at somebody who's big and in shape so I don't I don't hold it against them for having that that idea that that's who they need to go with I almost want to put it more on the trainers from this representing themselves but I think it's part of it as ego the other part is as I think that people are truly when they have they'll say a guy turns pro and three years I think in his mind I think he does think he's qualified and I think he thinks he's experienced and I think and and and and those terms I guess are relative terms when you think about it he is certainly more qualified than the person coming to him so there's that sure you know it's hard to get mad at some ego come on you don't have to work with me but work with someone who fucking who knows what the hell they're doing don't throw your money at this it's got when he really doesn't know if the fuck he's doing work with someone knows what they're doing but they yeah that's part of the learning process like as after raising kids the same thing you tell your kids over and over and over don't do this stupid shit don't do that stupid shit but they have to learn by making those mistakes and I just like I had to and you had to and they're gonna have to do the same thing fair enough we do have some other listener questions that were added in here uh before we do move on though I mean do you guys want to add me something else Andrew now I think we kind of beat that topic up six different ways and let's do it covered it so we we don't throw one thing in can I throw one thing in hey you're the one that's got the general statement so that's a good point um if you're if you still want more information about squatting and you really want to look to um a source that that has just extremely high levels of say you know knowledge around squatting and and things like that elite FTS is the you know the place to be I mean these guys I've had questions about things where I have gone to those guys and don't know answer the question and the things that they know about foot placement needs we're talking about knee valgus um just yesterday the day before um there was a video that and I mean these these people they you know they know their shit and when you're talking about the bars and everything else of course in lead FTS I don't know if you can hear Linus in the background he's delighted it's so quiet sorry about that there's no background noise on the me talking but elite FTS is the leading equipment manufacturer and I know there are other equipment manufacturers who would argue that but they would lose elite FTS is elite and they sell the best you know training equipment especially for you know power lifting and bars and things like that that if you're looking for bars or you want a different bar or you're trying to your gym owner and you want a variety of bars check out elite FTS because they've got all the shit all the good shit all the good toys yeah I've been watching more of their videos on YouTube to help me with my technique like I said I wanted to figure out how to do a hatfield spot and I just typed it into to YouTube and one of the first things that came up was Murphy's training log so I mean that never hurts I've squatted for a long time put it that way and I still just learned something by checking that out so I'm all for that all right so like I like I was starting to say I asked for training questions this is our our Easter training extravaganza although the recorded version is going to come out after Easter it's all still valid stuff we got a bunch of training stuff I'm not sure I'll just go we kind of covered this a little bit actually I think we already did one of our listeners had asked about front squats now here's the deal this is one of my clients he says can front squats be as effective as backsquats for leg development thanks he's kind of in a situation where this is a big dude over three bills and he's getting into some pretty good shape now he's been working with me for a little while incredible lats strong guy he can't get his arms back the first time I'm gonna maybe have to put him on blast here from a scared to shit out of me he showed me his backsquat and what he did I can't remember if he was squatting like three or four plates he took his arms and he put them I'm gonna move it for you here so you can see me through the holes of the plates so his arms were straight out and I'm just thinking like if he has to bail like what happens you know you get you turned and get turned into a T-bone or you know a wishbone I'm thinking just get you say a T-bone or you said a T-bone or I said T-bone or yeah we hear what we hear but I don't know we kind of we kind of I think already covered that with I think I'm just as effective in for him obviously it's going to be more effective than back squat but I'm still trying to get him to work any shoulder mobility yeah exactly that's important shit too um well so we have here and then I'm gonna actually grab some carbs I've got some weird blood sugar stuff going on it's not insulin just from being sorry sweat a little bit oh yeah I'm sorry I didn't know this yeah I wondered you go grab your carbs we'll cover it all right you read it skip you actually know this guy no problem I know this guy he one is class this weekend and took a he lost a split decision I hate because it's happened to me a couple times got a hate losing a split decision I know it should be this pat on the back like oh you were battling you know and your your buddies try to make you feel better about it but you lost a split decision you were that close and it's like oh but anyway he uh we got to get another show in about three weeks and and that was pretty happy for me's in the um physique division but great physique anyway question thoughts on training body part that is highly developed every other week to work on growing a lagging body part also shout out to Matt to me for helping with my classes we get I guess I gotta have myself that's on training body part that is highly developed every every other week to work on growing okay um what do you think run with it well first congratulations on the class when it's always fun yeah I wouldn't have a problem with I'm always a try something and see how it's working and if it's not working go back to what you know something else kind of guy so I would say absolutely you know pull it back maybe not once a week maybe once every five to six days if it split is you know like a push pull lower body maybe do push pull lower push pull you know a couple days off and start to push pull thing again but yeah I wouldn't see a problem with you know taking a highly developed body part out of the regular training mix and working at a little less frequently what do you think and I think too when you bring up let's use arms as an example even switching to just push pull legs does put so you try steps at the end of a chest and shoulder workout you're not going to be able to hit him as hard you can probably lower the volume a little bit same with biceps so that's an option there too I know myself and I'm staying with arms is the example I don't have very good body parts but my arms and calves tend to be better than everything else I just wish that my everything else grew and was in such great condition as my limbs but anyway what I did was I a couple years ago I think it's been a few years now but I said you know my arms are pretty good shaped they're going to keep their size from pre heavy pressing and pulling I'll train arms every other week kind of like as an experiment and the fucking thing is grew they didn't grow like oh my god now they're just even huge jar then they were before but they grew in a sense that I made more progress spent wise than I had in the last three years prior and I wasn't really I didn't keep back on the intensity or really how I train them but just on the frequency and I was surprised by that then the more I thought about it I shouldn't have been surprised because I do think a lot of people tend to over-trained arms I mean what's the first thing that some of them thinks of when their arms are lagging you're going to train them more frequently we are already pounding and with heavy pulling and pushing and then you're now adding even more direct work on top of the direct work you were doing now if we change that to say chest or legs or something like that if that's a body part that's highly developed I mean I think logically it does make sense if it is more developed you could probably train it less frequently and then be able to give the time and the recovery to other groups of other muscle groups that you're trying to bring up I think the big important thing here is when you're going to give more time excuse me to a weaker body part you also have to make sure that the added training is going to help versus you being overtrained and actually needing more recovery and I think you'll find out real quick six-day weeks should probably give you a good idea because if you're still not progressing any better then it's typically not going to be well now I need even more work it's probably going to be that the recovery is the issue and you're going to have to back out because it's weird about recovery and I don't know if you agree with this or not but I mean I think you would but you can have other muscle groups that grow relatively well tend to recover and then you can have a muscle group that doesn't recover as well and it's kind of an odd thing so there's almost two ways of looking at it overtrained you can overtrain a specific muscle group then you can overtrain your entire CNS or your bodies or so overtrained as a whole and I think that yeah one of the ways I came up with that was I could overtrain my upper chest and start to lose strength I would regress on my upper chest pressing but then I could open with a flatter decline press and still continue to progress and it was just the weirdest most bizarre thing and this happened years ago and I just kind of liked that that wow okay well that seems pretty obvious yeah I agree with the I think the kind of just gets back what I was saying like right out for you know of a training cycle you know whether it's four weeks or eight weeks or whatever and chart your progress and you know if it's work and obviously stay with it because at the same token we don't want to make a great body part worse right we we want to keep it as a great party part we just want to give more attention or do whatever would be more effective to get those other body parts to come up a little bit and I think there's some things you can do with that in terms of nutrition you know you know maybe pushing a little bit more nutrition and maybe certain special chemicals on certain days to try to you know give a little bit more attention to those body parts that do need to come up um so that you might not even need to take you know your strong body part out of that rotation maybe just cut it down to like if you're doing you know six hard sets first say a chess workout if that's your hard you're your good body part maybe just cut it to three and you know spend more time on your delts and your other body parts that need a little bit more work but I do think you can keep it getting to get around weak body parts with you know better you know certain nutritional strategies and certain chemical strategies um and also certain rest strategies you know I think if you put a day off before your weak body part and plan a day off afterwards I think that's going to make a a good amount of difference more so actually than almost any of those other modalities that I was talking about uh I agree complaining so you're you're you're well rested your glycogen fed your your glycogen full and then you train stimulate and then you're giving yourself a full of a day of rest afterwards before you hit the other body parts um I think you're going to increase your recovery on that bad body for that poor body part and it's going to lead to bring coming up. Agreed yep I'm back I pretty much agree with you guys and most everything so I'm not going to say anything on this one because I'm probably just going to say stuff you guys already said. Instead I got another one here well well played well played you got a trap Queen a trap training question here uh and I've got some stuff I will add in when it comes back around to me uh techniques to build traps if deadlifts and heavy heavy the moderate shrugs are no go because of low back pain who wants to take this one first. heavy shrugs have you got joy I got one so all right this is an exercise that I don't really see a lot of people doing I'm not saying I invented or anything but uh everyone has probably a T-BI row well chest supported T-BI row in there and they're gym yeah um if you basically put the weight on there keep your arms straight and then retract targeting your medial traps you will get a nasty pump there um and if you you can go pretty heavy you know you go three four place we don't really need to I would say two to three plates on that if you're an experienced body builder and you can you know if you can keep our row four five plates I think two or three plates is going to be your sweet spot sets of 12 to 15 or something like that and I think you're really going to target at least the lower medial part of your traps um it might not get you know fully up in the cap area but um I I've seen a lot of growth there by doing that exercise myself I could see I think that's good advice but I was vision envisioning or seeing in my head was I don't know how bad his lower back is so maybe getting into position could be tough but if you set up a high incline and adjustable bench and you've really high like not not straight up but like this much of an incline and you lean into it there's a catch here though and this is kind of important you have to be able to stand on the frame of the bench or it will slide exactly or tip so if you can lean into it and do dumbbell shrugs that would be not straight up but kind of up and back because of the incline then it would be similar to what you're saying so I I think with your example it would be easier to get into position if you had lower back problems versus trying to get heavier dumbbells into position on an incline because you'd have to like lean into it you'd have to almost kind of fall into the bench a little bit yeah but I think both of you set up your life is a better option though well maybe if you set up two benches alongside it with the dumbbells rested on that so that you're kind of squat down to pick them up you're already already locked out and you kind of your feet are on the back of the bench that the platform to keep it steady and you stand up with the weights so you're not like you know coming forward with them you're kind of gliding up the bench a little bit it might be great work or you might need a body that maybe maybe you've got one of them to body hands you the other one if you have a training all right that might be the best yeah for that so yeah I think you're right it would probably work but then if you use three benches in my gym you're probably going to get bitched at some point so these are gonna be pissed because I'm gonna be waiting to do something well didn't somebody say it was the biggest guy I mean it or maybe it was a stop flying well that and I'm usually the only one in my gym now but I guess I was thinking of the gym that I trained clients and too so I got a couple thoughts I feel like number one I see people using way too much weight on shrugs and they're not using a good range of motion so I mean I've dealt with low back issues too I've trained and had to watch my low back even doing shrugs I think that my first stop would be can you get more out of less oh Jeremy's with us right now what's up man he's watching the show live what's he say here skip I actually just I gotta move some stuff around here just tried he tried that today he tried your move today okay cool very cool me's on the bottom of an incline uh it didn't have to go heavy and it worked really good cool so he put his knees on the bench so he's kind of like actually on the bench like in a new in position I think he's gonna be awkward yeah he's in but he said he's not in the army yeah yeah but he may have done that because he didn't have the frame to stand on because if I would think I mean standing it against it would be a lot easier but if you don't have the frame to stand on it's gonna move or it's gonna tip forward yeah so yeah I thought was uh look at how much weight you're using look at your technique can and that I think that really goes into play for all of us but especially if you have a back issue you already can't sling weight around and a lot of stuff you're doing uh you know my leg training for long time with low back issues was how do I get the most I can while working within my limitations you know with x amount of pounds um I think about like one of one of one of meadows things that uh when I used to train back with Shelby we do shrugs at the end of the workout and John would have us do like a squeeze at the top for one full second and then a slow negative how often do you really see people doing a slow negative on shrugs let alone squeezing all the way up a lot of times like our stress yeah yeah we've got to do it a lot of times the two second squeezes and that cuts your weight down by about 30 40% easy absolutely so I don't care what you're using before you might only need like I mean the strong guy might only be using 85 pound dumbbells on with the two second squeeze and the slow negative so I mean you could you could really get creative and I think you have to get creative creative if you want to keep getting stronger with low back issue so that's one I don't know how he would do with this also I wonder too low back can he can he train sitting down if he can I mean seated shrugs there's that or uh I don't really do these a lot but have you guys ever seen those like reverse shrugs in the Smith machine yeah over and yeah again I think it just comes down to the yeah but I think overhead like that I think again it would probably load his I got to go against you one thing Scott but I don't think sitting down and doing shrugs is a good idea if he's got a lower back and I'll tell you why because you don't when you stand up you can you can flex and tighten your glutes to help stabilize the lower back and you can't do that when you're sitting down it's one of the things I don't like it I don't like about the hammer the typical hammer because of those pictures that's the picture yeah and I had a client ask me oh they said what are these lower handles for I'm like oh that's because when they made this piece of equipment 25 years ago some damage ought to be great idea to sit down and put these handles down here now for the average person that wouldn't be an issue or may not be an issue but you lose stability in the lower back if you're seated holding on too a lot of weight because you're not able to contract and keep your glutes tight to help stabilize the lower back so if he's already got an existing issue and I only know this because I had such horrible back problem and I thought oh this could be a great idea and it turned out to not be a great idea so it didn't it didn't work for me I don't know if it would work for him every back injury is different but still it worked for me but I think you're probably right I think I'd go back to my number one I was looking for additional stuff to add in you know my number one would be you know really see what you can get out of the least amount we've got some more stuff here we can power through and figure out what your lower back issue is don't try to train around it on with the exception of while you're trying to bring your back back to a healthy stand like a healthy position I think a lot of people they feel like they have lower back issues and they're always going to have them and you don't want to get into that mindset you want to find out what's wrong and you want to rehabilitate it and get your back back very nice all right how to go about rest when doing unilateral work like one arm rows or split squats do one side then rest the other that would text the latter side wouldn't it maybe do one side rest a bit do the other rest a bit repeat what do you guys think there I think it's a good question yeah so do you guys train with partners when else got you train your house and get rid of the wife or I train with my wife and god love her she's in the other room she may hear me but I don't consider her my train partner because she's not going to help me for shit so I train by myself for all intents and purposes but well I'm lucky because I usually have a stable of training partners to choose for them usually a lot younger than me that are on the way up and you know kind of push me but anyway so I find that like so you're doing rows for instance you know once you get to like a certain way and you're doing your all out you know heavy sets I definitely want to do my one arm first and then I'm gonna let him go and do his arm while I'm breathing because I want to get my breathing back down to where it was for that other side so I'm given it the same opportunity as I did and you know that's for you know the Bulgarian split squats or you know one arm rows or those are really the only two examples I can think of maybe you're trying to do like the Bulgarian split squat drop set of death go one like right into the other it's just not gonna and pretty sure you're not gonna make this right great you're not gonna make it through that's like a lot of it because it's the oxygen death more than anything but um but yeah I think it's good to you know once you get to those heavy sets you want to make sure you're given both sides equal opportunity as much as possible to to get the most out of each set so I don't disagree with that I would like to say I will add a caveat though because I'm actually experiencing this myself where I have an issue with my right lat right now it's a neck injury I'm doing a lot of PT and stuff with it um some and when I'm trained about myself I will actually go do my right arm and then go into my left arm at kind of a deficit in a sense on the rows because I want to I don't want this side to go get too far ahead of my right injured side so I kind of just I just kind of counteracted my first point there but with the caveat of this side is needs to come up so I'm given it the the best you know the best the best opportunity and I'm handy caping the other side a little bit so it doesn't get too far ahead of the other one so now I don't let a training partner go but only because I don't have one but I do recommend just like you're saying there should be a little bit of a get you got to get a little bit of your breathing bag whether it be lunges lunges or Bulgarian squats are a good example because even though you're supposed to be using the front leg to do 95% of the work the back leg is going to work sure so if it's already fatigued I mean how are you possibly especially if you're going to push as close to failure as you can you're going to end up with you know once the other thing too that I think is important situation like this when you're working one side over the other is start with your weaker side I was just still getting you don't start yeah you start with your weaker side because then at your strong side you might if you do happen to lose a rapper too then it will at least balance out but you still want to try to obviously train both sides equally which is another reason that I don't like to do one side all the reps on one side and the other side it's a me thing I'm OCD but I like to alternate left right left right left right that sort of thing you can't do it on lunges so you might be well skip what do you do I do a sequence I'll do the lower reps so they're not as exhausting but there'll be more like a say a six six left six right without stopping six left or five left five right four and I do a six five four three two one where there's nowhere that way by the time I'm to the end both legs are so far to that it doesn't matter and what is it benefiting any more than the other are you guys both right handed I'm actually am a nexus so I find my balance is actually pretty good with my strength on both sides I can throw baseball footballs on both sides you're getting where you are when you were a kid did you right with both hands no but I can you can but I'm going to I can't you I can't you can I don't I wrote I wrote right handed okay I'm just curious I'm just curious which foot when you go to walk which foot steps first I'm just curious I was tough I'm usually like I'm I go escape more I'm more balanced I'm I left yeah okay I'm more if I'm to jump on a skateboard I lift my left as well yeah so you're left which your left foot kicks or your left foot stands on the skateboard just get I would kick either way I don't have a preference but if I if I was just if I would push on the board yeah yeah which puts on the board if I chose I would I would I would lead with my left okay you're the better player you're doing your dual Bulgarians but squats which leg you feel more in control with yes I can't do that because they're both I don't have okay I know that sounds like that but I really don't I am I almost is equal 50 50 if it's not it's 49 51 I mean I just don't have if I have to pick a weaker side development wise like visually yeah my right side isn't is pretty it's my little strength yeah strength isn't gonna I don't have a left or right I know that's fucked up but no that's not my same thing I didn't my foot or my shoulder issues and shit like that early on but I'll give you a little so my left leg is more coordinated like if I want to do like a single leg stiff like a deadlift for example just not that I do but if I wanted to I'm way more balanced I can go up and down on that my right one I feel like I'm gonna fall over if if I write foot on the ground but my right leg is actually stronger than my left like if I was doing single leg leg presses I can do more with my right leg oddly enough my left leg is more developed so figure that one out right just a random question I had to get me thinking yeah alright we had one about putting the foam roller I did a follow because I wasn't sure what he was talking about have you seen people using a foam roller under the shoulder pads to change the angle of the hacksquat I know dusty does this how does that work and what are some other ways to change angles to isolate different parts of the quad I don't have any experience with this if you guys do you can but I know I do it I do it myself quite often it feels what's more comfortable to me on my lower back for one thing I feel like if you feel like I'm able to target my outer sweep a little bit more I feel more in control and I do that tell you the truth then when I'm flat back against the the pad be good maybe because I have where do you put it all or to try to just right underneath your shoulders so like okay you know like the the arms of the of the pad you put the roller right here and then you're laying again so your upper traps are the the you can't hold on to quite as far you you're going to be a little more yeah yeah yeah that's why I have to try my hacksquat okay yeah I thought I tried everything I'll be got to you know I haven't used it but I see people use it I see dusty use and I haven't done it but in terms of what I was going to say in terms of other ways so like change angles position that kind of thing in activation you got to cut the weight on this one but I really like going up on my toes on the hacksquat putting your feet as low as you possibly can and let you knees purposely go over your toes again this isn't like don't think you're going to if you're six plate hacksquat or you're not going to do six plates on this or if you do your student because you're going to have some major you know try one or two plates or something like that and I think you're really going to get the cure drop really well especially if you really control your speed don't bomb out in the bottom and explode up like really take three second negatives and really stretch the tissue at the bottom and then contract hard on the way up I think you're going to get if your cure drops a week I think that's a great way to make them come off thing time wasn't that a Tom Platt's Mountain Dog type of I think Tom had John do that I think yeah yeah yeah yeah I've seen Tom Platt do that before I just realized something I don't want to side track is again after I said the left foot right foot thing but apparently I am we talked this entire show about training so far and that's what we're going to finish up talking about too we talked about squat technique pretty in depth not once did we talk about depth just thrown it out there I'm not saying we have to I just thought that was interesting I think what it was I think we all kind of assumed between the three of us I think that's really what it came down to I think that's what that was it I thought it was the kind of man I'm a joke it's like I'm making short and sweet at least from my yeah I've had it man if you want to you want to get as low as you can before you have any type of pelvic tilt yeah pelvic pelvic tilt then you're putting your lower back in a vulnerable position so you can even know you can physically go lower you shouldn't go lower you should increase the flexibility of your hamstrings to be able to squat lower without your hips turning underneath your posterior what's called posterior pelvic tilt otherwise yeah you want to sweat I think as deep as you can I think that you're fine if you're a parallel and I've seen a lot of I'm going to be honest I've seen a lot of really good body builders develop and this is within the last five to seven years develop in sane legs not squatting to parallel and a lot of pros and I mean I see it almost I'll see one person every couple days on Instagram that is very well developed and not squatting to parallel so I don't even sometimes I wonder I would like to think that it's the genetically gifted can get away with things like that and you also have to understand what parallel means because once the legs get so big sometimes it looks like not it's like but you have to remember there's a bone in there somewhere the six inches underneath all that visible line and if you're a yeah it might be it might not have to go to parallel because you know things like hamstring and hamstrings and glutes kind of get in the way they press against the calf and you can't get all the way down there like you can when you're skinny it's like that barbell curl example I was talking about earlier but I do think that you should go as low as you can until you get to the point where it's called a butt wink pelvic posterior pelvic tilt and it may not injure you if you're young and made a rubber but if you keep doing it ears and ears and over time it's going to really wear on your lower back and it ends up nasty I just thought of it because I was listening to Andrew talk the question being you know any other variations you can do to kind of manipulate the movement to get development in different areas of the leg and I thought to myself like oh I think the number one thing is depth I know King the guy who wrote this he's local to me and he's he's got great depth he's got a really nice squat I know his his his depth is good but since skip had a chance Andrew do you want to chime in on your thoughts about depth do you mean to ask to grasp all that I'm going to go back to your what you first said leading into this topic of um it was all just assumed that yeah you're at least going to depth or and and I think all of us can agree when we're watching someone squat right off the bat we tell like yep that steps or and he's leaving a little bit you know that you could go a little bit deeper maybe you're just happy you know yeah if I say he is if it's just talking about guys but um so I think we all know a good squat when we see it you know um I feel like you know I can watch my videos and and be like okay you know that's not going to win a powerlifting competition wouldn't be legal in a powerlifting competition but I feel like that's that's that's parallel for me in the sense and it's causing my legs to grow you know I'm feeling a two days later you know so yeah skip you got anything you want to add in on uh it variations and stuff with leg training man I don't know we covered we covered a lot I mean I'm glad that you did touch on depth because I did assume I think we all just kind of assume that that was that was a given um yeah they're out for one more thing and this had this relates to any type of lower back low vulnerability as well I think it's difficult if you if you have any type of issue with your lower back you need to use a little bit wider stance so that your your midsection can kind of come down in between your knees instead of using a narrow stance where you basically run the risk then of that that that pelvic tilt happening sooner so I think if you if you have a lower back issue or it's not too bad but you can still squat but you want to be safe with the movement you need to open up your stance I'm not talking about sumo anything but to go narrow on hacksquats you know like real narrow stance or to try to squat with a narrow stance or even leg press for that matter and still go and get the depth that you want to get I think it's it's an increase of vulnerability you gotta be very careful with that because um those lower back issues I'm telling you man they'll just they'll bring things to a screeching hole and then only a one back on the right in your brain what's that yes I was gonna say once you've had one bad one you're just kind of waiting till the next one happens like before you get ready for those really heavy sets it crosses your mind like there's there's there's a very there's a threshold that you pass that that's your pre injury and then once you have had a bad one you're living with that knowledge after that every time you go and do something heavy whether it's a deadlift a squat and that's why eventually you get to a point where you're just like you know what it's not worth doing this exercise anymore because every time I try to do it I run into this a little tweak in my back and then I can't do this for two and three weeks and it throws this off so I think that's why as we get older we kind of throw certain exercises out or we find ways to make them harder without utilizing more weight to keep it in the arsenal so yeah I mean one and a lot of guys like you know you talk to them and like you know they're just genetically lucky they just you know if they're in their late 30s and they haven't had a major back injury yet and they're still squatting they're very lucky yeah and I literally think it's just the luck of the draw you know or maybe it's just it hasn't hit pot up to them yeah you know yeah yeah I think too I just kind of speaking generally about you know when we're talking about like variations uh Cain's question that he had I think just kind of something that crossed my mind is for the vast majority of training I think just keeping your feet in what what feels like the most like your standard stance is going to do the majority of the of the work right there don't force your stance yeah it's like a central yeah yeah yeah that's how I'm getting that man I think the altering and stuff I mean sure you can do some little tweaks to it and stuff here and there and like you said Andrea you're bringing the feet way down but go really much lighter that's not your meat and potato so like that's not you know the foundation so it's like you know these things are and I think Cain gets that too these things are in addition but I guess I just wanted to kind of make sure that I I said it too for maybe anybody who's listening to this or watching this that is pretty new. So I think you're one more thing yeah because there are gems all over the place I'm sure that we continue throwing them but at the top of your squat at the top of your leg press it's top of your hacks wide no matter what the squat is you're doing you should be able to hold a pencil long ways linked wise wait what not this way it should be able to hold it I want to make sure no one misunderstood you should be able to hold a pencil in the cracking your ass you're good should be contracted at the top of any squat they should be contracted and if they're not you can't hold a pencil like you can't think like what I'd be able to hold a pencil right now in the cracking my ass then you don't have enough glue activation you're not contracting your glutes hard enough at the top they're not doing enough work and that I think that's leg press that's any type of squat I mean there may be something one type of squat that I can't think of on top of my head that might somebody might say well wouldn't be for this well okay you fucking win but the large majority of you should be able to hold a pencil in the cracking your ass. Well and if your glutes aren't activated on top of the glass what what's going on? what's going on? You lower back. So your whole thing up up a more injury that way you know you've got to do the tie in your point right there so yep yeah listen if guys are listening to this you're listening on our new RSS feed think big body building media if you were watching this on YouTube we appreciate having you along and if you haven't hit that subscribe button yet please do because we've got a bunch more shows coming out here I want to think our sponsor turnutrition.com now that I'm getting back into training I'm looking forward to getting back on my parian de and everything else I use from them they've got everything from sports supplements to high quality multivitemens everything you can think of check them out use our code advices check out skip at team skip.com and you and you do you have a website or do you suggest people reach out to you? what's your what's your site? uh Instagram is fine bodyberry.com is my website or gmail my emails right on my Instagram so but yeah thank you. Excellent and you guys know how to reach me here at the channel or feel free to drop me an email and make nanny diets at gmail.com guys this is a really a nice pleasure I really enjoyed talking and sitting here and just talking training with you guys for a while especially considering I haven't been able to train hard I'm glad to be kind of thinking about it again and thank you guys for firing me up I appreciate it. Nope same here I want to get back to leg training myself so talking about it gets me all excited a couple more weeks I should be able to get back to work so we'll see. Right on thanks guys. And everybody everybody the live feed we appreciate you and FI I and Drew had a delay so we appreciate you working with the delay and Drew. designed sir...

Yeah, the way I'm approaching this is drugs that are easy to manage. Yeah. Or drugs that have low negative impacts. I mean, really, you could use anything, but realistically, if somebody wanted to come to me and they're like, hey, I run 150 tests per week. If we simply went to 300 tests, 300 masks, the guaranteed, you're going to have a heck of a time. You know, we could run a cycle like that for 12 weeks. And you can continue to look better and better through due to lack of August. You guys are the best, like two brothers who argue, but still have each other's back and love each other. Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Dude, dude, dude, dude, dude! You're my mom! What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I'm Scott McNally and all of our programming is brought to you by you. The people of Patreon Thank you very much for your support. I think we have a couple of Patreon questions today There's your famous yon everybody you're waiting for it We're brought to you by strong sports and Trisha go to strumsports.com and you can get some great health stacks Especially for your encycl and you're in the UK then you're gonna need to check out strum and if you're in the UK Get your lab work done by Dave go to evalbloodanalysis.com Definitely if you're on cycle or not you need to see what your labs are and Dave can help you with that Because the NHS from what I understand doesn't really do a lot for you guys So I'll check out SupplementSource.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that do change from week to week So keep checking back with them and of course true nutrition dot com I get all my protein powder my creatine and my collagen from them every month and I pay for it Just like you guys I use the code though code think to get a discount and of course that helps to support our programming Dave we got a bunch of stuff we had a lot of comments last week we'll talk about those I know you've got a shout out. We're gonna get back into cars so we're talking this is when we talk blood with like Drugs and stuff. This is more like like the gear of our other show blood sweat and gear But a different kind of gear so we've got some gear heads that want to tune in and hear you talk about Supernup your truck And I know you got some shout outs too. We're gonna actually look at a website at the end From these guys here in Michigan that are doing some cool stuff with cars But we have a lead topic Well, of course we have your listener questions comment with new questions. We'll get to him next time The lead topic though is last week we did the worst Steroids for average Jim Bros and we talked about all the things you wouldn't want to take in why we talked a little bit about What would be a great cycle for your average Jim bro and what good compounds would be but we didn't get into it deeply So today the best cycles for average Jim Bros Hollywood Dave over here. He guys for you guys. He's not on a video Audio listeners Dave has got sunglasses with him today Yes, and explain why it's gone Because you think you're that cool right no because I broke my glasses and These are the well I have these that are prescription which means I can see shit Yeah, and then I have a overpowered pair that I use for drawing which then that close vision of Scott's face It's just not I'm not ready for that listen how how good can you see right now without your glasses You're blur it okay how many fingers in my hold no I can see that you freaking okay. I'm just testing you how about now That man You're right, too. That's good very good Dave It's the messages the chat. I struggle with okay, so all right, man You know last week we talked about why you wouldn't want to take certain compounds as an average Jim bro That wasn't doing a competition because Competition is all about trying to look a certain way for one hour of one day It's really just an illusion really Versus what we're trying to do for non-competitors is Create a look and maintain that look be able to hold that long term like hey I want to get in great shape for the summer and look ripped It's not just one day. That's like hey We're gonna try to ride this out for 12 weeks you know or You know the opposite trying to gain as much muscle as possible, which I think there's less variation between Contest Brett or excuse me between competitors and non-competitors in the offseason, you know what I mean? Because we can all do the same things to grow Yeah, but if you're looking at stuff on the milder side You know so people are looking at a I'm probably a more Health to reward balance this a little bit more health Tip than I would say test because it is just so well tolerated in general. Yeah, must Master I'd take it a step further and say mast e yeah, yeah, I'd stay away from fast like this Unless there's a genuine need to have it that's sort of level of finite controller I'd stay away from fast like doesn't go long-est this yeah, so test E or C mast E And then the only thing I had considered as a fast act in if you were sort of looking for more size would probably be MPP No no long acting daca If you're talking the health reward ratio aspect, I think I'd stay away from Deka you'd favor NPP over Daca Just for sure I exposure to yeah, so if I was say I was If I was looking at somebody was a bodybuilder and wanted to gain serious size then I would be all over test and Deka You know I love it. You know I have a big fan of it, but there's no denying And it seems to be a more prevalent problem these days that there's more and more people struggling to cope with Deka Yeah, from a mental aspect I've never had an issue in that sense But it seems to be someone that's coming up more and more common So if I was looking for a low impact in from a health aspect so a low risk cycle for someone off season Who trains Because he enjoys it wants to bit a bit more size on once a look of it bigger for the V Then I'd probably basically around test mass With MPP, but I wouldn't even do MPP for the full cycle. I'd do it for a section of the cycle Okay, that that way if there are any you know issues around mood depression coming in It's quick out. There's no hassle easy to get rid of It does generally seem to be better tolerated than Deka for people that are a little bit sensitive And I think that's just because total plasma Levels are gonna be slightly on the lower side with MPP Okay, so I could see what you're saying. I mean just to reiterate what we said last week too It's not as if we're saying that you can't you know Anything that you wanted to use but it's a matter of there are I think a lot of people who are just looking to get Something a little bit extra, you know, they're not looking to do like hey I'm not trying to become you know the next Nick Walker. I just you know I want to try to gain a little bit more extra muscle in my T or T When I do something a little bit more than that, but also like I don't want to sacrifice my health So I think and I can see where you're coming from how MPP wouldn't be quite as big of a commitment as Getting into Deka. Let me ask you this. Let's take a guy on T or T What about Orals? What about Maybe just eight weeks of adding in some Enervar at a low dose yeah, the way I'm approaching this is drugs that are easy to manage Yeah, or drugs that have low Negative impacts and a bit of people go to one about Primo you know my thoughts on Primo But also Primo is actually not that simple to manage because of the HDL adalctoration It does actually make things a little bit more complex and also because it is such an effective AI It can actually drive East region too low so It's not it's not a harsh compound but its management is actually a little bit more complex than people Sort of realize that I personally feel anyway From an oral point of view Low debol is tried and tested it does present a high level of East region management Okay, if you're only going to be running 10 milligrams you might not have such an issue But if you're going to start getting sort of 30 milligrams of above Then we're going to see some issues in management complexity there so that might not be for everyone Yeah, and a Var is a good choice T ball is a good choice Winstrel is well Though there is obviously the potential joints in sort of older people so I'd probably stay away from Winstrel for older gentlemen But I think if you're below four you'll probably tolerate it quite well I'll tell you what I would think here's my thought process on it I would think okay Winstrel does have a specific look but if we could use mast instead and you know what I mean get a hardening DHT effect from that I would personally want to opt for that for the health purposes for health reasons You know it's not gonna be a stressful in the liver. It's not gonna be quite as hard on your cholesterol You know But yeah, I think and about he ball let's do very good choices Yeah, talking about an oral addition to the T. I'd say yeah, he very good choices You could use those to either grow or to cut really yeah, yeah And they've got a nice performance boost as well. Presently with T ball you know if you're an athletic individual You're looking more for a performance sort of approach where you you want to improve a sport performance than T ball is a very good choice That was well yeah One thing that we didn't mention last week on our our topic of like the worst, you know steroids for Jim Bros Was insulin and somebody brought up What about managing insulin as a non-competitor? I honestly I don't have a problem using it with a non-competitor if they're interested in it But you know I generally use insulin in a and a really Controls specific fashion, you know But I wouldn't have a problem putting it in with a non-competitor my caveat to that is is that you would really just want to know what you're doing I would consider it to be somewhat of an advanced compound of understanding how half-life's work and stuff, you know I think the other thing with insulin is you're only gonna get Something out of it if you are really More on point with diet and training and etc. Yeah, I think for the average person insulin increases or insulin additions Not really get a yield much for them You're um Maybe help with somebody who's struggling with appetite and that side of things potentially But also if you're gonna use it regularly you need to be super consistent with your calorie intake as well So there's all those things to consider so It's it's not something that I think is off-balance from a risk element I think it's more a case of You've got to be on point to get anything from it so it's maybe Not gonna be as beneficial as people think You know that the days of oil insulin is the most animal it compound you can use and I signed up to that in the early days as well And you know High dose and everything else with discuss this in the past it does has Have a dramatic effect on the look But it's not something that's sustainable So I think if you're looking at cycles there are easy to manage on complex and We'll work around somebody you I'm not training today because I've got to work late or I've missed a meal so I've grabbed a burger Yeah, you know Then I wouldn't be looking at insulin in that sort of scenario of a person I'd agree with you I'd agree with you and it's not because like once again. It's not like well you don't deserve to use it Yeah, it's not okay keeping you're just not gonna get anything out of it. Yeah, and it might actually be a negative If your diet isn't nailed right you mean because you can get fat using insulin as well so oh, yeah, yeah, yeah That I agree and obviously the insulin resistance side of things becomes most significant if somebody's already got a poor diet control Yeah, yeah, most average Jim Bros could stand to get leaner Then they do you know the one thing about competition is competition forces you. It's an outside catalyst that forces you to like Step your game up and in general people are going to take their physique further and get leaner if they are Competing then they would otherwise Versus if you're you know just going to the gym more casually and maybe you aren't as a hundred percent Committed then yeah, I could definitely see insulin is not being Huge benefit if anything improving your insulin sensitivity would be you know getting leaner would be getting more out of your own natural insulin and And you know running some some gear with that I would say a real basic type low What's the word that we're we're looking for low commitment cycle would be like you said initially just Increasing the test you know you take it because we have a lot of guys where like I'm on tier T what should I do with this if you're taking a hundred and fifty test So and I'll say it this way Dave that testosterone is it is a Unhormone that exists in our body and it's also a drug you know if we take extra vitamin C We just pee that vitamin C out we don't like utilize 10 times the amount of vitamin C that everybody's can handle but what's a testosterone on the other hand It'll just keep building and building and you will get a stronger effect So your TRT is doing one thing but when we push you into that super physiological range You know with your levels. Let's say you went to 300 or 400 even 500 test It's going to be a completely different animal than what your doctor has prescribed It is yes I also One drug that we haven't touched on and I actually think works quite well in this this conversation is EQ Yeah, and you know, I'm not a big fan of EQ but though it does cause bleficemen It's easy to manage it's not a complex management process. He's not anything you really need to balance blood get thick Don't eat blood job dog. You know, it's so simple that it's not You know I'm in the time balance estrogen levels or try and balance products in levels. You just it's thick get rid of some that's it Yeah, have you heard of EQ becoming more popular in the UK as of late? Not particularly though I have actually I've actually given it to a few people not given it given it in cycle plums In cycle plums before you Stop I'm sorry spores but where's me? What the heck are you doing there, Dave? What is that green tea green tea? You're drinking green tea. It looks very thin freshly brewed mate that's the onion in the mel thing in the bomb. Oh, okay. Does that make with your water? That's made with Yorkshire water with Japanese green tea All right, I'm trying to think what else we we haven't covered here And I think though the main take home point is is that you know that What is maintainable what is not the the biggest commitment and and what can you get the most out of? I mean really you could use anything but Realistically if somebody wanted to come to you know came to me and they're like hey I run 150 tests per week if we simply went to 300 tests 300 masked Guarantea you're gonna have a heck of a time. You know, especially with the right diet getting into shape and Let's say that you start that cycle now in the middle of May You know we can run a cycle like that for 12 weeks and you can continue to look better and better You know through June July August No, I agree Would like to make a request though of those that are less experienced with unabulled Please what's that? Please learn milligrams. Yes, there is that What do you mean by this? I mean drugs are dosed in milligrams not milliliters Yeah, there is nothing more frustrating than having a conversation with someone about their drug usage When they talk in mills constantly and it's like it doesn't actually mean anything Learn to speak in milligrams Um it will be better for you in the long run Yeah, it's a thing there there there was and I guess that that sums it up. We talked about or else We talked about Different compounds that you could use and really you could use any of them But I do think the ones we mentioned in listen I'll put premo in this group I know you're not a fan of premo. I think part of that is the overuse of premo lately But hey, I think you can have a a great cycle with it But you know as you mentioned estrogen management you got to pay attention and whether you're a Competitor or not I want to know where your estrogen is sitting after the gear builds up You know what I mean? Do we have to manage this in any way as it too low as it too high? I want to be able to always have that in a place that's gonna be as healthy as possible for you You know I think one of the things that begins premo is not the drug. It's the fact that it's regarded as this safe drug that doesn't need any consideration Yeah, and and that's not the case There are some considerations to be need and actually it's not a dangerous drug You know, it's not we're not talking to drug that has potential that renders. Yeah, not in the slightest But there is some management that can create some problems if you're not aware of it Which is much less likely to occur with the other compounds that we've discussed? Yeah, yeah, I feel like that's always the case that that's my fear too that when things get swung so far and to wonder I mean because people used to look at AI is the same way right people used to look at a Rimmidox Is what you just take a bunch of a Rimmidox and they didn't factor that in as being you know any relevance to your health It was just like what you just did you know you just know big deal. It's cheap. You take it I Think that there's an element of that happening now with some of the mitochondrial enhancers You know people are across the board like oh, I want to enhance mitochondria. I didn't know I needed to but yeah Now that I know I want to do that and I'm a big fan of that stuff of course SLU has been a game changer for me, but there is How would you put it Dave there's there's like waste product from The work that mitochondria does like mitochondria generates energy and as a result there's reactive oxidate What is it? Reaccidate reactive oxygen species and And that's basically like free radicals, you know, we have I'm sure good with the big words So if you're struggling with them, I'm definitely struggling with them So I'm not even gonna attempt it to fit. Yeah, I though I'm always I've always run by a caveat when it comes to antibiotics Well, all performance in image Johnson drugs and this may be a little bit basic, but I serve me well I've not always listened to it in fact sometimes I've done right ignored it but I Was once taught actually in America many many moons ago in an economic lesson that there are no three school meals Yeah, everything in life has a price and I believe this is very true of antibiotics and it needs to take particular consideration when you're discussing stuff like research Cames and developmental drugs. Yeah, so there's always a price Sometimes that price is fair Sometimes it is not and so I would always be wary if you don't know the cost I'd always be cautious around drugs that you don't know the negative cost that they're gonna imply because they're always will be that to some degree Yeah, and And so that's the only thing that I've been wary of so you know when it comes to new development compounds I am always probably overcoursious and I think I'm probably overcoursious more because I'm Advising of a people and what they're gonna do Yeah, and so I feel like a height and responsibility that if I mess it up It doesn't matter if I mess me up. I live with the consequences But yeah, it's you know there's a lot of stuff come out about the GLP ones and such And a lot of it to be fair is misuse of the Decompound rather than the compound itself sure, but the pancreatis type stuff and the pancreatic problems they are Not really designed around misuse. They are but it does only affect about one to two percent of users But so there are some genuine issues around some of this drug use that we we Free hold quite Reddly at the moment is being safe to use Agreed guys. I gotta take a break to do the whole like sure subscribe thing, but I also want to say thank you to you The internet's kind of a weird place, in case you didn't know and I'm glad that we've put the community together That we have I'm grateful to read your comments in fact. I know a lot of youtubers that don't read comments I read all of them and I try to get back to everybody so if you comment I will see it and I'll try to get back to you also the like button is Absolutely free a charge. You don't have to pay anything to hit it and it does help us out of ton It's not gonna like push us into your algorithm But it will help other people to hopefully find the show So if you like our stuff, please try to help us out. All right listen We have a bunch of listener questions. We had some comments to in the live stream Cardavor muscle is with us. He said hey guys. I just became an uncle Go grab that you're gonna stick him now. He's like uncle Dave What that oh blind We did have a bunch of listener questions you guys are welcome to comment with questions And we will do our best to get them on the next show All right, I'm gonna start from the top here Love the show guys you guys are the best like two brothers who argue but still heavy Chothers back and love each other. They do The overall word might as be acceptable like like but love Scott could you please ask Dave How much is too much when it comes to importing gear into the UK like what's the limit on orals or injectables before your in trouble? Also since he's making a court appearance I'd hope that he was more organized there than he is on the show with his advice Not you not usually Not usually I've turned up with a wrong report and also so before now That's a nightmare. Yes, so So I actually try to get rid of that job. I've got to do because it's not really worth doing but yeah anyway To the to the to the to how much the there is not all importation well If you're importing it in the sense of your bringing it your post in it in All importation of steroids to the UK has been illegal since 2012. Oh, okay here If you're bringing it in on your person There is no real guidelines It just says personal use and You need to be realistic about this and not start saying well I've got 20-tops of deba that's personal use fuck off. I really like deba that they're dumb, but they're not quite that dumb So you've got a bit a little bit sensible. Oh, I'm built by for me and me makes that's called social supply That is illegal as well. Yeah, so You know, there isn't really a guideline the medicines act. I think and I'm spit ball in here But I think it's something like 277 pounds of value that the allowed you to bring in medication for personal use But there is no guideline for antibiotics The other thing is if you get stopped at border Yeah, it's down to individual border control officer They're unlikely to have any knowledge them more than likely to Confiscate the drugs in the first instance and then you'd have to go through a lengthy process of arguing your case before they agreed or disagree He does to whether it was Within the realms of personal use or not Then you could apply to get it back. It is complex. It can be costly So it is a little bit difficult It's not something they're openly looking for I won't say hundreds but large numbers of people have known over the years that brought antibiotics back with no problems whatsoever But if you were to get stopped there is going to be an interesting conversation if you've got anything more than 10 vials And And like I said it's unlikely the officer stopping you is going to know So generally what they'll do is confiscate everything and then salt the mess out later on down on that Lane I've even seen seizure cases with the police where the police have taken steroids off someone so they've done a routine traffic stop decided to do a car search found Five or six miles a test and they've taken it and then they've provisionally charged them with intent to supply steroids Oh He then goes through the process to the Crown Prosecutes of the service who decide whether there's a case to answer and it's been decided There is no case to answer Now technically that property should be returned to that individual right but I know a couple of police forces that their few is That they can't return the drugs because that'd be cluster supply now personally I think that's absolutely bullshit and I think they're incredibly wrong with that and I've argued with them and said you're way out of line That's personal property is possession is not illegal Then you're giving them about their personal property is not criminal offense They've argued I know foils in lines with supply which fucking doesn't But you'd need a court case to establish some case law how about if they just like sacked it on the counter And they turned their back I mean and maybe it's not there when they turn around some police forces will say you can have it back But we need a um on order from a court from a judge which means you then have to get a court day To get a judge to go. Yeah, you can have your gear back Which you can entertain to the police so yeah, it's rare it's return It does happen but it all depends on the individual police force on the officers involved all right We got a bunch of them how about this one? It says from Koa Monster He says uh wood taking IGF LR3 before bed be dangerous I heard it can make you go hypos if so When should you take it for max growth? I've always used it around training I'd never used I wouldn't I don't know why you would want to take it before bed There is an insulin like affect to it IGF insulin like growth factor and I have seen my blood sugar go down I do think that there is an insulin like effect for storage to meaning that Using it pre-workout you generally do get better pumps Yeah, I don't think it's particularly effective But it would depend on you know where you're going to bed with a meal on board where you're going to bed in what Bewigadas are set me fast as stay etc etc what you're in takes being for the day Lots of things would play into it. Yeah, but it does it does seem I'm assuming what they're considering is that I've had can raise IGF on levels during the night I'm literally gonna grow while I sleep You're not gonna push IGF levels up anywhere near high enough to create unsupport a growth From it so that ain't gonna happen so I would stick to it as Feel good factor for a training yeah, yeah, I remember and I think there's a lot of variation in IGF LR3 The first time I had ever used it it was not Nearly as available as it is now and Dave I had the most interesting reaction Within like three or four days of starting it all the pores in my face just shrink and disappeared Like my skin changed it was weird man like you could not see a single pore in my face and then it last Until about like six weeks after it was over I had like this crazy glow and that was this one run one Billogram of IGF and I never had that experience again We'll get your files from other companies. I've got this image you may have now right of you to a yellow jaw and your face couldn't That's the green right all my lemon yeah I just can't get out yet now All right, we'll see if we can do in post production with that Uh How long can you safely run anavar at 20 milligrams a day with T or T how long were a break would you need before running it again Running it for extremely high SHBG a tried providing in the past but it didn't touch it Okay Probably longer than we think in reality Your labs right yeah, I mean I would have said I Wouldn't be what he'd about sort of 10 to 12 weeks if you've got a test base because my main concern around anavar is low each engine rather than the liver stressin But you'd need to keep an eye on your liver and just see how your body's coping with it I know also how it's affecting stomach There's an issue around there as well But yeah, I mean it's probably longer than we think to be fair You would think he's obviously lipids you're gonna have to keep an eye on lipids as well because it's gonna promote LDL It's gonna lower HDL yeah, so as an order it's quite an nasty one for lipids, but 10 20 milligrams dose and he's not super high either Yeah, so Yes, it's funny. I wonder if you could get away with even less for SHBG alone like what did he's only looking at SHBG? He may find that once he's initially dose he can bring it down a bit yeah I wonder too has he tried boron? I mean just looking for something and I'm not saying don't use anavar. I'm just saying that if you're looking for a long-term solution that you can do Year-round I wonder if boron would be of benefit Or a rum of test yeah, okay my test that'll help yeah, yeah 12 milligrams of boron that's a red start and I'd be curious five milligrams of anavar that does work It usually comes in six Here it does at least that's what that the ones I've gotten are around that so or the or three I've seen oh I was always gonna say 10 normal but just slightly about like 10 15, but yeah, I just wanted to waste it to Yeah, um I try that first and if you did the end of our I'd see what you could do like try it for a month at 10 right And then get your labs done see what's happening. Are you getting improvement yet? You know something like that and then another month and then labs and another month him watch your HGL just crumble before your eyes Before we have to stop Yeah, I mean you are out because it becomes just about HDL management Not that I think you can offset it massively but it will it will help a little bit Oh, let's see here Oh, I'm jealous I had a coffee every before we started though, so I'm good American coffee Last week America's renowned for growing good coffee trees Our coffee's not nearly as good as yours. I will give you that Wait right now for growing good coffee trees as well How did you get the lump down from your friends trend last week? I mentioned I took a shot of Somebody else's trend right before the show left me a big old fat lump on my glue I didn't that was the spoiler alert. You once you get that lump You're not going to be able to completely get it down Time is the number one thing. I mean you can use a hot compress getting a little bit of like in a glue You could do some like cardio to help get some blood flow in there Also N-Seds might be beneficial but I mean if you take a bad shot on on a Wednesday before the show It's just going to keep swelling right up till Saturday. It's going to be hard to control and I don't know about taking a bunch of N-Seds while you're loading everything else into a contest, you know So tomorrow the story showed needs to not cover it that I neighbors trend Yeah, that's the truth man lesson learned Question for the next show what are the best health supplements? What health supplements you guys suggest will On cycle Oh, that's them they misspelled that word he meant while on cycle No, whilst is a word It's pronounced well, it's pronounced well Wilds there is pronounced whilst you are on cycle is English is correct You're just an American and don't know how to speak proper languages I you guys say I don't think that's right you tell us come in below Oh, well, right you're talk We've got ever growing forward I Man, the little right I would look at some sort of HDL support I would look at probably around the ground my life is so more vitamin C as an antioxidant I would probably look Some sort of fish oil personally up for crale juts the improved bio availability but you know It's not the end of the world such as burger mart And then you start getting into more specifics, you know Are you wanting to support your your liver because you may be on an oral or have an oral and the cycle so you look at some of my TDCA You could also look at knack specific says in like what your body needs personally Yes, but also specific simulation to what your cycle is that's what I'm saying like your individual situation So you know, I mean if you're using all rules you're gonna be more leaning towards some liver support A straddogist We look at the fire on both good for kidney support depending if we have concerns around there So a lot of it depends on on your compound choices, but I think as a base level You need to manage Blood thickness you can do that fruit supplementation or you can do that fruit look letting you need to also cardio to an extent You need to manage lipid adulforation You need to manage blood pressure now that might be through a supplement that might be through cardio that might be through a medication and Note that one difference between actually Specified a medication rather than a supplementation yeah, um So and then really beyond that it's more specific effects for you um Yeah, and a body exam really gonna trigger anything else specifically, but you might find a reduction in vet D That's always useful to support when you're on cycle yeah Creatinines sort of creating creatines also always gonna be a useful addition when you're on cycle How about uh Product what's bullmarks Max, so the most is a nice old round of Coins on 10 is another nice addition for health yeah, Tanya is with us she mentioned that I'm a fan of ubiquitous all You know more bio-available version and I I started that a few years ago I ran it up to a high dose because it also helps with breathing I managed to get up to 600 milligrams per day which is an expensive supplement so I mean it was like $60 a month at that price for good quality you bigger because I could tell the difference if I got cheap stuff It didn't give me the best seen breathing effect. I think this is funny you mentioned that because I think this is an issue I had this conversation with our last couple of days ago There's lots of supplements that have products in that have shown to improve x-y said Yeah, but there's lots of supplements in products in that have from jf weather But aren't an effective dose And when you start learning effective dosing of these supplements it can get very expensive very quickly yeah So You know it's very easy to get lost in the world of supplements and end up with a shopping list of products And an extremely high bill every month that May not be giving you the benefit you think it is just simply because you don't need it a hundred percent of Green man I can't count how many times somebody's come to work with me and they are literally on a list of 15 supplements Just because you know, they're like we've got milk fissile and AC glue to thion It's like all those things and and then yeah, there's nothing wrong with you know Lifer support right I like I'm all for that, but if you don't need it Yeah, if you don't need it at this time is it absolutely necessary to be spending that additional $100 a month and you know three or four different products Not send it a couple of miles a test for God sake. I mean come on Yeah, I could be running a grand more hey speaking of which so last week we had that question and this is an example of somebody who didn't know milligrams or milliliters Patriot guy asked us 20 milligrams of anovar a day with two grams of test So he got back to me and he was like oh I meant and so he still got it wrong bless his heart. He said I meant two milligrams Meaning one milligrams twice a week so that he made two mil yeah, yeah He meant two milliliters So he was gonna take 400 tests which I feel a lot more confident with now That yeah, that was that was that was it. You know he's like yeah I think the analogy I use the time was as like having the big amount meal in it with a diet coke situation It's yeah, that makes a lot more sense All right Hi guys love for the show and been watching for a long time lots of interesting info I have a question for the next show hopefully How it does HG let's how much does exogenous HGH shut down natural production and when you stop are there any negatives or Natural production afterwards in your opinion I'm not aware of any long-term suppressive factors Yeah, I mean the regular system is the simplest this HCH goes up your body stops producing it's the simplest that yeah But it does seem to be quite instantaneous As soon as the HCH drops your body starts to kick you back in This is one of the reasons why a lot of people are adopted and every other day protocol or a break protocol in HCH Use so that you force your natural system to do something There was a time when people were doing HCH one day and then secretos the next day Was this agree to dogs or have you there you go you did fuck it Why do you want to say it GH stimulating products that are getting increased your natural production for the second day and then back to the GH for the third day Yeah, so you know there's been all sorts of protocols developed over the years around the fact that it is suppressive but I have no knowledge of any one permanently stopping natural GH production from the use of GH at all yes The thyroid is another thing that's quite robust but I have seen some very rare cases of people having permanent thyroid suppression But I would suspect that that's due to an underlying sensitivity issue Genetic problem rather than the actual use of thyroid medicine cells Yeah, all right. I've got one here I wanted to make sure we got on we missed it last week. He said Scott the following comment on the last episode got 17 likes That's how popular it was and I thought I would bring it up again Like promised okay, he says high Scott on a recent episode with Dave you guys said one milligrams of aromatex purchased over the counter. I don't know what he means by that daily is too much for 600 milligrams of test and a thousand IU of Hcg if someone aromatexes that much on day kind of moderate dose doesn't mean that they can build muscle more efficiently Needless to say test to get to optimize Astridile my point is whether someone who aromatexes so crazy Can get away with 400 milligrams of test while others need a thousand milligrams of test to have the same aromatex your biggest fan on YouTube Thanks for sharing your knowledge. I'm a little bit confused. I may be assuming incorrectly here We know that estrogen plays are all in growth and health and support and everything else. We know it needs to be managed not obliterated But we know obviously as it goes higher create starts a great negative impacts If someone's a higher aromatex are they after them work harder to control that estrogen be that fruit drug selection I picking less aromatex in compounds and going more down to HD roots or compounds aromatex That less array like say something like Dekka or they run higher levels of AIs Higher level of AIs are obviously gonna have some negative impacts and it's a trade off between that and the negative impacts of higher higher estrogen These asking is someone who's a higher aromatex are gonna grow better On lower doses because they hire a higher aromatex are not necessarily no I would say if someone has a high tolerance of elevated estrogen They're probably gonna be prone to better progress Yeah, not just the fact because basically if you're a fatful like me you could use very high levels of estrogen That isn't necessarily gonna promote my growth now the caveat that is for me I have a very high toleration of estrogen So I do believe that has been instrumental in me being able to get as big as I got But the fact that I aromatize Not so much the fact that I tolerate yes and I've got those clients that have estrogen problems Just on T.R.T because they carry high levels of body fat and as a result they can fit a high rate So I don't think a high conversion is beneficial to growth But I do think a high tolerance is beneficial to growth Okay, yeah, I'm with you. I don't think that The high conversion has anything to do with in a positive way with you know In fact, you know what Dave I would say if for a guy like that because if you remember it was a few weeks ago We had a guy who said like you know 600 tests and I'm taking a 1mg of aromatex every day You know to control it. I think that he might be in a much better position to use a compound like the famous Test in Primo together, you know what I mean because that's just a lot of AI to be pounding I would think even a lower test with another compound that isn't going to aromatize could be a good move Or even not aromatize at that right yeah, he cute might be good for him Yeah, but then she got from because we got 20% conversion Yeah, you know and then obviously you go into your DHT as well. So there's definitely a big scope there, but yeah, I think there comes a point Where it's like come on now, you know This just isn't working try a different route you you you're creating more work than a needs to be when there are alternatives and and that's the thing it's It's picking the right tool to suit your circumstances in your individuality and You know there's a list of drugs that we might look at and go well there optimal for where I want to achieve But they're going to get knocked off depending on your own personal tolerances and it might be that you end up going for a less optimal route on paper But it's more optimal for you because of your unique responses to the drugs I'm so someone aromatizing at that level is quite unique, you know, it's not not an everyday occurrence Why hello I wanted to do something different with my turn nutrition advertising it for today And here's the thing I just got our order in Victorian I we pay for all the protein that we get they don't send us anything for free and that's because I've believed in turn nutrition for 15 years now I've been using them ever since I contest proud they have some of the cleanest best quality protein A lot of times I use the team skip but here's the deal. I'm going back to the pure way isolate The pure way isolate it just just processes so fast this is my favorite flavor chocolate peanut butter cup But if you want to try just like one pound at a time you can do that just sample it I've never had the cookie butter. So I'm gonna try the cookie butter this week. I got Big old bag a pre protein isolate for the wife. This is what she likes to use and here's the thing They're just about wholesale prices at true nutrition plus they don't add the flavoring when they weigh it So you get like legit one pound of protein and then from there they add the flavor after that So every one pound I think it's like one point two I'm not sure don't quote me on that but hey here's the thing the true nutrition is a great quality protein They believe it us they Amortize with us because I literally ask them to and if you use our code think you'll get some additional savings plus of course That's like voting for our podcast. So thank you guys. I hope you enjoyed my my impromptu ad goodbye All right since testosterone promotes health healing and recovery Would it be logical that a higher level of testosterone Reduce his recovery time and wound healing time if this is so Then a person on TRT at 150 milligrams should see significant healing muscle repair and recovery time at 300 milligrams as compared to the level he would have gotten at 150 So a total level of 2000 test level should be better for recovery than a level of 900 Is this significant enough to warrant a short blast after an injury or surgery? What are your thoughts? We've kind of talked about this before you know overall first of all it's not linear in the same way that Grove from drug dosenies not linear There's even been research showing that there is an open limit Where drug dosenies starts to tough out so that's definitely not the case So if you go from 250 to 500 milligrams You're not gonna get the same increase in progress going from 500 to a thousand or a thousand to 2000 as you start to jump significantly higher increases You're not getting significantly higher growth So that's one As you increase those you increase stress factors So that's two and three it also depends on the injury you're looking to recover from So Certain soft tissue there may be some benefit but it's not gonna be that dramatically increased There is a point where Drug dosing is a medication and then there is a point where it becomes cow a productive and that is a linear scale of dose Um, they all say another difference between a meditation and a poison is dose is very very true and it falls into this very definitely Having a good healthy test level or maybe slightly above healthy test level is gonna promote recovery in Grove. Yes From injury to a point but the mechanisms aren't quite the same you're not Retary muscle tissue in the quite the same way But going beyond that is not gonna want anything to recover rate though there are certain compounds on a Barbie one of them There are gonna add significant amount to recovery But are gonna present a lot of secondary health risks Yeah, and of our Nandrolone Equipoise was it be the three I would look at for increased collagen synthesis Now if he had a issue with bone I would look at growth hormone growth hormone is amazing and Recurring bone what's that? I'm Dekka That is good for bones No, you're leaving for osteoporosis when I'm okay. Yeah, a lot of it Leather gear has been hasn't it? I don't think they called it gear in that scenario though doctors weren't like here Lady I've got some gear for you to take the takes your osteoporosis It definitely isn't double the dose double the effect In ensuring before and that's across the border antibiotics and there becomes a point when Therapeutic dosens become caliper-dultive because they're not adding that much to the benefit But they're increasing significantly the negatives Paul Burnett of antibiotic bodybuilding was just done one of the shows recently Talking about his shoulder recovery now I'd always heard that the one thing you do want to watch out for with like trying to Speed up your recovery is that with increased collagen production comes increased scarring and What his doctor suggested was to wait two weeks after the shoulder surgery before he actually started implementing additional recovery Super-subs which makes sense to me because the idea always heard that was a concern was you know thickening of scars Yeah, I mean if you were looking at improved recovery. I'd probably look at slightly above the T.R.T. Dose if you were adding a secondary compound. I don't have been looking at a hundred Maybe to there's been some real interest in Problems with doses of decorative lower 50 milligrams yeah for for injury recovery Then you've got things like drove TB BPC all dependent on the type of the injury as to how they're gonna help. I mean soft tissue G aches he's miraculous for All right, we got another one related. This was in the live stream. Hey guys love the show I have BPC 157 coming from Amino to say that and thanks if you used her code To use on an elbow injury Is it best to inject close to the injury and if so what dosage is recommended? He can go just anywhere I am I put it in my shoulder. I wouldn't try to mess around with getting that in the elbow You know what I mean it's gonna go to stomach once you've taken it So with BPC the half life is incredibly short Yeah, one of the issues Unseen issue I prefer sighting or as close to sight as practical For the simple reason that longer it's in the body and it takes time to get into the bloodstream and then get to the sight The more it will have decayed So I'd prefer to go as close to sight as possible Therefore getting the maximum concentration but if you inject it in your arse is it not gonna work? No, it will still work. It's just not gonna get the same level of concentration at the sight of the injury That's it that's the only reason personally I go around for into my confirms twice a day Some people will argue 500 you can take more But I think for indonesaw the minimum and the dosage you want to be yeah If you want to take more this it's budget really orientated then But yeah, I mean I do twice a day shot as close to sight as possible But it is only because of that half life and getting it into the system and getting it to the sight reason no other reason Yeah, I go 500 twice a day Maybe even a little bit higher at first to get that inflammation down quickly and then all back it off when I've used it And I found that it is more beneficial for I would say like smaller areas like in elbow or a shoulder versus like your SI goes out I feel like it's not as effective with like you know it like larger injuries I think it works well with large inflammation Because it eats more tendon ligament integrity and reducing formation in those areas they are relatively small injury points Yeah, what I think when you've got a big large massive information is not the compound to go for a personally Yeah, I found very little difference when I had had like low back problems, you know and I tried taking it It's hard to say you know, I'm sure it did something but it didn't have that almost instantaneous Information effects that I saw with like You know a painful elbow which I would feel relief within hours after using hey that said And I do have a video I need to get out with Dr. Marv about tennis elbow You can take BPC all day long and if you don't change the thing that caused it You know what I mean and it's generally a repetitive use issue you're gonna keep having that same issue so yeah That is one of the you need to address the offended behavior if it is an offended behavior problem All right, we'll try to rip through the last couple here. Oh David Vader Crossland Dave I got to tell you something man. I Listen, so you can't win all right you you've sat far away from them like sometimes you're way back here And I can't hear you and then I said so Dave could close your mic and then last episode You saw no like this So I we had a few comments people were like why is that dude breathing so heavy? I'm sorry Dave. I'll take the blame on this one. So more Quick question I found the best combination is G H insulin T3 in test it's good combo not gonna lie I agree with you. I work a lot So it's tough to monitor Quick acting insulin and get proper macros in post workout in the past I have and I got crazy muscle games So now I'm running five I U GH 25 to 53 a thousand test and 10 to 15 I U of Lantest I used to hear here the horror stories of becoming diabetic but never saw it myself Have you guys ever heard of anyone having an issue with this? Well with insulin resistance from dead from insulin use you got to bring in a little bit your weight Not that but not that close Dave middle ground middle ground okay middle ground Dave Yeah Issues with Using insulin is insulin going to make you a diabetic like us as the question I've never I can't say I've never seen someone go create type two diabetes which the use I have But it was very abusive use I have seen plenty of people Core short-term insulin resistance when they've gone like super high dosing And I've seen lots of people when they've done the sort of malice protocols you know 80 120 IU a day off season when it comes to diet and it's been incredibly difficult for them to get lean Yeah Because they have bills of resistance If Are those people going to develop type two later on in life because of issues they've created now I don't know possibly we'll see when they're not time comes but I haven't seen anyone have issues around true type two diabetes From just sort of half sensible insulin use now I'd be more concerned about creating an issue with high dose growth over a long haul Like if it's interesting yeah, I think I think I think that's what is I You've far more long term than x5 years, you know yeah I mean I have my HP once he's not great Is that due to the high growth and high insulin use or is that just grew grew due to the fact that I've rammed so much fruit down my Fro over the years and I continue to carry very high levels of body fat I think it's probably the latter Yeah, if we're honest, you know What about this last question here in the stream can't a 54 year old woman booster testosterone naturally it was diet and Supplements to an extent it would depend one on how far off healthy your current diet is Supplement wise I would definitely be considered in DHA 25 milligrams to 50 milligrams a day I've seen that be very very effective with 50 plus females look into increased their test levels because it's Sort of menopause low Ballon can sometimes help as well, but yeah DHA definitely definitely has a good impact on females wanting to increase their test naturally Yeah, I think that if you're getting into it depends on the individual to right you know And what was your history have you used pharmaceutical birth control for the last you know for the 25 year for half of your life There's girls who were putting birth control from the time they were 13, you know They run that up until they're 40 and you know then It that's kind of like hey, let's put you on testosterone replacement at 15 You know, that's gonna have an impact on your hormones down the road It might be hard for you to recover to that and you know worst case scenario Maybe there is some medical need there to you know have first maybe start with Astrogen progesterone and then testosterone if needed, you know Yeah, I mean when testosterone in a female so 25% is made by the adrenal gland 50% comes from Seashoot conversion so that's where estrogen all over hormones go into tissue and it's converted testosterone and 25% is done in the ovaries Obviously Why the DHEA works is because it's a precursor to adrenal produced testosterone And your adrenal gland is actually capable of producing sort of three four five and more of test Where a female's up a limit is 1.6 So you know you can Generally adequately producing of test through the adrenal function in a female If you stimulate it with the H.A. but it doesn't always work but it is definitely an option if you're got to the point where I'm not recovering through diet and regular supplementation and I don't want to commit to a gel or something of that nature Which is the common route that they'll put females on for testosterone Obviously there is a big trend within our industry for fem tests, but that's not something that's available for the average user through you know a prescription route. Yeah All right Dave, do you have any shout outs? You know I do Right so I'm on because I need to read how it would Dave is with us. Oh, it would Dave is with us. Yes God right so all speed customs dot com okay. Who is this? Gaggle Brian Motones it so some of you may be aware of my engine I'm going to go to the site too. I'm going to take this out and and my desire for approach, Ajay So Brian Motones and the team at all speed have been helping me One with choices as in what's going to be suitable for for my build Yeah, and what's going to be suitable to future proof my build and also with acquiring said parts when the time is right but obviously I can't acquire said parts because you type gets 7 point of money in the pot. Oh look at that one Dave. Oh don't hide a headlight on that I like that car That's cool. I like rest of it just on a headlight still. He's like for that new there were new There were like I know they just look all glad the barracuda is nice Which one is the barracuda? The silver one next to where you were. Oh, I see it. That one that's nice Oh That's wild. It's got the same kind of headlights in it. Yeah, but he's suit that they don't suit Over what what's this one you ever seen a road runner before? Our friend of mine has a 69 hammer yard to your road room This thing is worth a full june looking this thing is crazy looking Dave They have big engines in them too. Don't they look at 454 or something Yeah, come do Wow, look at the door panels look at that Yeah, I say did do really good work. I've been I had a quick flick through when I was very impressed. I like it Very impressed and they've been really helpful from the point of view of helping me decide so massive shout out to them What are you gonna do So I'm gonna say the wrong coding, but I'm gonna go with the d1x Pro charger which is slightly above the previous one Run a slightly smaller larger polish at the same start with two offset the fact that it's a more powerful Pro charger because I don't want to be really huge amounts of boost It's gonna be the Stage two in a cooler Dump valve Balancer and then at a later date I will upgrade the transmission I think I can get away I might have to I've got a 444 444 transfer case I think I have to go to a 444 455 Because I'm not doing Hard launches in four wheel drive or anything like that. I generally drive into wheel drive I'll only use four wheel drive to genuinely get through bad weather Yeah, I should better run a fairly stop from end, but I will need to be for the back end up Okay Well, if I'm project when do you project to like all this stuff to be done like having the pro charger installed and all Engine should be back in by Friday of this week Exhaust and tune should be done by the end of next week Pro charge should be in by the end of the year within your fuel system. Okay, and then I'm probably gonna be in of a 12 months before I do anything more But you'll build a like drive it around before that right? Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'll be driving in between But yeah, he said that he's just a case to say you know You know, you know, still I can afford the next bit and saving up to like a 4-2 next bit. It's cool. It's a fun to have projects, you know It is each and it's it's nice to be able to want to be able to Plum Yes, sorry some you are right four four years the Vop on mower It's nice to be able to plum I had so I don't do some things stupid now That then makes it hard work way down the line All right, yeah, let me sense I think you got me yeah You got any wisdom Uncle Dave's wisdom for us today. Yeah, I just keep swimming Something about green tea About green tea. I like green tea green tea. Green tea is very nice. Yeah, it's good. It's good for you You know that you're the end coffee too. I bet you know, if you're drinking a lot of it Keep it to you Keep it to us coffee keep your caffeine down a little bit get some EG CG some antioxidants from that green tea I Am most of all kind of fact that you've been disrespectful to caffeine. Oh, no, I like caffeine. Believe me. I like coffee too. I drink some coffee today It's good I'm all for coffee But if you're gonna drink a big pot of it all day long and you have blood pressure Dave you might be better off Green tea You might be better off Did you see that cartoon or that animated clip? I saw a little bit Why does my touch keep coming and going you hit your head like this? Why do I know be it? I don't know. I don't know. Why do I have an orange round nose? I don't know But they got my shirt right. I was wearing Alex's Smyth shirt from the gym. They w they nailed that. Did you notice on your arm? There was a blood drop tattoo it looked just like the evil blood drop No, I didn't that's good. It just showed one tattoo and it was like a big blood drop on your arm The AI's mental Marketing company sent me a Video and this is just been done off a still picture Okay, and it's created a real life looking video of these people dancing Oh, oh, yeah, photograph deep things but it deep fix It's it's mad the second one looks in a little bit ropy the portions are quite but the others What have a clue that that was just a still photograph that's been created dude into move think this is just the beginning You know what I mean like where's that technology going to be a decade from now? You're not going to be able to believe anything you see They're going to put up you know here's here's this famous celebrity doing this elicit act You know what I mean it like they're going to do all sorts of stuff like that and you're not going to be able to tell what's real and what's not Well in in lieu of any David vice. I was talking to mine for about this So there's apparently it's been a bit of a hoo-haary Hollywood Because actors are really concerned because when you do a lot of films now they do a lot of blue screen We're they do a lot of digital mapping right But that means that the film companies have Digital records of the actors both on how they look and how they move and their voices and they can actually Recreate them yeah Which means they don't need the actor yeah Martin. We don't need you for this one, but you're going to be Yes, so the big argument is being how actors remain in control of their image and get royalties If the digitized version of them is used a future day Yeah, and that's been quite a quite a big argument I can't blame you man imagine if you saw like a feature length movie with your face It's you doing it, but you never did it, you know Exactly Because they can just make you do whatever they want It's incredible how they're he's scary as well because like you say you just can't You can't trust your eyes anymore Yeah, because you just don't know what you're looking at is whether it's real or it's computer generates Yeah, that's wild man. It is the times we're living in guys we appreciate you tuning in and and if you got this far And you haven't hit the like button then do us that favor It doesn't cost you anything please hit the like button because it really does help our programming helps us to get out more people will see us if you leave us a liking if you leave us a comment that helps immensely it tells what you think about the show this week and Of course go to e-velleblood analysis.com to get your labs done by Dave Of course check out tree nutrition.com user code think over their supplement source.ca for Canadians go to Strom Sports dot com to go to Strom Sports nutrition get some good health supplements over there if you're in the UK and Patreon thank you guys over there Dave Do you have any pillars of strength or anything coming up? I'm gonna pay the course pending but I'd to be quiet honest. I just don't have enough people for it So there's no point starting So I'm okay just trying to get some more numbers for the pads course Over the end of that and just use your ship up but you and the usual stuff Nice yeah guys sign up for the pads course get in with Dave get to hang out with him do some stuff Learn some stuff about gear

and it was a sitting in my car and like you know the guys locking up like you know like I was the last guy to the gym like he's watching I'm watching it. I'm watching it. I'm watching it. I'm watching it. I'm watching it. Yeah, and I remember sitting there with like this massive shoulder pump like massive and it was like minus 30 out like yeah, freezing like brutal Canadian cold out and I remember thinking nobody's gonna beat me It's not possible like I had a screwed up day and I had solved every problem immediately and just moved on No hesitation drop drop drop drop like oh, okay gone move like there's there's one goal nothing else matters everything else is just Details it can sort out later Remember everybody to drop your questions in the comment section below right here and then we'll make sure we get to him as soon as possible Everybody welcome to it's just body building course myself big wrong parlobe dusty handsha Scott McNally We're happy to be here guys remember to like share subscribe comment and And You see what I've done with all the bell ringing here is I'm strategically teaching dusty to become a drummer slowly Without him really go back and it right today Yeah, I'm going to admit a vault it into two bells. He has to hit two bells or something. I'll take it. That's to be three can never be two remember Right Yeah, I'd numbers okay Got the milk the mutant built tough shirt on like that, you know kind of like the you know built for tough kind of rip for it off That was funny. Good Remember to go on I am mutant calm and you can get all your sub to get your ISO you can get your pre workout the all in you can get the gear get on the gear Not gear Either gear. I'm drinking ice tea gear right now That's my thing Remember dusty 20 or big wrong 20 those are the two codes you can use and Scott gets completely left out of this one. How else are it? That's alright. However, there's a think big body building network patreon that you should go to and for the price of a cup of coffee isn't that what they say something for the price of a cup of coffee You can be a podcast homeless You can get a podcast You should have a girlfriend Do the voice of a friend No And I just feel it Perfect Perfect So hungry guys Yeah, get pictures of Scott died and right down like shredded just use like a zitherman on his face Yeah, that's the face Let me see the face Yeah, that's all Man Okay Um, yes, so that's all the what I call the administrative bullet It's good that we have to We've got our last show demonetized ranch I'll make a note. I'll let it that one It's ready to really get more out to the I have no idea why they would demonetize us for so minor You know what it is is that we can go for a long stretch and you're really good and then it's one I think they're like well, he did like seven and a row so it's a little rough there It seems like they're fully automatic Yeah, that's it That's it Right The shot If you hold the trigger down Yeah, spray the F-poms You get a specialised Yeah, the ATF gets involved What if I jump in and say that you have Tourette's then they Oh They can I'm a victim I'm a victim Exactly You're being held back by the man I'm a marginalized group that is being judged unfairly through the scope of Abel-verbed people who don't want to be somewhere Tate Yeah Hey crime Okay, hey crime Hey crime What are we starting with today? Oh, yeah, we had a lot of good questions and we had the edico and interview which was awesome But we were gonna talk about something we get asked a lot about Do you have the genetics to be a pro bodybuilder? And how do you know that and when did you know that? That's sort of thing Dusty and I get that question a lot You've heard that question a ton over the years with all your podcasting Oh yeah, what do you guys think? It's a question you can't help but ask yourself if you get involved in bodybuilding You know what I mean? Yeah So, I've started feeling like a politician before we've been started Because my first issue with the question is If you love bodybuilding you will find out by chasing bodybuilding By just going for it This question does not bother me. It only bothers me when I feel like the questions being asked So they can decide if they want to get started Hmm In the church Yeah, I mean, yeah Yeah That's a hang up for me like you got to go after this and go all in And then watch your body evolve and kind of see where you're at Because that's the issue I have is a very regular thing where they're like Oh, that before we get started I actually put an ounce of effort into this Can you make sure and let me know that I'm going to be financially set through bodybuilding Because my physical is so good right Yeah, and when you when you bring that up dusty it makes me think of how like You know nothing about being a pro ever occurred to me until I was like four years into training Like you know what I mean like You know I didn't like start training to be a bodybuild a pro bodybuilder I just want I just love the process You know I remember thinking like oh you know okay, I'm going to I'm going to do a contest and just see how fun it is You know see how I do you know like I remember thinking like that it wasn't like pro card stuff I know that I know that we sound like grumpy old men to some people when we talk about like the chase and the pro card thing now But we have to cut everybody a little bit of slack Because they're they're constantly being bombarded with talk of turning pro like now just what social media is done to the the bodybuilding generation now It's all about like you know there's so much stuff about chase and pro cards They're just bombarded with it. It's kind of not their fault in a way You know like back when back when I started training like you know there was one pro a year right like one Canadian a year So it wasn't like it was the reason or people train Yes, they a lot right like the gyms are just full of full of a hardcore guys bench and three plates and squat and four plates and some Suston on an alacharuma and all the good stuff get We love and it was just for for the love of the game and the the just the fascination with what they were doing with their body. Yeah I was just I don't know it's just love a bodybuilding. It wasn't just like this crazy pro card chase, you know Yeah, so it's it's it's definitely different how it's worth it now and however when talks about it, but yeah, like dusty said you I mean you got to want to compete anyways like you know, I mean you got to love it I'll tell you what I've seen as a coach I I know how I respond obviously I saw myself dieted I dieted myself. I tried to grow myself long before I ever attempted to help anybody else and Then I could see so they gave me kind of a foundation. I could see like oh this guy It is really struggling. He has a much harder time getting in shape than I do and it takes him a lot more work Or I could see this guy, you know grows muscle a lot more easily than I did. He doesn't need to eat as much food and Damn he's strong and he's one of those guys. It's always been strong and then I meet some people that it's like no matter Once in a while no matter what I do no matter how hard I diet him they didn't go flat No matter what I do in the offseason. I can feed him and feed him and feed him and they don't get overly fat In fact, I'll tell you what as much as like I feel like this program is super motivational for people Who want to get as big as possible But there's been kind of like there that this is a great conversation to have because I've had so many conversations with even people that I work with And I've had to tell him like listen we can't do what Ron was able to do We can't do it. Rusty was able to do like we some people they can't necessarily just keep shoveling food and growing and growing and put on all that weight And then also be able to diet it down. It's like one guy I'm thinking of in particular here There's like a lot of loose skin. He was overweight before and he's somebody that's like he's got to just keep it tight all year round And he can grow but he can't be he can't go from like 240 to 300 and then bring it back down again You know what I mean? And that's a genetic thing I guess I just I've seen how I respond and then once in a while I've met somebody and worked with somebody who's got just amazing genetics and they're just it's a different ball game And that really gave me a lot of perspective on what could genetics are so we have people on the podcast That are like hey, I didn't run I don't run a lot of gear and we get so much feedback from the audience It's like this guy is lying. He's full of it. Well he had to use a lot more than that to grow He might not be a much all of these reasons why that's not true But I've seen it firsthand. I've worked with people firsthand who have turned pro without using trend People have been literally under a gram of gear and they're outmossling people on stage that are taking way way more than that It's so hard to get that through your head. Maybe I wouldn't even believe that have I not had the experience I've had with so many clients You know I I vividly remember when I first started training like 14, 15, 16 years old I remember that jam I can see the room And I can see this one guy that used to train there and his name was Marty and he was there every single day He was like furniture at that gym. He was in there squatting and deadlift and benching and he had the boat next shirt on and he had his sweats rolled up And he he he he were the weight belt and he he trained hard man Marty was always red face beans in his forehead just pulling on stuff loading up the leg press train and really really hard He probably trained too heavy, you know, but his form wasn't terrible. It was just like kind of risky, you know And he just trained like he trained really hard like other people made comments like, oh, yeah, you know if you want to hop in with Marty like you know They would say like the odd thing like that and he was he trained really hard, but the guy had never grew up and he just looked exactly the same all the time He never really gained any significant amount of muscle he kind of he looked like he lifted weights But he did not look like a bodybuilder at all. He didn't have any genetic predisposition to have like the packs or anything like that And I just remember thinking like This doesn't work for everybody Yeah, it was a where at that like as a kid I was aware of that like I'm 15 and I'm looking across a gem and I like man I put an inch on my arms and it and like the first three months I trained You know And this guy like is killing himself like I'm almost bigger in this kind of only been here a year You know, but Yeah And it's I just I just it was I you know, not saying that people nowadays don't see that and notice it, but I just remember my experience of like really seeing Long term like Hard effort just nothing happening, you know, and he was like eaten pound and shakes and like just hardcore But just never grew at all and and it was just you know It was it was a good to see as a kid because you realize you're like, well, hey, there's a spectrum and I don't really know where I am somewhere on it Yeah, but unless I get too cocky You know So I think to really answer the question what you got to What you got to come down to is what does it mean to have the genetics and I think there's the part that people miss like because there's different stages of it like For example, how does your body hold up for years of training? That's part of the genetics just training hard, right? When I'm talking about drugs, how does your body handle gear like how often wrong do you get asked oh man you're very problems with acting you're like no Never what if you took this no this no yeah all these little things were never issues for me You know, oh did you have any bad reactions to this this no anger issues no like all of those things function fine Recovery was fine. I didn't have a slew of injuries and I definitely trained on a line that most people would have broken in half And so I think you got to factor those things in but the easiest way to do that is say A do I love body, brother do I love doing this and kind of get after it for a while because I got serious in 2005 leading in 2006 I did my first like show where I really went for it and after that show I knew I was like I want to do this and I said I want to compete within two years of now and I want to win the whole thing You know and two years later, I won the first overall and I was like okay, I demolished the kid I was two years ago Yeah, what will happen if I compete again another year and a half or so so it was October of 2008 that I competed I competed again in 2010 in June and won the June Nationals What happened in that year and a half was not year and you know eight months was not I think that those are the things you got to factor in But the other thing is during that time and I know Ron you speak the same on this I was a machine like literally body building was my life I didn't miss meals. I wasn't like the perfect diet or I was a big believer in having You know whatever food here and there, but every three hours protein and food was going down my throat And I don't think I ever missed a training day if anything it was the opposite was staying home when you're supposed to but it'll start to show itself because when I told people after my first show I was like you know I think I'm gonna do this for living I don't have that great structure thing people more or less laughed And I don't disagree with them but I went for it and then by the time I won my first overall, you know a third of those people were starting to wonder if it was possible I was still sure it was then in 2010 it was kind of an agreement like okay, this is gonna work So I think the biggest thing is being a realist along the way with how you're improving To really make that decision but unless you're filled Heath you don't walk in I had to have you run quarter turns like oh yeah, you can do this Like you know that there just many I don't think people realize that that will come the 1% body building They don't ask that question so you're not that yeah, yeah, if you have to ask that's a start right there You know and I'm saying if you have to ask then there's it but then also too like you you You may have better genetics than you realize you know because zero delts right naturally And then you start training and they just pop out in nowhere and you can take that you know as far as you can take it I think that the initial point both of you guys made it so important that it's do you have the passion for it because if that is the foundation You know it doesn't necessarily mean that you're gonna make a that's going to become your life But just because you love basketball doesn't mean you can be a pro basketball player either there's that You know, but you can still like take it as far as you can take it and I can speak personally that there have been so many lessons in my life Like I am far from a pro you know I was far from becoming a pro Yeah bodybuilding has been a huge influence in my life personally It's meant a lot to me and I could have never competed against either you guys, you know Well, I think you gotta add in one more thing slightly off topic but not but some of the best bodybuilders I know weren't great competitively And that sounds confusing to people but to me I used to hate the argument what you got to compete if you're a bodybuilder I'm like, are you doing? Like does that mean I'm that runs out of bodybuilding more that I'm not a bodybuilding more Yeah, I mean I you know give me 12 weeks. I'll still beat most people to think that and that's not the goal So you know bodybuilding is living the lifestyle and if you enjoy doing that There are plenty of guys like you said run that live it day in and day out I mean I don't think anyone can deny that the boy the guy your gym was a bodybuilder You know so yeah, yeah, it's um You know like when you say guys that are good at bodybuilding even though they don't compete you know like they They they put the work in and they get the results and if you put it like relative like I've seen some guys man You know relative to the amount of gear they took which is like very very little These are like I've seen guys that had crazy genetics You know like I'm sure Scott's dieted a bunch of guys that just did one show, you know like I remember one guy's like I'm my wife's letting me do one show Yeah, right? It's awesome and I helped him and man his body just like in in four months his body He must have put on 20 pounds of tissue while he got shredded Like it's completely crap one like I think his arms were bigger on stage than they were when he started and his He actually gained weight during the process. Yeah, like his weight hardly moved but he just got and then he his his glutes for Ripple chip shredded like he just did one show for fun. It was like 40 years old and just like everyone was like what the hell did you do to that guy? And I'm like that guy just that guy's just got it It was just same old diet, you know like probably 400 tests with nothing great like you know probably 400 tests a week with like no Anabolics. I don't even know if he took any like orals or anything like an of our anything I was probably barely anything Because he's like oh yeah my wife's like let me do this one show, but like you know Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, you know and like you see somebody and you're just like It's a cool perspective too, you know, you know, I don't like him I think yeah, like the whole thing was just a riot forum like it was kind of easy, you know Like he'd he'd show up to pose at the gym because I saw him every Sunday at the gym and he'd show up He'd be like ah, I had a Mars bar on Wednesday, but I did a little extra cardio No, and then he'd be like oh my god, you're like way better in last week, you know You're just a Mars Mars next week. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't think he stressed a second That's so cool. I think at the end of the day and when we talk about this You know what I really really want for everybody who watches all of our stuff is I just want him to have a good experience with bodybuilding, you know, so that they keep it in their lives And that they can continue doing this long term, you know, really that's to me What if we could and bestow anything upon people, but it it bombs me out when people are disappointed But hey all of us. I don't care how good the the three of us are because I mean my Pigeonetics are gonna be better than some other people's are too, you know We all had our own limitations. They're had to be some point where we all recognize Well, I can't take this further, you know what I mean? So there is that and that no matter what we all We all have to like be okay with that I guess you know what I mean? Otherwise people walk away and they're they're unhappy with the experience they had, you know, and then it's no longer fun I agree Making sure that people have it like I love when I see people do their first show and they're happy Yeah, you know even if they didn't play sat go to whatever there's still like oh man This was awesome, you know, yeah, like that's that's that's great It's also what heartbreaking when you like Okay, I won't name any names, but a buddy of mine come up to me and he's like hey, you know See that girl over there and I was like hey, he's like I helped her this weekend for the Bikini show and I was like oh yeah, and he's like man You should have heard what was did you hear the story and I was like no and he goes off You know, or boyfriend came to me like three weeks out and he's like man like I think there's something wrong with her coach And he like showed him the diet and it was just like you know the nightmare like it was like 700 calories and You know like just you know two hours cardio just like all this stereotypical stuff like that no No one none of us would ever do like right you know dusting with number each 700 calories into two hours of cardio You just never do it And so so He said well that me help her so he like took over her diet and like saved her entire experience Cool and she was like you know that sort of thing like she is I managed was like the worst experience of my life until three weeks ago Yeah, you know and so you know this it's it's it's it's a shame when that type of thing happens. You know what I mean? You know it's really good when someone you know can help them So but making sure can we add how hard core she is for doing that Yeah, right yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, that's the one that I was finding it's when somebody comes to you with that I assure you like okay first off I know you're gonna be fine graping because you're a machine. Yeah Now we're gonna double your cousin in the whole cardio you're gonna lean air. Oh, girl. They're very dirty All right, we had a couple other We had a couple of their topics. We had a bunch actually, but what do you guys think because there was two of them? One of them was Do you prefer to train in a full gym or completely alone? Myness training partner and the other one was what have what is something that you had to sacrifice in your life To get what you have today. We can take either of those which one do you guys want to do? Be alright Okay, I'm fine with that and Ron your starting because I chose B Oh I don't know these conversations are weird because like there's like so you know I'm working on like trying to you know do a bunch of things so I don't feel like I feel like this is type of Question you you talk about when you're done Feel like I'm done yet, so but we can't talk about this in my brain buddy. We gotta do it now I I just I just always Lived my life where I didn't buy something if I couldn't afford it And I've never really cared about stuff like yeah, I got like some nice guitars now But like this is recent like I'm 47 years old. I should have some nice stuff No, I wasn't 25 I didn't have 20 you know 20 grand worth of guitar gear in a fancy bike in a room When I was 25 and then not own a condo Yeah, like right that's I never did any of that I played a cheap guitar for the first like year Several years like First ten years I played a 200-dollar guitar you know and you know save my money and Invested money and put money and mutual funds and like all the basic you know stuff even when I was like 21 22 23 I was always saving money and just didn't spend stuff like couldn't afford it and I drove a box car Like for a long time I did No, no, but I did that like I like you know I drove a $600 car for like two years I drove of the $3000 car for like five years You know and then I finally got like a you know a grand Cherokee, but I drove I put 300,000 kilometers on it drove it into the ground You know so like I just I wasn't a spender and I feel like you know I'm I'm happy with where I'm at and I think that that had a lot to do with it You know I know dusty you know Rolled a lot of cigars with hundred dollar bills, but he's also saved his money How about you Scott yeah, I love hearing your perspective. It's always very different and I I can relate to everything Ron is saying because I was thinking about that with like my gun stuff that I have like if I were to go back and I would have think about some of the younger people that I talked to and they've got like that one rifle You know and that was like the one thing they could afford and I've got a few you know and I feel like that to me I feel really grateful that I'm in a position now where and like you said man it's like I should be able to buy stuff that I like Nowadays, you know at the same time I want to try to be careful with that, but What did I have to to give up you know what I had to give up my Irresponsibility was a big one like that was really kind of a a key To a lot of like irresponsible ability and selfishness really like the two things that I think really held me back and That helped me to grow up and even after I made that decision it still took it's still taking me like 15 years To act like you know what I mean like I made a decision and I knew like from this point forward It was like getting clean to that was a big part of it. I knew from this point forward It's gonna build and now I feel like 15 years Later I'm finally seeing like the work that I started back then, you know Right, it's it's there patients is such an important part of all of it too You know being Patient but having you know outline goals and I remember to stop people spending too much around me and it was like I just was like oh, it's not gonna go well Yeah, yeah, I remember Celebrating like five years clean and at that time So you know I had my whole other life in it was on a different life path with photography and art and then I got clean and then when I got clean I was like what am I gonna do now and so I just like I took a job and just like worked within the system And it wasn't me, but it was like I'm just doing what I had to do and I'm like figure it out how to live And I remember getting like five years cleaner six years clean in my boss who was a guy who was really helpful At the time I used to through college and I worked at a custom picture framing shop and I went back there for a while and I commented on Facebook and made a post on Facebook. Hey, you know I have five years clean today and he said you know, that's really great But what are you gonna do with your life? It's more than just staying clean and it really Erke to me at the time because I understood that But at that time it's like it's been five years. Yeah, but I'm still trying to put the pieces together And I wasn't there. I wasn't there yet, but I knew when I was on my way to where I am today So it irked me at the time though because I was just like you know It was still to me early on in that process. I had a lot to learn still, you know Yeah Yeah, what do you think Scott was like was there any moments? This is my curiosity Where you went Damn like I'm on the right track now like did you did you get an apartment alone and we're like because you know I think we when we're when we're talking and people talk about success or big dreams like I feel like we downgrade those little things like getting your first apartment like a loan or whatever it is to me was a huge deal And now it's like when you as soon as someone gets the apartment they want to tell you about their $3 million house they're gonna get some damn I do I love my lunged edge So you know, was there something where when you were coming back from you know, clean and That was just something like okay, this is a sign of my past Absolutely, but it wasn't monetary It was seeing that I could be a value to other people like my mom was going through some hard stuff at one time And I was able to help her during that or even like Me not falling apart when my dog died which was real that was like the first really hard thing I had to deal with when I was clean And it's not that I wanted to use drugs as a result of that but I Also didn't have the skills to cope with life and when you have really strong emotions So that was a really difficult challenge and to be able to get through those things to me I was like okay yeah, I'm definitely on the right path because I my life didn't fall apart as a result of that traumatic experience Right, that's awesome. Oh, yeah, um Yeah, as far as the giving up thing or sacrifice First I'm gonna take a step back from the question and say I didn't do this well in the beginning I was like to point that out because anytime you listen to people like Ron really was Smart and conservative with money and those things from a young age I wasn't like the moment I was making money. I was like I need a seven series And I back one really and you know, yeah, oh, yeah, yeah, and And the thing is and I've talked with this on the show before I did not understand that there was a difference between Being able to pay for something and be able to afford it. Okay, so I learned that down the line But what I would say is Look at life to see me look at bodybuilding You would say to yourself. Okay. I want to win You know the Vancouver Pro Am amateur division In 2024 Okay, and you would work backwards from the show what needs to happen between that date and today to make that happen And you line everything up and you follow the path and if you follow the path and we've granted someone can beat you But you're gonna have your best shot to get there I feel like in life what we do is we say okay, I want to retire at this age I want to have a house that's this. I want to have a lake house And then we just randomly throw in that we're gonna buy a couple seven series as if that's not gonna slow down that process To get to that finish line or even make it impossible Yeah, you know, so I think that that was the big thing I learned was Once I eliminated those things I also had the freedom To make decisions that weren't just monetary You know when I signed with mutant they did not give me the best offer financially that I got that day But I knew it was the right fit so I didn't need to go to money You know what I mean and that has long since paid off So those kind of things are great and then the biggest thing that I would add is Along the way make it sure that you take those moments to notice your little winds Because like I said I do remember the first apartment and how awesome it was during the process And that was rather than being like a quick okay, I can't reach you the next thing Yeah, it was like all right, I'm I'm on a roll now. I can do this You know you get your first place you furnish it like a big boy and you don't have any Puzzles on your wall you like there we go All right, like it's embarrassing for mom to come over Yeah, so you know Depending on the stringing along yeah, well if they're good post or mom come on now But you know, I think each and a long with is the key because just like bodybuilding We all want it immediately and that's why Guys take too many drugs in the start and that's why Guys start making a little bit of money in drug seven series like a moron like That's that's not gonna get you to where you want to get long term. Yeah Yeah, all right, so we had that other question and it was Do you prefer to train in a full gym and we also have some lists or questions too or completely alone Minus a training partner I I always loved a You know moderately busy gym I I just I I'm a you know I've had some amazing workouts in an empty gym. I mean, you know We still go to Braiden's house once in a while and smash in his garage you know what I mean? And it's like super fine cranked in music the workouts are always awesome But I I sort of you know that's I I guess I'm kind of a recluse most to the day like I spend I've always spent a lot of my day alone You know what I mean like I've always done that I've always spent the great deal in my day alone So going to the gym is kind of like I guess even if I don't even talk to anybody when I train which is you know how it usually goes It's still kind of my social time in a weird like subconscious like psychological way like I was around people today Yeah, tell me I'm a hermit You know I was in a big room full of people. I'm perfectly social Yeah, with my headphones You know I'm social Yeah, but I was like the energy of the gym like I you know I I still think of that first gym that I started in you know it wasn't like It wasn't meant to be a hardcore gym It just sort of became one because that was the crew there at five o'clock every night after school It was just kind of like About there was some football kids in there. There were some old power lifters There was some local body builders that were actually pretty good You know they're playing you know Metallica CDs and stuff so it was like unintentionally kind of a hardcore little gym and people yelling and hollerin and you know Using chalk and you know swearing and dropping F bombs like you know I remember the Management would like they'd send somebody and like he can you guys not swears loud like I remember that type like kind of thing happened when I was a kid You know, yeah, so I guess that's still get back today Yes, I guess it's a YouTube now Yeah, I just I don't know like I you know I always liked the energy of a pretty busy gym You know that's that was always like part of the fun for me was just ever the other energy too, you know Right Scott You know what I enjoy my home gym, but I've been heading up to My friend's gym called Westfit and it's just a small gym, but I've been every time I go there I get a good workout in and I stay more focused so I've been enjoying going up there And training at Mike's gym that's been cool Yeah, yeah, I guess mixing it up is also like part of the novelty like when we go train it and Brains garage or whatever it's like yeah, part of the novelty is that we're like okay. Yeah Ons around it like it just keeps me more focused. I don't know I've been getting away from like I'll have other stuff And I'll be like oh, you know I'll sit down for a minute and then it takes me longer to get back for such if I'm there I just do my three sets or two sets and then I move on, you know do the next day Right, what about where am I going next and I just stay plugged in and it's good. It's been good for me. It's been a nice change. Yeah Right, I'm gonna do a Scott here and and pull an accurately rated oh man and what I mean is You see you know first equally Now what I first started Being in the gym and watching the freaks that I wanted to become was everything like I Figured out when the best body well, those were training and I would go then Because I just wanted to watch what they were doing Feed off of it, you know get get going and I remember two is in time as I started to improve They approached me. I never approached them Like and just kind of let me know things were going well Then when you fast forward to the word I can't say but there was that little break where no one was in the gym for a couple of years I Absolutely loved training and muscle factory alone Yeah, like we would go in there. It was me Tommy and Will and like we didn't turn on the lights on we would just turn the music up We had all the windows covered up and we would train and it was fun because it was so Literally focused on the thing like I think we spoke even less It was just a three of us she'd walking around Just Right then you get started you don't I mean She's grateful to be there oh yeah, and it was just awesome and we had and the thing is that was before muscle factors what it is now I mean like we there were no Rolling like a equipment in there run so like it was like Which grip of barbell Dumbbell or Smith row are we doing today? Yeah, you know I mean which was awesome actually and that was also my Under that I had gotten spoiled living in Scottsdale and like I like out of this gym for quads And I go to this gym for hamstrings and now I'm like don't be up Just train in the gym you're at you're fine figure out right right yeah But now now that I'm old and still not wise but trying Training at the gym that we're at and seeing young kids blast is awesome to me There are a few kids in our gym that just go in and just blast their brains out and have no idea what they're doing But they're working hard. I just see them sweating and I'm like and everyone in the gym is like is grumpy old men They're like irritated all those five kids are all trained together in the way and I'm like Dude that was life back then like I live to get off a school and go to the gym and then as soon as it over Start talking about what we were doing tomorrow like I don't know how we all forgot that Like that was the best time period of my life was just training with the boys and being like You know we're gonna train into a puk okay What are we doing everything yeah like yeah, yeah, there's we're good time so it's fun now in reverse to look And see them because there are the few that you know there's a couple kids in that gym that I didn't know and like you go in the locker one day And they're peeled down and you're like Oh, if you need to ask if you can be a pro the entries guess So yeah, so that is my Scott McNally accurately rated I got a follow up question for you guys so this is a question so we had Nick Walker on blood sweat and gear last week Which she's turned out really good. He's a he's a guy who doesn't have to ask He knows he knows that His guest clothing looked insane by the way. We asked him a question. What are you prefer a gym that has good energy Or gym that has great equipment So kind of a related question here in a way you know, I mean because you could have great equipment and it's empty or Nobody you know that we were like care about you know just the the grammar crew there or right you know basic stuff like like muscle factory was like three different grips But you know Not a lot of people Excuse my I all the energy Answer that question every day. I train right now by the way Because I don't train the best gym in my city Because the owners are douchebags and There's you're not allowed to have good energy in that gym. Oh I hate that care the place we have. Yeah, it was like they don't yeah, they don't they do not want it And they're losing people left and right and they think It's because of the pricing structure and they just cannot see what's happening like People love to go to the gym. I mean Ron, you know this when you were in your like in your prime How many like normal people because you're also a nice guy I would walk up to you like oh I love when I come in and run part those in here training and they're not scared of you They love it it was I I remember tons of times that happened like I remember you know people would bitch about how body builders get treated and then be like I don't get treated like that I mean You Maybe you're doing something that irritates everybody and they don't like for some reason They just don't want to put up with it I remember there'd be times I'd go into like world health back in Mintin. It was like kind of a more fitness club, you know I go train there and I'd like leg press and I'd make some noise and then I'd hack squat and I'd make some noise And then I'd like you know do my extensions and leg curls and I'd say you know talk to the girls at the front desk on the way out and You know chat with the manager and they were all like yeah good good work out in and you know good luck It your show this year and all that stuff and then there'd be other body builders would be like yeah I got in trouble for yelling I don't like well, I don't know. I don't know why I don't get in trouble and you do Maybe there's more to it. Are you yelling on like curling you know warmups or something like maybe there's a context to why I don't get in trouble and you do you know because they bought their body builders would be like how come you don't get in trouble for your leg days And I'm like I don't know if you just make sense Maybe they're like oh yeah You know, you said that you said that you said that Ron and it made me laugh because I'm like I said that's never happened I go oh, yes, it has at the gym I left here Is the only time and it's funny, but So I came to golds and we'll have to bring up in 19th and 2% of subject here, but I came into golds Now I wanted to try it so I just got a day pass walk in and kind of day pass sure 15 bucks got the pass good for two days I trained I trained that day I had another day in the day pass my god. I don't need it. I signed up. They had like a key-off square you sign up So you just do it yourself sign up of the gym Coming in there like two days later. I'm doing dead stop rose And I can feel I don't know who he was the manager the trainer manager whatever he was But a big dude and I felt him behind me as I'm rowing and it wasn't like quiet rose That wasn't church rowing that day and I got done. I put the weight down. It's the same movement I got trouble with at the last gym So I sat up and I just kind of slowly turned And it goes that was awesome. I've been able to see you since you got in here But we're glad you're here. I'm like, oh, that's cool And now that's that I trained with him every Sunday and I would train legs so yeah Oh, that's he's cut from that cloth as well and but it's just funny the difference because I was I was like yeah Come on don't don't do this to me again You know and And that was that but yeah, I think if you if you treat the planes right I'm with you like I'd get ready for shows and like You know my grandmother or someone like her would walk up back But not what the show you're looking great. Yeah. I'm like right right I didn't even know you would know I'm doing this that's fantastic That is really cool. I love that too What what what did Nick say what was his choice? Oh, he said energy. He said energy all day Yeah, they like that gym with good energy and they'll make that work, you know versus yeah great equipment There'd be like a breaking point on the equipment though Yeah, what's gonna be functional you're not saying it's like not Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, we're not about training goals Gold's Venice on the beach with like bars are all bent and rusty right There's two plates here another plate way over there So I got to bring up a separate subject if we if we have a moment do we have time in this episode's kind of we've got time So I got to bring this up I got to bring this up to you Ron Because I think it's fantastic it's on the subject. I just said about getting a day pass So the other day a guy comes into the gym here a Pro apparently of a classic physique pro very good. I don't know his name because I don't give a shit, but Anyways He comes in and says he needs a day pass and Then immediately falls it up with but I don't pay for day passes Because I I'm important and I did the Olympia and I'm not gonna go further into the story because it might get someone in trouble for telling me the whole thing That's quite It's amazing. I have to I have to ask have you guys ever seen that or even known someone with the nerve To think you were so special that you can't pay a $15 fee What's wrong with people? Yeah, it's a strange thing Um Run like this you could tell by the way he's answering right now Runs gotten this before This strange thing I I've gotten a lot of great treatment at a lot of gyms You know I've been led in for free a bunch of times, but I have always Always tried to pay yeah, you know I got a free membership from the last owner of the last gym I trained at And I was like I'm happy to pay and he's like no, no, no, I'm not gonna let you pay just sign the contract And I'll put you in and then you know like that sort of thing So I've been very fortunate, but I have never ever expected it or asked for it and I've always tried to pay like When we walked into Binus did we try to get in for free? Sure, so you know We just walk in we're like hey, they're like day pass where they kept it like 30 bucks boom Respaned thanks like and the gyms full of pros like no one gives a shit about your hard you know and It's I don't know man that this weird expectation Like I think that they think Instagram is a real world or something like that's a that's an accurate depiction of their world Yeah, you know like their world is their Instagram. That's what the world is and it's like now That's your world Most people have you no idea what's going on Yeah, it's it's super shocking to me because You know as he's telling this story. I'm just shaking my head because You know like you were on I've went into gyms actually I went into a muscle factory in Texas where John Jewett in Ren train Um, and this was years ago and I went in and I was like hey, I get a day pass and it was a young girl behind the counter I don't know just look at your gym worker. She goes Uh Let me see like oh you guys don't do day passes like I was nervous like I dropped off by an Uber I'm in the middle of nowhere from my hotel It's just well I don't know if I'm allowed to let you pay. I'm like Wait, why I was like not what he What's the price and she's like we call the owner real quick? She calls she goes yes, sorry. He said I couldn't let you pay I just I knew who you were and I wanted to ask I was like a shock that she even had any clue V I was frozen because I was like oh no, they not do day passes because she seems so like yeah Confused when I was going on and Then and if the and he owner came in he was awesome awesome guy, but again. It's like dude if I'm gonna come to your gym and it's 20 bucks for the day Thanks, we should let me use your equipment, you know I mean it's like a portion of businesses Yeah, what you have in the gym right I mean yeah, and it's it's funny because I was talking to Lance about this I wish I knew this kid's name but there's a big Like Instagram kid that goes into his gym young early 20s and I guess he's like a big deal like when other when he walks in all the kids No, who is because like a college age gym and he came in there for a while and then he left for a bit I don't know why and he came back in and got a new membership and signed up and Lance was like hey, man Like you know well good you don't you don't have to pay like you bring a lot of people when your saw He goes oh no no I pay He was it for a gym like this I pay and it's like Lance telling us I'm like yeah, that's why he's successful Because he sees that and he knows he's got a great place to train to create content in the 40 bucks a month But to steal the run as business out of yeah So it's good to have both sides of the coin, but I really do wish that I could have been there when the guy was going on because I'm like no one cares Did you Yeah, those days are over Doesn't you know I mean yeah my friend Mike that I mentioned his job us fit I I have membership there in the reason I like he would if I was like hey Mike and I just get in he'd let me come train anytime I wanted and like a Victoria was to come with me She'll come with me, you know, but I pay a monthly membership there and here's the thing is that I want to support that gym And I feel like if he were to go out of business and I didn't support him I would never forget that do you know what I'm saying it's like he's he's got it's in my community He's trying to cultivate fitness and training hard training is good guy and if I don't support that and it ends and it's gone And it's kind of on me, you know, yeah piece of it at least Yeah, yeah That's what's the responsibility yeah part of the new economy is you have to like support the stuff that you Like you know like you you you you need to support it and and and in today's day and age For dollar getting worth less every single day right fact Listen, I got a question. I got a bunch a few questions here and I should tell everybody too if you guys have any questions That you want to share with the show then comment plus comments all that stuff it helps to boost the programming But we need listener questions. We since we put the ed interview out you know everybody was everybody had a lot of really nice stuff to say You know about that interview by the way and thank you for all of that But we didn't get a lot of questions in the last one Right I had a guy come up to me at the gym. He's like You know at cone like that was that you know just think of all the people we've had on the show like Jay and everybody But Ed cone was a one where he like come up to and he's like oh my god You know what I mean like he was like pretty stoked about Ed cone being on the show so that was that was that was pretty cool Yeah, people mentioned that I got a text from Ed Cohen I think that makes me feel so special so he was telling me about so you know he's doing the stem cells and He yeah, these some also some other stuff that he's doing with his doctor So I was like keep me posted. I want to know how these other treatments go you know Absolutely That's interesting Yeah, yeah, yeah, I feel like we could all use some stem cells. You know what I mean? Yeah, you could fire that information over to me I'll just do a share of a Text message So what about this one guys? This is from Chris Chris Wilson and this was in the Facebook group and He asked the group this question I wanted to see what you guys had to say he said I'm 48 I started lifting for physique about two months ago So he's literally brand new my question is if starting from absolute zero What could I expect in say two years my diet is on point cleaning controlled sleep is good plenty of water I don't drink booze. I work out hard to me three days a week and a day or two of abs calves for arms etc I do a basic push poll legs shoulders push day poll day legs shoulders ab day Says I'm not looking for specifics just what could I expect working hard eating and sleeping right at my age being 48 coming from grounds zero So I think It's not the age that matters Much I'm sure there's some science about that. It's the hormones like I Don't think it matters too much if you're you know 35 or 45 if you're starting at ground zero It's your training age And your hormone situation that are going to be the different so if his body's really banged up from all sorts of other Athletics and he's really going to be hindered or if he's already got a bunch of pre-existing injuries at 48 Then there's a different story if he's technically like Let's just say he's gotten to 48 with like nothing wrong with them And he can just give her in the gym Then it would just be his hormone panel that he might want to optimize For maximum do you know what I mean like I think training age and though your his hormone situation are the big keys there So you're saying it's not really the Sorry, trend is what you that's what you're trying to say right trend a lot of words for a four You know yeah So yeah, the not training age matters like you know can he you know what can he do? Is it unfeathered like ruthless training you know like I don't know what a situation is but yeah I mean those things matter and then is he gonna stay like natural like is his test level on the decline or is it optimized So those would be important things to know It's it's hard to say otherwise Yeah I think you really covered the majority what could be added to that so you know It's it's consistency over time and and also the big question We don't know the answer is how will he hold up to the training? Yeah, but I mean I think we forget I agree with you on the training age but like did he play football For high school college where when he's a busted up mess and then he's like All right, now I'm gonna lift because your your knee jerk is always like well training age your young It's like well not if he went through the meat grinder and three other sports Like I did motorcross before this show like I always 62 Yeah, I know it too is like and I'll say this is the I remember When I first got started up and I thought my diet was on point and everybody always says my diet's on point You know And then but then you learn more so what's on point now is gonna be different than what's on point and two years and you're training like you're training hard now But's training hard now is gonna be different than what training hard in two years is gonna be and so I say that too Because like we I think we all see that a lot and When we see like newer guys that are like they've got training figured out It's like man I've been training for a long time I still don't have it figured out because I'm still Like I still redefined stuff. I still come up against problems and then I if or I hit a wall And it's like what worked really good stuff to working and then I need to figure it out again You know or like the whole thing with after I got sick like my training is completely different than it was two years ago So it's like you know there's always an evolution so hit you know if he was training as hard as dusty can train Then he's probably gonna be better progress than if he's trained as hard as a newbie Constraint but we know that he's not training like dusty can't because he hasn't done it for you Just dusty you know I at most I'd say anyway so yeah, I'd say that you know just generally though someone who's pretty fresh Yeah bodybuilder Should be able to recomp You know between 15 to 30 pounds in a two-year period You know I mean if you had a really healthy 27-year-old come to me and he just starts training and two years later You just said he was 30 pounds bigger and 30 pounds leaner I would take oh the guy's got you know he responded well, but it's possible You know what I mean another guy might be 10 pounds bigger and 10 pounds leaner, but that's still a A significant change and how you're gonna look That's a big difference oh yeah, so yeah, you know sort of think in those terms I guess But I see Think that was that was really oh we had a couple here from Jim Jim's always got something for us overrated underrated The dire straits Especially Kevin who is this? David Napler don't David Napler. David Napler. Yeah, not there. It's a little far away if you're there's a David and Kevin so similar Interesting, once I don't I don't know a ton of about dire straits. I know that mark Napler and David Napler are brothers and they started the band and Mark Napler sings you know the song money for nothing that's dire straits. You know Saltens a swing Saltens a swing walk a life. They've got a bunch of great hits from the 80s and Mark and David started the band David's a rhythm guitar player. I don't really know anything about David Napler other than He was only in the band for the first two albums More than my English I don't know anything about a but it was only in every two years from 8789 his wife got pregnant and they had a kid Jerry and No, I know that He was on the first two albums and then he left the band because his him and his brother fought a lot and then he went and he disped his up producer He produces but I don't know anything and he's a producer you knew that too I Don't know as much about the women in my house as he does But dire straits is great. I would love I always wanted to see dire straits live They're like they've got their hits, but then there's also like tons of you know They've got tons of albums and Mark Napler's written music for decades and decades But I was wanting to go see them live. They're kind of a blues band essentially, but they're like no one as a rock band So they're they're great. They're great, but yeah, I don't really listen to them a lot But obviously I know they're good stuff. Saltens a swing Love that song it's a good one But money for nothing who doesn't like money for nothing Who doesn't like that riffs and money for nothing Yeah, that was that was so much fun for me just for details when you're asking questions target Ron on things he doesn't know about yeah Okay, this is one for each of us Ron. I'm heading to Edmonton in a few weeks anything you recommend seeing snow I Man, I don't know I'll live there for like 19 years So It's 16 years. I was there for 16 years. Yeah, 16 years So I don't know Jection the oilers yeah Connor you make David while yeah the greatest good at it. It's been possibly ever Yeah, that's the answer that's the answer he's he's possibly boy is the greatest player in the league right now easily isn't he? Oh for sure for sure yeah possibly discordance Yeah, you're saying that aren't you? No, like I'm sorry that go on a tangent, but like you could have somebody who doesn't know hockey watch And just be like it's like asking a three year old like what doesn't belong When he starts skating you're just like why so he's over time goal the other night I saw his overtime Yeah, they're Nate to win and that's just so he you love this Scott he he misses a break away in overtime Okay, goes up smash this stick on the boards twice bam bam Turns around the puck goes over the side of his as a teammate he passed away So now he's got the same break with shorter distance does the same move in scores I wouldn't know what's okay the identical move because he was just he's probably so pissed himself for missing because he could have got the first time He's like great I'll do it again this totally knows what's coming I'm still gonna beat him. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's Watching him like if the oilers are on TV I watch the game Yeah, just gonna imagine that good yeah, yeah, it's it's some I've I've been watching hockey for forever Obviously watching Lamue Gratsky the greats He's a different thing Okay, yeah, so go on. There you go again. I have a question Plus the oilers Edmonton just got a brand new arena like within the last few years I went and saw a tool concert there like Probably 2018 or something like that, but it's like really nice all brand new You know like one of the fanciest ones at the time in the league So that's cool to see you know and really in Emmettin. There's not really much else like So I'm a walder eight center there It's like a new arena But it's the that's the the site so you're pretty safe if you just get to an oilers game All right dusty besides go dogs what else have you gone all in on in the great S.E He S.E. South East I'm going to church it ton just like the rest of them That's not sure that was cool. I have not I've not been doing that but anyways that that would be like a true commitment to the south If I dove in um No nothing like super southern But but I've definitely gone all in on cigars that has been That's a commitment to me now That's yeah I don't want to get into the pricing. I'm working on ways to make more money from cigars so I can stop spending it So that's my current goal in life But yes, I do blame the south for that because You could never sit outside and smoke cigars in Arizona. Yeah, the idea of adding heat to your mouth of temperature while it's nine thousand degrees outside Is not a thing yeah, that's like a smoke a snow cone like forget about it in that place So yeah nothing nothing exciting here along those lines isn't this snow cone when you sprinkle coke on your weed? Listen this Not like I would ever do that but isn't that what it is? I've just I've heard Scott I've been in the air by the end and these uh oh yeah you go and read a formula What do you know answer Scott? What are your top tips for growing your audience for a podcast? So this is also from Jim McDonald he has a podcast and he does a podcast about like computer stuff Which he I think he had messaged me too and he was like dude I'm at a I'm at a convention. It's our biggest convention in our industry and I'm doing a podcast on stage today So I thought that was really cool shout out to him and I would say Provide thinking your audience and provide them with with some type. I'll tell you what this is something I had heard You want to provide value and And you want to provide so much value that they share it with their friends So if you give somebody if you found a a one dollar bill on the ground You're gonna pick it up right because the one dollar bill you're gonna pick it up put it in your pocket But how many people are you gonna tell about finding that one dollar bill? Now if you found a $20 bill just rolling in the wind you picked it up and you put it in your pocket You're probably gonna tell a bunch of people that day dusty you would tell us you'd be like you wouldn't be it Believe that was outside doing my Instagram Q&A and a 20-year-old buying the app they did up and put it in my pocket And we've been like holy crap dusty got a 20 today. That's crazy huh what look So you want to provide that level of content each time that somebody tunes in you want to give them a 20 I like this I also don't say excellent never mind yeah I got one more thing good. I got one more thing and I could be way off on this This is a while back in the podcast Ron you were saying something about a gym and something hit me No guys I listened to Ron on a podcast long before I knew him this goes back to like probably 2014 I want to say this was you but tell me if I'm wrong that somebody told a story that they got to the gym And it was only open for a half hour and They still wanted to get their workout in is this ringing a bell? Yeah, yeah, do you remember this story? The in this and I in 99.9% sure it was you like something happened and whatever the case was you only had like 40 minutes left But you ended up getting the workout in anyway and you used that in this sounds like a round thing You used that is like this is your constraint for the day that you got to get it in and you got to get it in in that 40 minutes And you said that you were tired and that you really weren't into it But then once you got started because of that constraint you had one of the best workouts you had in a while That was like 2014 it literally just came back to me Yeah, I actually think I know what you're talking about yeah There was a day in my prep I was getting ready for the Alberta's in 99 and I was living at my friend's house in the basement And sleeping on a mattress on the floor and you know living out of a gym bag going to college like I was really Dream yes, yeah bodybuilding dreams sleeping on the floor, you know Just like yeah living out of a hockey bag and a lunch lunch box like just you know Prep in Getting up at six in the morning going a bit at midnight, you know all that sort of stuff just getting ready for the show and I came home one day like six weeks out and And my roommates Girlfriend it left a note like it was like hey, I please I can't remember what it was I was like no more cooking after eight p.m. Please or something like that. I don't like her go out there and I don't know I can't remember what it was But I just thought oh well, this is their house so like You know, I'm not gonna be able to follow that rule so I gotta go So I just Called my other friend and I was a hey things aren't working out over here I don't have any time for drama. It's all good. I just need and he's like oh come stay at my place And I was like okay, so I just packed up everything I had put it in my car. I was just about to go to the gym And I was like oh now I have to move so I just packed up everything put it in my car left a note Hey, gotta go see a boom moved When over to his house unpacked had to read had to cook all my food because I you know I was about to cook food prep meals and then go to the gym so I had to go to all that at his house You know, and then I didn't get to the gym till like 930 and it closed at 10 but I was like I need to train today. I can't possibly miss a workout like it's not It's not possible I'm prepping for a show it has to be perfect. I have to train shoulders today. I remember shoulders Which isn't it terrible? We're like legs or something, you know, no I just rushed into the gym and like I think I had less than 30 minutes Like 27 minutes or something and I just rushed and just like oh, bobo bobo But just pound it out as many worksets as I could possibly cram into that time and drop set strip sets whatever And I remember afterwards I was just like I remember I think the way I told the story was I was sitting in my car and like you know The guys locking up like you know like I was the last guy out of the gym like he's not watching Yeah, I'm watching it. Oh, you finished tonight. Yeah, and I remember sitting there with like this massive shoulder pump like massive and it was like minus 30 out Like That's freezing like brutal Canadian cold out and I remember thinking nobody's gonna beat me Love that it's not possible Like I had a screwed up day and I solved every problem immediately and just moved on No hesitation drop drop drop like oh, okay gone move like there's there's one goal nothing else matters Everything else is just Details that can sort out later, you know what I mean and it was just like good I remember that I remember how I felt after that. I was like this is like And I'm back on track. Yeah, I finished my day exactly the way I needed every every box was checked Home to go to bed including Your boxes of stuff I have to ask now because I'm me Please it I has just the you pulled in a dusty and wrote on her note don't worry. I moved I Already saw me He's like you moved out mix so I couldn't cook after eight I had to go I suggest you're if you're talking to the boyfriend I suggest you get out too No, no He goes where do you go? Not like I'll talk again. I just I cleared out and he's like oh man and I was like it's all good Don't worry about it and it was like fine It was like no one was everything okay. It's amazing. It is all of that's so good so good I had one thing I had to say before we go yeah, I had I had a bit of a rant Yeah, something that was bothering me that's right. That's right. I Need to say something about I Don't mean to be judging Judging person I'm about to judge There's certain things and if you do them there's just things I think Right like and one of them is not putting lids back on stuff If you don't put a lid back on something It makes me feel like you're not gonna finish What you were doing like you don't finish things so like it happened that we we had a funny combo on the staff chat Did it because someone left a lid not on on the proteins or someone grabbed it off the shelf and I like fell Right My bad but it was kind of was funny, but but I just made me think like that bothers me and we were taught Remember when we were talking about lids dusty and that came up oh, yeah, and I just it's a it's a situation. I don't understand it. Yeah, it has to be if it's not on them When I open a cupboard and I see a bunch of lids kind of tilted like they're not screwed on they're just sitting there That's dangerous Just take there's a lot of stuff about fall apart. You're gonna read a note and just leave pack your boxes I want to move out I see that I'm standing in somebody's house and it's you're dangerous booby traps suck from it You know go Emily Gotta go yeah No dusty with kill himself Okay, dude that was I was Well, no, but so you you you set me off which of course. This is like a reverse of me because you said that and I had two Issues that place back to back That entered my mind because it's just happened yesterday I know it was this morning. I I went to get some all in and My youngest drinks at all the time. I drink it occasionally I'll get some all in so I reach up and the cupboard I grab it all in and it's empty Put it down yeah Another one empty put down grab another one empty I'm like three empty tub so I finally grab one that's not empty and yes, we have a ton of all in for anybody who's confused And I it's full so I'm I'm Little you're telling about those three but I'm happy to have some then I open it and you know the safety lid It's not gone. It's just lifted Right Oh You could even commit to opening the bottle like Could it opening it that's almost worse than not putting the lid back on Just I literally just I'm like and I look in there. It's half It's half empty or half full if it makes you happy But it's been open many times It has raffers never been taken off the seal of like You're ninging around trying to get the scooper in there because it's it's still pinned On a lot I'm like yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, and you know that's a small hand doing that that's not a man Yeah, it's gotta be just Yeah, do you know that that's a chick who's leaving that on and not peeling that off Yeah, you told me that I laughed about the three empty's and I remember to like oh And don't forget we don't take the thing all the way up. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know that's big I just think that there's gonna there's problems. There's other problems. That's just a surface That's a symptom of deeper issues on the surface. We've had that happen Not a lot, but I've occasionally gone to grab like a bottle of ad vill or something It'll be like right before bad You know, I need to take an ad on my elbow hurts or something and and they just Real tired too you know like real tired get ready to go to sleep Yeah, that a really dog time boom all over the place and then you gotta tell the dogs too No, no, because you don't with a dog There's this production, but thankfully Nobody did it in our house because I know I didn't do it. I was told nobody else did it either So we're good No one's in it. Oh, just come in and just loosen the lids and walk out No, I'm thinking somebody broken your house and did that they were like screw this guy There's unscrewed a couple lids and walked out So he won't need ad vill till nighttime and you'll only have the light on that's above the stove Yeah, the one thing I want to do is pick up 400 vitamin pines off the floor 11 47 Yeah, right exactly feel my heart How much vitamin B can the dog eat Just leave it you go You go back you go back you'll be fine Vitamin knee talk sick to dogs We just leave this for the morning Yes, oh yes, okay. I hope everyone's learning to value the lesson Like you said Scott we got to try to leave everybody with the 20 We love the most 50 on that one. You're welcome So actually there's a couple good takeaways. Yeah, we kind of agreed to not spend money on stuff you can't afford Jack right sort of is there a bit of a consensus here? That would say and then put your lids back on like in poor finish what you started that's like That's like three quarters of a hand job Like it's no good Yes, yeah, just all you had to do is just put the lid back on you know and then everyone would have been fine Not like that's the move. I'm not saying that that's the move You cut the top it's just a twist nothing to do with hand here Wow we're teaching rod's favorite move now It's just it's right Yeah, logic talk all the call to pool stick Yeah, okay, okay, we're done here. I think we're done For those of them that actually made it this far into the episode they get that little jam at the end So remember to like share subscribe comments and Bring the bell There you go. I'm dead. There you go. We drummed it for you Okay, and remember I am mutant calm dusty 20 big round 20 and Scott's patreon for think big body building network And yeah, we appreciate you guys remember it's just body building

What's up guys? Welcome back to Think Big Bodybuilding Media. I'm Scott McNally and of course I am back finally We've got Stevenson. This is our hundredth episode man We have a bunch of studies that we're gonna look at we actually have a series A many series if you will over the next three episodes. Scott's gonna bring us studies. This today is going to be about training specifically About to turn it over to him after that we do have One question from one of our patreon members. So we're gonna tackle this stuff. We're gonna hit that question at the end And then if you guys have any questions about anything we talk about today We were considering doing this episode and then doing a follow-up to do questions about the episode and then from there Getting into the next batch of studies So I Right to sit back and listen to you professor. Oh, I should also mention to we're brought to you by true nutrition.com So all right, what's up man? It's been a long time. This is our hundredth episode Well, yeah, you climbed out of the COVID pit so yeah, yeah, it wasn't an intentional like let's build the Expansion and for the hundredth episode there was no choice in the matter. It's I'm degree. Yeah, so I'm glad you're back brother I'll glad to be back. Yeah, thank you man. Yeah, yeah still recover in speaking of trainer nutrition. Yeah, yeah, I know You know I was gonna say I mentioned I I don't know if you follow it on Instagram I just started a facetious Sort of Hashtagging of the serial gains nation. I see that yeah, yeah, yeah, so that's what I'm doing post workout is a box of cereal That's kind of my standard and people are slowly There's slowly joining the nation which takes in people from all creeds and colors anywhere around the world world world Nation so to speak I just call it that because people use the nation thing all the time so I thought it sounds funny Yeah, but I actually I'm using true nutrition stuff for my protein. Oh, oh my way, excellent I thought it's gonna say Dante was making cereal now Lucky Charles. Oh, but he should I know right, though they got some of the protein cereals. There's the cereal there's Matt Porter has one. Oh, yeah, I have Porter proved And then there's another School yard cereal or some shit like that. They send me text messages all the time, but those are good Yeah, and we do accept people who are dieting who want to be part of the cereal gains nation If they want to use those cereals that's are like zero carb. Well, that's fine You can join you're not considered a second class medicine of the cereal gains nation Just your veggies your proteins based cereal. I like cool. Yeah, we're when do you come out with the shirts? When you come out with the shirts cereal gains names Like yeah, it's a guy Nick wearing I think I say his name. He trains it that they the Derek Oslo's gym where I've been training and Nick is I think the number five ranked Competitive eater in the world. Okay. I think it's what he told me Yeah, but he does the Nathan's hot dog challenge all the kind of shit. Okay, the badass body builder too, but He's sort of our poster boy. Oh, yeah, so I was shout out to Nick if you watch this He did a three boxes of lucky charms Challenge on it for St. Patrick's day the green ones and make your milk green. Oh my god What took you like run a half an hour something like that he's a monster So we'll see I'm I'm trying like I suggested this to him. This will be on his he and his is girlfriend Mickey. She's the number one female ranked competitor in the world. She's just ridiculous that house is a powerhouse Find her She's just I just watched a thing she would did the the big Texan and Albuquerquey and she ate two of them in just over an hour you're kidding get the thing free I did it like 52 minutes long time ago, okay, and she just nonchalantly eats there's no mess There's no no efforts just like sat there and just take the two of them maybe we should have her We should have the two of them on and get some get some insight, you know, I'm pushing our cereal and take up how that works I mean, and I have been talking shop about that all the time Like all the stuff they do I'm getting insight as the how those people can train to do that Yeah, she's just she's just an actual She literally the food even tastes good to her Yeah, whereas he doesn't have like the biggest stomach. He just not get he's just got a strong strong mentality So we can push himself through yeah, and that's what makes him as good as he is to some degree obviously He's got some gifts otherwise, but she's I don't I haven't asked him this but she might be better than him on all the events in general I don't know she's the best in the world among the among the women well you definitely have to be able to eat cereal You got to be able to eat period in order to grow But you also have to know how to train what are we what are what's what's what's our game plan for today? So There's so often this is sort of trial always trying to sort of bridge the gap between the bros you think science sucks and Not a scientist don't have that reciprocal sort of feeling about the bros, but there's a connection there as I say that the science that happens What a quote in the ivory tower is in the divert tower is in the same universe It's in the same town as the gym where the bros for your things out So I wanted to put together just some basic research studies That confirm the things that the bros know about a variety of things that we've sort of figured out It's infiltrated into our mindset and some of it just from empirical learning a little bit of dash of science You're but give some solidity to that and then also add a little bit of nuance to that information as well Through the science is out there That's the whole point of science is not just like you know generate all these data and published this so it can be Lodge the way in a you know in the library somewhere You know deep in the animals of Google scholar or PubMed instead it's to be used by people So I'm trying to like take the information say here's some usable stuff Apply this and this can help you be a better body builder. So yeah We got it's kind of a three part series today is gonna be training Think next week we'll do some drug related stuff and there's also nutrition related stuff So sort of grouping of just a few studies The all sort the information sort of converge onto a general idea related to training drugs and Nutrition so today's training okay so with that You can pull we got just three four main slides in the summary slide to pull that first one up All right, look at it here now this is not the summary side correct you want the actual the first one Says damage with dissection Damage with discretion or discretion oh I can't yeah, I got to get closer in order to read that Does it fill the whole screen? I like people will be able to read it or see let me make sure I get it out of here. We'll be able to but boom we are full screen mode at this point. Okay cool So a couple things There's the basic idea that we know People know like any trainer knows this sometimes trainers don't pay attention to this but first time you come in the training If I'm in training for while you've never trained before you'll get really really sore And then the next time you train those muscle groups There's something called a repeated bout effect or protective effect of that previous injurious bout So you don't get a sore the next time. Yeah, so you do come in and do like 10 sets of squats You have been training you're gonna be just annihilated but if you've been deep in training for months You try to do 10 sets of squats that's still held the workout but you won't be nearly as critical otherwise. Yeah, so keep that keep that in mind so First study for people first thing to kind of people look at it's in the upper left here Okay, and the idea that has been put forth in many acute studies and it does make sense Is that each time you train you turn on muscle protein synthesis You can measure that after training and To the extent and muscle protein synthesis and breakdown generally go hand in hand As one goes up so it is the other so they're kind of directly related and the idea of course is its synthesis will exceed breakdown Yeah, so You break down the muscle so to speak with the training and you incur the injury and then you have more synthesis than breakdown And because of that you accumulate muscle protein and the muscle cells get bigger Yeah, maybe you can get more of them if our five relationships and play so The thing that was interesting is when people started measuring Muscle protein synthesis like at the beginning of a training period and then looking to see if that was predictive of how much growth Someone got over the training period the correlations were atrocious Okay, it was basically like you're not you're not predictive at all like nothing Yeah, not significant you know around zero negative numbers in fact if you look in that and this won't be hard to see I apologize I wanted kind of make this simple people might be able to screen capture and zoom in and this particular study This was Domus that I talked about this on the podcast I leave before they measured my my Fabular protein synthesis beginning of this training period 12 weeks long and when they looked at how much growth was a vote over the course of the training The training period the correlation was negative point two to one wow So and it was non-significance so that means nothing so perfect one to one correlation to our value the correlation is one Zero means there's no association whatsoever between the two things you're looking at so it was zilch So that doesn't seem the maxis idea that if you turn on protein synthesis really robustly That and you do that every day over the course of your training period you're gonna get the most muscle growth Because that day one there was no correlation between what eventually happened weeks down the road But if they waited till week three Which is you're getting past that you're getting that repeated about effect in play that protective effect is there Now you're not nearly as sore and the injury isn't quite as obvious you're not like You're not doing the comacasi when you go to sit on the toilet where like holy shit just dive bombing Cause your legs hurt so much. Yeah, yeah Once you're past that in week three then the measured protein synthesis and you can see in that graph and what I've written there is that in week three and then at the end of the training After your past that initial period of all the sort of champagne Then the correlation is like point nine Super strongly correlated that's really that's actually a really really really impressive correlation That means that literally about 80% of the variance in as to how much someone's gonna grow Can be explained by the protein synthetic Effect of the of the training balance which makes sense biologically yeah, were you trying to protein synthesis the more you grow So what's going on there initially Such that the correlation is for not well That's when people are getting sore Couple things I've talked about it in one way is that you've got so much damage That your protein synthesis is and there's some limits there of course is just going to try to keep up with the damage that you've Encouraged and that the other way of looking at that the other side of that same coin is that because you it's your it's new And novelty when you get so so sore there's so much injury the muscle protein breakdown is really substantial So even if you had a strong protein synthetic the fact from a training bow if you're starting off and you're fresh And you you get really really sore you've got so much muscle protein breakdown that it doesn't amount to much Yeah, and the thing we know from the muscle soreness literature is the training Soreness and muscle breakdowns all over the place I get sore really really easily I mentioned John Meadows and someone who doesn't tend to get sore and he's grown really well with he I just talked to him like a week or so ago and He reminded me that when he made his like a big growth spurt when he started putting intro workouts in Back in the day and people thought it was a shield, you know the way he said that but it's what he's experienced He wasn't getting sore whatsoever It's best growth Decades into training happened with no muscle soreness really whatsoever And it was associated with that intro workout That he was that he was for Teenation I think they had the I can't worth the name of the product was but John was sort of the poster boy for that. Okay, so So this tells us that being super duper sore is not really the greatest thing right Because what you're evoking there acutely isn't contributing to the long-term gains which is what we want muscle mass yeah, so doing too much Isn't the best thing so the next study here if you look to the right you'll see a couple plots This is a very like literally in the title of the of the of the publication they put the no gain no gain no pain no gain is there Because they wanted to see what would happen If you did what smart personal trainers do and start somebody off with really really Lower intensity lower volume training initially Yeah, which will still get that protective effect You do just a little bit step just do like one set of squats one set of what whatever You'll get a maybe a little bit of soreness, but nothing over the top and ease your way into training What does that mean? Do you have to blast into training and then just blast through that first three or four weeks two or three weeks? Can you still grow So take a look at the Right most plot there and you can see I've written red of void damage Those are that's a plot showing Create and kinase in the two groups that they had so one group Spent three weeks easing their way in as far as training volume and you can see them the left plot If you look on the right plot The bottom line there that's that's below that dotted line across the graph That shows the creatinine levels in the blood of that group the group that ease their way in So creatin kinates gets released from damage muscle you get the inflammation the plasma membrane the cell membrane becomes porous An enzymes leak out like creatin kinase. So that's a traditional marker muscle damage Basically using that that level that they've got dotted there which is suggestive of Muscle injury they avoided that all the way through for the eleven weeks of training that they did Now look at the other plot that's above that one for much of those eleven weeks in the fourth week That group came in and And they wanted to try to accrue as much volume over that over the as the other group Until the end of the training period so they did higher volume In each of those weeks to try to get the same amount of training done essentially and the creatin kinase went sky high You can see that the first plot is like that rest that's the baseline no training and then for the next one two three four weeks They're creating kinase with sky high because they were killing them Okay, it all it took like four weeks for them to bring that creatin kinase now. So they were sores Jesus In those first four weeks and finally got into control well what happened did the the that group we just went for broke Get any better did they grow any better did they get any any stronger? No, so look at the bottom there the increase in quad size for the no pain group It's just been like three extra weeks easing their way in was a think was about six and a percent in the group that really pushed it 7 a percent that's basically the same The increase in strength that they showed in the training exercises the ones that they measure I think it may be a leg press Was basically 25% 26% for each okay, so You can as long as you spend some time easing your way in you're gonna get the same gains Had going through that period of crazy soreness Doesn't help As long as you give yourself a little bit of extra time to ease your way into the training because you do that and just one or two weeks I would bet you would that protective effect can happen and just one in one bout you could probably go three or four bouts of Sub-damaging and elicit that in the way they did because by the fourth or fifth or six weekend They're they're doing the same work essentially as the other group that was that was sort of playing catch up and Sory shit for like a mug Well, before they finally brought the muscle damage down in the last few weeks of the training yeah, so The proofs in the pudding like you can grow just as well without destroying yourself That's exactly what John experienced yes best best drug out being extra sore and from the first study and in this slide it shows That's sorness when you're when you're breaking into a program when you're really sore like that The muscle protein synthesis which is which is what you want to make happen for growth Huge correlation after the sorness is gone if you're super sore you're wasting it Yeah, having too much break down and or the protein synthesis is just playing catch up listen to I got to tell you two man. I feel like that's something I wish I understood sooner I think about I think about like leg training where I had Destroied my legs so bad so hard it would take forever to get them to recover Whereas did I really have to Do what I did and I found that if I do less I can get better growth now today I it's just a thing man where I feel like we all want to just freaking kill ourselves so hard on everything You know, I mean it's like if if a gram is good or a 500 milligrams is good then a gram has to be better in two grams has to be magic You know, I mean Well, here's the thing too like and this points and we're gonna get into this today actually as well Okay, is instead of doing you know 20 sets for your legs or 15 sets Yeah, let's say 15 once a week and you just destroy yourself and you spend the next you know three or four days soar Which can happen that protective effect is also variable some people have it strongly I'm always sore. I just tend to get sore What about doing five sets On Monday five sets on Wednesday and five sets on Friday. Yeah with a higher frequency That's gonna avoid the soreness Yeah, then if you think about it in the context of this first study You're never you're never Basically digging the hole. Yes, much in terms of the breakdown and The using up your protein synthesis with this monstrous workout instead you're getting workouts that are stimulating Yeah, and avoid and making sure that that protein synthesis is directed towards a Crueying muscle size over the course of your training period and makes total sense living your mesocyte Yeah, so yeah, avoiding so you're Exactly right. This is this is why for some people higher frequency stops gonna work better Because you get the same training volume in and Vaunt. There's a dose response with training volume 15 sets once a week versus five sets three times a week Check my math three times five 15 to same training volume yeah, so but there's more new ones to that so like sometimes the studies Don't suggest we're gonna get it this actually okay just a second year that the frequency doesn't always play So that's a good segue Scott hey what's going on guys? Thanks for watching another podcast here Think Big Bodybuilding Media and thank you to our great sponsor true nutrition dot com for making this all possible True nutrition dot com is owned by Dante Trudeau the creator of DC training you wanted to create a supplement company That offered high quality third party test and supplements at a fair price high quality protein powders Just about every type you could think of huge variety of flavors plus health and performance supplements Check them out true nutrition dot com and hey if you use our code advices You directly support our podcast and thanks guys. Let's get back to the program Let's pull up let's put the next slide. All right got it And So's big picture programming? Yes Okay, so On the left there I've got a study which I've referred to previously And I talked about this so this was there's some Brazilians involved I think I think Stu I sure have stuf those was on this one or not but So Brazilian group that's done a lot of this work that I'm talking about here today and what they want to do is test the effect of Frequency is sort of the way they catch it but literally was also volume and they use this one leg Training method this this model for Examining muscle growth which I think is just brilliant. That's yeah actually what I used in my dissertation We just trained one leg and use the other leg as a control so it's kind of like It's basically like having twins you've got one trend that gets one treatment and the other twin gets the other treatment either no treatment or a Different treatment in this case Every person in the study Train one leg five times a week and The other leg either twice or three times a week so they literally had three training conditions But the cool thing is is that you got you don't have to have that many subjects Because one leg is getting trained five times a week Yeah, the other leg is getting trained for a lower frequency and which was in this case also a lower volume So each workout was just three sets of knee extensions taking a failure in the nine to 12 rep Range and they were progressively increasing so And these were these were on Untrained individuals so That plot there that is on the left side that shows the increase in in this case the bassist ladder Alice muscle which is your lateral quad With an MRI they measured size there and it increased in all cases whether it was trained Five times a week which is 15 sets Or two or three times a week which is six or nine sets and it was a progressive increase and that shows just the different plots for those different training Conditions and there was no difference it did not make a difference whatsoever Whether it was five times a week or two or three times a week on average okay? So when you average everything together and that's what happens This is sort of the beauty of science is you can take those averages and Without knowing anything about the individual other than he is among the population of people studied in that study Those averages and the statistics that we use to evaluate those averages allow you to predict what you might expect on average For an individual who matches those subject characteristics Yeah, but it's not gonna tell you exactly because everyone's a snowflake right everyone's different yeah To some degree and So that's what they did. I'm gonna get to that in just a second, but I've got a one more study Which was really very cool as well that they did and it ties in as well so They asked the question and this is same group they had I believe these were trained individuals. Okay, pretty cool because They made some made some growth here. They took them and Had one leg train just basically essentially the same way or they were doing leg presses and And knee extensions and they did Four sets of leg presses and four sets of knee extensions that nine to twelve rep max range okay with one leg and then the other leg they did Four different workouts so they're training four times a week So somewhere in the middle of their previous study So in one of the in general there is more volume and they wrote to these three these four workouts and I'm not gonna go through all the details But one of them included a high rep day Where they are doing like I think like 15 to 25 reps per sets There was another day where they did a little more volume. They did 12 sets of volume on as a versus just the Eight yeah the other leg which is the control leg that leg got eight sets the same every workout And then they also had some eccentric only reps So They were having they were lifting and then letting them just lower the weight so really focusing on the eccentric Which is gonna create more soreness But you get more tension there and we'll talk more about why I expect you to support and so they were they're Employing what a lot of people do which is a great way to keep variety in your training You don't go on the gym every single day into the same damn thing. Yeah, okay leg press Extensions same rep range same number sets that'll bore the shit out of you said they mix it up and what happened there Was if you look on the right There was a little bit more my my favorite approach in synthesis in the variable group which's on the right Where they buried the workouts versus the control just a little bit So you would expect that you know in there they had enough subjects of the head good statistical power and that might increase Mean that more protein synthesis at the end and they measured this at the end of the training period Yeah, would mean more growth that's kind of what the other story said he told us with the 90% It but however if you look on the left plot there Those are the individual plot individual points for the left leg and the right leg of all the subjects And the bar graph are the averages that's behind there. Okay the change in bass and slider all CSA was Literally dead on it's like 7.5 7.8 percent exactly the same So the variation didn't matter and Even though they had a little more muscle protein synthesis with the very very training where they changed things up every training day So let's go to the next slide so you're telling me that not changing it up was just about as effective Yeah, changing it up far as as far as yeah increasing muscle size. Yes, okay Even though there's a little more protein synthesis Yeah, that was brought about from what they could tell so that tells us that's a strong correlation But it's not the entire picture Okay, I got the next slide no to it Okay cool and that's just leave that one there, but no to the in the variable group They were doing one of their days with x-centrics only okay terms of the reps That'll make you sore it that's a lot of damage. Oh, I see there. Yeah Can make you sore so Looking at this next slide here So here's what's interesting So This is that same study on the left here and the question is sort of is more volume better So looking at that same study that we've been talking about here just now Is they look at the muscle protein synthesis versus the total training volume And there was a slight correlation there They added up the training volume over the eight weeks. That's the plot on the upper left the right most one that's labeled e Okay nice correlation there. It's 0.355 It was significant They looked at the training total training volume in the in the 17th sessions so near the end and the protein synthesis was greater as a function of the training volume So when you every time you train there's going to be an increase in protein synthesis and also an increase in protein breakdown And those generally go hand in hand Muscle protein breakdown is almost never measured. It's very methodologically difficult to do that So it's sort of like this It's like the dark pattern version and then this realm of exercise physiology or like we kind of like there's we know that that's going on But usually is not measured So here's the interesting thing Look on the bottom left there Okay If you plot the eight week total training volume and we know training volume turned on protein synthesis more From everything I've just mentioned If you look at training volume Versus the change in quad cross or vases later Alice across sectional area there was a negative correlation So the more people tend to the train the less they grew Okay, which which suggest that even though more volume turns on More protein synthesis more so More volume can also be excessive Yeah Train too much you turn on break down too much so the black matter portion of our equation the muscle Protein breakdown can be excessive yeah to the point where you don't have a positive protein balance I've been there with matter so I know if had those workouts those weeks very first study So I don't believe they looked at muscle soreness Or gather that or measure it But from the first slide we see that too much we are sore Does not vote well for making gains? Yeah, so more total training volume is a stronger stimulus you can see that from more protein synthesis But what matters is the balance of synthesis versus You have to have a positive protein balance and in this case apparently that was not the case More training volume generally speaking meant less muscle growth yeah in this study So the train volume didn't really help Or the variety didn't really help if there was a little bit more training volume just by the way they set that out Just a test of tad I think it was like literally like four or five percent in reading the text Okay, and it increased protein synthesis a little bit so a little bit of variation in the workouts were totally different But the training volume was just about the same the way they quantified it I really didn't two exercises this wasn't a Function of like you know do you count a bench press as a a tricep exercise? You know sometimes there's an issue with counting training volume Whether it's an isolation or a compound This was just leg press and Using the same exercise leg press and the extensions they just Verried the sets the number of reps and the set configuration okay, so So a little bit of training variety of training variety like mix it up Adds a little bit of volume doesn't really do much for you fact it can make it such there's too much volume so Remember the study where they trained one leg five times a week and they have the leg either two or three times a week Yes on average it didn't matter the growth was the same on average Well those same brilliant researchers I forgot I love that they did this they went back and they re-evaluated the individual data Okay, so On the right side of the slide there you see Um, it's figuring with two plots and the one on the left shows the two the training volume For the high frequency five times a week Versus the lower frequency and what they did is they just took those two or three times a week and just consider those as one So they kind of made that one condition for comparison purposes Okay, there's basically everything was the same there So on the left you see obviously five times a week much more training volume and On the right two or three times a week much less training volume all those plots from the high volume or high frequency to the low volume low frequency go from go from high to low But what happened in terms of muscle size and I've covered this one on a few podcasts and here Here's one of them and we've actually had this up as the slide previously this right most plot Those are the individual data points for changes in muscle size In the vassus ladder LS they're all over the place yeah, so If you look look on the upper right and saw there's uh there's some words written over there I kind of had to cover it up There is the person there who had a Changing quad cross or vast lettuce cross section area that was about 20% in the high frequency And they're the highest plot on the right most set of dots They're at nearly 30% for the low frequency So that person they responded really really well 20% increase in size Is phenomenal growth yeah for a couple months of training 30% is just off the charts yeah But they did significantly better from a practical standpoint with low volume Versus the higher volume okay, but they they responded really well and either So that for them From high frequency to low frequency if the the line goes up Yeah, but if you look at all those a lot of those lines going from left to right the line goes down Those are people who did better with the high frequency high volume and not nearly as well With the low frequency low volume and then when they went and looked at it It was very interesting about one third of the people did better with high frequency high volume One third did better with low frequency low volume and one third it didn't matter The growth responses were about the same when they broke it down But they didn't compare just to be clear they didn't compare high frequency low volume though that's not on here Right? No because the way they set their training up because a good question. I'm glad you asked that Is that they did five days a week and it was three sets each training Training session I see for that okay, and then we up so like imagine you're going unless so your left leg is getting hit five times a week You're going in Monday and you're trained the left leg and then you train the right leg the same and then Tuesday You're going in just train the left leg. Yeah, and then then you go in Wednesday and just train the left leg Yeah, if you're in the two times a week it might go in Thursday and train the left leg and the right leg And then you go in Friday and train the left leg. Okay, just three sets each time So they couched it as training frequency but volume was also Also very here so at another way to do that would be exactly what what I suggest people do like what I mentioned before You take those 15 sets and spread them out over three workouts as opposed to putting them in one yeah, but this this This study they did not do that that's another way to configure the study which is a great way to do it It's a better way to evaluate Frequency in and of itself. Yes, I want to basically evaluate it Both frequency and volume Yeah, that's why I keep saying those things together because they didn't distinguish between the two five times a week is both high frequency and high volume Two times or three times a week is both lower frequency and lower volume gotcha So so one third did better with the higher frequency high volume one third Dirt did better with the lower frequency low volume and one third did didn't matter they're equally equally effective for this duration of this training program But look at the Worth or the dots are there are some people that are down close to zero There's if you look on the right at the lowest point on the right set of points on that right most plot there There's somebody who had a negative increase in size for the lower frequency Yeah, the very bottom there's a couple isn't there? There's just one that there's one person who had basically just barely broke above zero Okay That would that dotted line there is worth what they sort of considered non-responsiveness. I see I see did not respond to Frequency or low frequency Gotcha he was the only non-responder to both training modes both training volume slash frequencies But the the other guy who didn't get anything out of the low frequency He actually did okay got about 7% Right just from I balling the graph there with the high frequency So he was This is where people would say You may be a non-responder to a given training regime But you're not an absolute non-responder. There's something you can find something that's gonna work. Yeah So there's only one instance in this study where that person was According to the two ways that that person trained five times a week or either two or three I don't know which that person was that poor that poor saw did you grow from anything? Yeah, you worked So I mean that must have really sucked right you know to go through all of that But who knows there may have been other things we're gonna get in a nutrition In another podcast okay that plays a big role too and they weren't paying attention to that So this is just the training So this is very cool stuff this this basically in the bottom line here I've written there is that growth is highly variable generally So some people like the one can you imagine this like the guy who had like the you know The what is it about 27% increase on the lower frequency and like 20% of he's the best responder overall for sure He like he could have gone in twice a week gone in twice a week can imagine this like this so here's a scenario You've got that that guy who any of those two bottom ones who basically got just over zero or literally mathematically negative muscle growth from training twice a week and they happen to be training partners That guy got 27% training He twice a week yeah, like that's like he just blew them out of the water Like he's gonna be like this was only I think eight weeks of training So that's 16 workouts like he's seeing a one more than a one and a half like a one and a half Percent increase in size Every time comes in yeah, that's crazy. It's quite gonna look bigger every time he goes in the gym And the other guy is getting nothing Zilch Zipo not a yeah He's just like dead in the water as far as muscle growth goes so that's what happens with people are genetically gifted They outpaced their peers usually right from the get go But the the good thing here is well one to know that there's a highly variable Some people are just genetically gifted but the big thing is that like for some of those if you look at some of those lines Of the most slanted like I'm looking at one now It's about 22% with high frequency and Looks like about seven percent with low frequency So like that's a that's a threefold difference basically High frequency high volume is the way to go for that person. That's gonna work for them But there are other people Who are very much the opposite? They didn't do well at all with the with the high frequency high volume is too much So what this kind of points to is that or Mesa's curve and I know folks can't see me now, but actually I'm in the adaptation they can see you Think it's the graph too. Yeah. Oh Awesome. Thank you your your the man So thank you you increase volume in this case vis-a-vis higher frequency training and Everyone if then have their own relationship between where they get the optimal growth It's okay with so for some people if you plot it like one times a week versus two versus three versus four versus five They peeked twice a week that'd be the best the best way to train for them At least for this muscle in particular or one particular muscle Um Let's hear I'm getting messages about my CPU being hot. Oh, I'll lose it Yeah, you broke up a couple times you broke up a couple times but we're following a long stuff So but someone else might find that peak if they were with for their exam and then test out over time One two three four five six They'd even seven times a week They're gonna do best at four or five Yeah, so you gotta you gotta figure that out for yourself And that's what this study is just so it's worth reiterating again and again and again and again because Not it's like fortitude training for instance, you know, it's a they're had the basic by two frequency versions in there For this reason it's only three and four You know, but two might be better for some people so you can take the program and spread out the days if you want But I also have three volume tiers Yeah, this reason because I knew this before this study came out But this study just is the best one that I know of substantiating this very notion that there's so much individuality And so you gotta figure out what works for you you can't some people could train with the highest volume tier in my program Others do the best from the lowest volume tier And the thing that that I also have set up and this is why this is an aside, but it relates Is auto regulating your how you when you blast and cruise So some people for them They hire free push you higher volume and they can handle they might blast along and try to progress for five or six weeks For they take a break Whereas someone else training at that frequency They take a break more often Because they tend to like basically backside If they if they keep going with that frequency and volume and that's the thing they did this and one of the studies from the Previous slides, but what you don't always see what we don't always know Over the course of eight 12 16 weeks Is what happened to some people so someone might have been on a nice They were growing and growing and growing for six or eight weeks and then It was time for a break and they needed a deal load they started getting so we're gonna start to get you run down They're training efforts started sucking But what they do is they just keep on training because it's a 16 week study That's what you got to do keep going And those last eight weeks are for shit and they actually back slide you know they don't make any gains Or they over literally over train and start to lose size And that can indeed happen So that's what you don't always see what's going on in the middle So being able to find a break in there which basically Over the long haul if you take a one and a half week break over five weeks or one week break Over those five weeks your frequency is less on average because you took the break So that's the way to sort of adjust your frequency So that's where auto regulation comes in a play There's some data looking at that. I don't have the slides or that I had covered those here, but Anyway, so this is just a really nice study that confirms that We're all different you got to find what works for you. This is why DC training works for some people and mountain dog training works much better for other people Yeah, that's an example Let's hit that uh hit that last slide. This is sort of some more comp confirmatory stuff All right, we got that up So this isn't to say you know that you like and we talked in the previous you know about how much the The muscle soreness and damage can be Can be work against you you don't want to avoid those negatives Because there's some import in those those are the ones That do create the most damage. There's the aspect of a rep concentric is lifting up eccentric is coming back down There's more force per unit muscle during x-centrics Interestingly enough and this is what I have written there on the upper left of this slide Is that the contraction in terms of the quote-unquote work Not really doing work technically when you're lowering, but if you compare Compare lowering of a rep of a weight versus lifting and consider that the same unit of work You're like two and a half times More if quote-unquote efficient during x-centric then concentric One study and this was done by my mentor back in the day when he was working for NASA Show that during a leg press where they compared Lifting the weight with no lowering so it's just the concentric versus lifting and lowering and normal rep up and down up and down all under your own power It only added about 14% to the energy cost of the rep to lower it on your own So Accentrics are they're energetically very inexpensive So you don't you don't gain much in terms of like getting more reps for instance by like lifting and then you see some people just could have dive bomb their reps Drop it up the bat you gain a small amount 14% is in much But the question is how much or how important are those for the actual training games that you can make and The meta analyses show this generally speaking There's different ways you can compare this with specialized devices, but the one of the best sort of basic bare bones studies But I know of is one that was done by my mentor with some of his colleagues. Oh, one other thing Before I get to that just to show you how little x-centrics affect fatigue Take a look at that bottom of most plot you don't need to be able to see the details to get the idea here. Okay, so what they did was they took it they took um And familiarized their subjects over the over a month like once a week they brought them in and got him used to this and they put them on an isocunetic dynamometer So fancy fancy knee extension device and You can set that up where it only you only have to do the concentric and then oh, yeah Yeah, yeah, or or you can you can set up where you start and it just you start pushing and it pushes you down I had to do that. How are you? I did that when I I did do that for a test when I had my ACL replaced Probably outside backs machine there's there's several Brands out there we had a king com one at Georgia one out there so okay, so this is this is the they're they're useful actually if you could set up There are some brands of resistors exercise equipment that that allow you to overload on the x-centrics that would be bad Yes, oh, they're awesome the great but they just people just don't like them a little bit price year They feel a little bit odd, but it's there's it's an advantageous way to train. I see this really is So but check out the plot here. So what um what you see there is torque So that's the what was happening in terms of the force being produced about the knee joint and They took them in on three different days Actually, I think it was six different days and they had them do at all out set of What was actually 32 reps okay, so each of those eight points there represents the average of four reps and if you look at the left most set About one if you can read that there is that open squares and and build squares The open squares shows the torque of the force production of the course of those 32 maximal Concentric all out reps okay, and there's like a 30% drop-in force roughly which you expect Yeah, so you're yeah, so they're they're fatiguing during the concentrics and They tested them on three different bouts and you can see each of those blocks look pretty similar In fact, they're kind of a little bit lower up after they're doing this maybe they're choosing their motivation So those are the fill those open ones and the bottom those are concentric you can't produce as much force on a concentric Okay, you can't on an x-ventric The the field squares are the 32 rep bouts. This is all out eccentric only So just battling against the machine when it drives your your leg down during a knee extension And the force actually tends to go up over the course of the bow and it's certainly in ends up at a higher value at the end or it's basically the same Vogue value as at the beginning 32 all out reps with zero average fatigue over the course of the bow and that's because There's some inhibition that's involved there. There's a protective neurological protective mechanism in place So you don't tear something because you could produce so much force But also those so energetically inexpensive to do though, so you're not you're not not Lowering or reducing the stimulus of the set by Doing controlled x-entrics What you're actually doing is require using muscle In a way that produces more force for whatever you're using and it almost adds zero to your fatigue Over the course of the set you'll fatigue just as much with if someone lowered every rep for you So the question then becomes like well what happened if you just trained that way? Well, that's what Dr. Dudley and his colleagues and asked that try to figure out they're trying to this was actually at all in in a line of research Trying to figure out how to hold on muscle mass hold on a muscle mass with astronauts and space flight. Oh, okay Yeah, so they're trying to figure out because you don't have you there's no gravity in space Yeah, obviously, but you can create devices and they have that will allow you to do concentric and eccentric reps like normal reps With that eccentric action, so they want to know how important is that can we just make this easy and just have like a You know flywheel this momentum it's all concentric or do we need to have some eccentric involved yeah, so They had people do Train twice a week for 19 weeks and They're doing Both leg presses in the extension think five sets of leg press for the knee extension and That was the basic workout for the lifting and lowering and then they had two other comparative workouts one was this would have been just horrible as a as a you know a lab assistant to do So they had them do Oh, that's missed there's a misprint right there The middle they had them do twice as many sets Okay 18 sets twice a week but only concentric Okay, so they did like it's so it's not supposed to lift in lower Yep, they would the middle one says con con oh, I see yeah Yeah, yeah, when the right one it's it's lifting up not down Yeah, but I'm for I under the con con I put lift in lower it shouldn't say that got you notice that we're good That's probably my coffee paste here. Yeah, but I mean I had to fabricate this figure from several other figures Yes, so so the con act on the left is nine sets regular twice a week for 19 weeks the con con is The double the volume Bob and the con is just the nine sets but no lowering Okay, so what those bargrats graph show Is the change in muscle fiber type fiber area in the both the type ones and the type two Act before versus after the 19 weeks of training and they also made some measurements after one month of detaining just to follow up on that Okay, so Just look at the the bar graphs that have the lines and not the ones that are that are more filled in Have the die lines Just kind of focus those those are the most important for us so if you look at The left most side you see about about 12% increase in the type ones and About a 30% increase in the type choose yeah, that's what you tip would see These run train folks as well here if you look at the con only so all the way to the To the right You see a little bit less in the Type ones and about half the increase in the type choose so as type choose didn't didn't grow nearly as much As they without the x-centrics in there and even when they doubled This is the middle condition when they doubled the volume twice as many sets With no lowering so this will be the the case where you see someone who just they push up and they just they're just dropping the weight and just like banging out the reps in a very Uncontrolled fashion yep see it all the time You see it all the time well this is this is this is that to the extreme where there's lilies no lowering at all Okay, they they were had the the type one fibers grew even less than with the about or about the same as with the nine sets and They still didn't get quite the same growth. It's pretty close But it wasn't it wasn't terribly it was about the same a little bit less and the type choose So even in doubling the volume You didn't see much So and what happens there if you look down at the the the more filled in Bar graphs Take a look at the type ones for that middle condition the con con a month later Basically they're all that that small amount of fiber growth that they had was gone It was just it disappeared. He went to nothing. Yeah, where's you look at the leftmost the con X the normal reps The type ones held onto their size entirely yeah on average so That was a more like persistent Maintenance of that growth it stayed yeah for longer period time That's what of course we want so in case you do have to take a deloter What have you you've got growth that stays I wouldn't have been surprised if People talk about and there is evidence that some people experience a sarcoplasmic hypertrophy That's is what there's a guy in Cody Honest on this study There's some issues with the study because they just looked at the people who grew and Then they demonstrated that was the case half their subjects didn't grow from the protocol to the use But the half that did showed some evidence of a sarcoplasmic hypertrophy Because the nature of that I would be surprised if it was happening in those type twos The that growth that they they found there was glycogen Oregon L sarcoplasmic particularly the things that contribute to sarcoplasmic hypertrophy not my or Fibular because they're doing this they had so much of an energetic demand and doing twice as much twice the volume That that would make sense to the type ones would grow and then once that energetic stress is gone You just lose the glycogen you lose the glycogen loading effect that comes from training Glacogen levels would come back down without the energetic stress You know, it's it's an easier phenomenon to to remove and clear away the some of those sarcoplasmic components Versus the contractile protein which is a very very highly organized by a Fibular construct within the muscle so doing the lowering gave you good growth that stuck Much better that makes sense Yeah, so the con the con nine sets the growth didn't stick look at what happened there on the right most Basically after the one-month month of detraining they've essentially lost all the size they had in the type choose No kidding. So yeah, it's basically they aren't totally gone that happened essentially the type one too So you've got it so there's obviously cleared vanagers to doing the x-centrics Yeah, and in this case That's a pretty reasonable program twice a week nine sets Yeah, that's a nice you know, no one would block at that It's totally tolerable that's a middle-level row that's gonna get you good growth from your average person And we see here on average that it's a good idea to have those x-centrics in place Very important they're energetically inexpensive and they create more force Preunit muscle mass and they create some of the damage which is part of that remodeling process And no here two they did 19 weeks so they were probably pretty sore at the first couple weeks But then they had 16 17 weeks actually grow and they progressively overloaded of course And the study too so they did long enough study to let people kind of get used to it progressively overload them And they showed here and one of the clearest fashions that I've seen that if you remove the eccentric from your rep If you die on your reps, so you're not you're not controlling that eccentric You're losing out at a very important aspect of What produces muscle growth yeah, especially those type two fibers it's nice to see it muscle mood. Yeah, it's nice to see it. Yeah, it's nice to see it because I I've learned that you've obviously learned that You know, I don't know man. I think I think part of that comes down to the ego lifting thing Because people want to keep pushing the way you have to use a lot it takes a lot of energy man to control a weight on the negative Psychological energy But but but in terms of metabolic cost it doesn't it doesn't so if I were just to Say get on the squat and just do we had this right here in the Midwest called the demon drop And I thought of it recently it was like a little box at the best theme park It just drops down and then Wow and refalling for like two seconds Yeah, like I've seen some people squatting like I probably did years ago, too So you're telling me that the metabolic Expenditure of doing that versus really controlling it down isn't much different Yeah, so here's what happens when people die bomb things yeah You get a stretch shortening cycle that play here. Yeah, yeah, so it's kind of like like the the best example of a muscle that was engineered To make use of the elastic energy that comes from that Is is the Achilles ten or the the calf muscles the planar flexors that are attached to your Achilles yeah Achilles ten and it is just a long spring And you'll see in some of the best sprinters who have a lot of the factors all rolled into one to make them really fast They a lot of times we'll have small calves The calf muscles aren't big because you don't need a lot of muscle there What they have with having small calves is a very long spring So they have a lot of Achilles tendon with which to harness elastic energy and and use that So they can spring forward I Heech each step I see where you're going and and you see people to get on like the seated calf raised You just bounce all over the place Yeah, take out rage as long as you don't tear your Achilles you could take out rage as weight and just bounce it all over the place Sure, sure just slow that down the like a four second rep, you know two up and two down Totally different story yeah, you'll feel it in the muscle you're not you're not training your tendon You know you're training the muscle so to speak so you can you can like if you think well I get lot more reps when I go fast like that Yes, you do Because you're basically harness the energy of the free falling weight yeah It's as in an elastic sense and there's a reflexes involved. There's a myotatic reflexes involved and We may have covered this on one of the I know I covered on one podcast, but this is what for instance you see in people like volleyball players and people who've trained to do a lot of plyometrics Is they have trained themselves to disinhibit and Remove the inhibition from like really high drop jumps normally like you were me like you know It's the only way you jump off something kind of high yeah, and you hit the hit the ground is like oh shit It would just like a giant shock Where if someone is pretty nimble or athletic they drop down and they just bounce is they just land softly or they bounce right back up Sure You can see some people who are really good in plyometrics. This is a really cool phenomenon They have them drop jump off a box do a drop jump and then spring back up and the higher the box Higher their jump yeah, yeah So they actually like they could maybe they have a 30 inch vertical But you give them a drop and they can you can drop them off a 40 inch and they can go 35 or 40 inches You give them a 50 inch they can go 40 inches Yeah, I remember when when we talked about the Central nervous system That's where we yes, I do recall that now Yeah, so if you if you train that way with like dive bombing and like harnessing that stress shortening cycle You learn how to use that energy to your advantage to move the weight through space and do reps Yeah, that's cool that's good But that doesn't you're not using the eccentric the point is to use the weight as a way to stimulate Simulate the muscle in terms of force generation and then metabolic demand in the muscle Not just to get more reps So form and tempo does does matter to some degree Yeah, you know the the general they looked at them you know like between like 0.5 and Two seconds or so per rep there's no difference on average that you'll see But I'm pretty sure if you took someone and just ask them I don't think I have the I don't remember seeing the study It may have been done where like they just said go as fast as you can You'd be kind of dangerous to be honest and compared that with someone who did really controlled reps With maybe even like an infotestably short pause between between between the eccentric and the concentric So they're using muscular contract valve power as opposed to the elasticity of the muscle in the tendon and those elastic components in the connected tissue so Anyway, it'll it'll look like You're getting a lot more work out of Diabombing the weight Because you get a lot more reps doing that and That's because you're harnessing the the energy of the falling weight Into the elastic recoil that lets you bring it back up. Yes, and what what you see sometimes too is If you do repially fast like that when you come when you reach a fatigue point You'll just come to a screeching hole sure sure Yeah, so eventually eventually you you you you're in in capable of getting enough elastic recoil And then the two two sources of energy the muscular fatigue catches up and eventually boom like you just can't get it up if you just can't move the weight anymore That's scary when you see somebody benching and you can see that coming They've got the barbell on them and you're they And then they stop and they're ready to get one more and my question isn't are they strong enough to push it up But are they gonna be able to get enough bounce? You know Right right because you you can tell that the bounces what's moving the weight as much as Muscular strength yeah, where someone is slowly controlled you'll see if the key curve yeah McDonald's we didn't know if you watch what Lyle's been he's been just tearing into Mike is or tell in particular No, um about we have reps to reserve and all that but he's he makes a very important point And he's demonstrating this in in videos that have been sent to him in some of his own training That rep speed or bar speed slow is as you reach fatigue if you take a set to Muscular failure with a good slow tempo without it out There's and he has even like I think he's waiting to throw this card because there's a whole body of literature looking at bar speed And how that as associated with reps and reserve and RPE and he hasn't even called on the research I know he knows it's there he's just looking at like in the in the gym This is what sets look like and you see the person like the reps start to slow down and if you're spotting them then you're like Okay, like this person's got to control the weight And they have a grinder and then like they go here and like this is gonna be the one and then the the weight doesn't just all said fall back down on them Because Basically when you're here's the way to think of it is when you're using that recoil that stress shorting cycle It's free falling here and then it's only going up because it's been bounced back up sure It's it's in free fall on the way up to yeah, unless you have enough strength to bring it up And if you if you're requiring on the bounce to get the thing moving rather than muscular power You only get as much as you get out of that bounce. I agreed with you from the start I think that I misunderstood you but it was still nice to hear you explain it Yeah, you know I wasn't I didn't think of it as that is I've enjoyed it That would be what unless people recognize what you could just talked about Yeah, it would they would think that they're getting a the better the performance the better the gross stimulus Yeah, and if you just performance it's just the number of reps Then you know get them however you can yeah, yeah, and everyone you know not to do that Yeah, but that's some science underpinning this and this is why having an controlled eccentric From just this study and generally what you see in the literature the eccentric are important You just don't want to do too much of them So it's it's an a measured amount And that's sort of the the bottom line here is that it's all a matter of finally like and so this is why this slide the last one was up was but don't avoid the negatives So I think this takes us to the summary here. All right, let me grab that last one That is up So this is just I'll just kind of read through this but this is sort of the basic idea We're talking about training finding the training dose for an individual so Damaging mount damaging bouts so the ones we get sore from They may not set in motion the protein balance in a trajectory that produces growth So you do too much this is from that very first study you may be just using up your protein synthetic reserves to balance the breakdown that you've avoid that you caused Yeah, and you can avoid this view this protective effect this repeated about effect by easing Just a misplaced I'm just telling the easing into a program I didn't even correct easing as a I frankly that's a word easing to go east So easy into a program you can you can still get the growth of you just in a couple extra weeks or so Work your way into it maybe even less Training variety the change in the reps the second figuration can alter training volume and muscle protein synthesis But this might not be to your advantage So in that for last study the training the the muscle growth was inversely correlated Your training volume when they buried things around and this increase the training training volume So the variety is great that's awesome for making training fun and that's super important But if you end up doing too much In that for that for an individual that can go against you yeah, so more importantly look at the big picture Training volume slash frequency how am I spelling was awful? I can't type I can spell I just can't type Training volume slash frequency when training failure That's worth noting they were taking these sets to failure are the parameters of greater import here So in that study comparing five times versus two or three times a week There was a substantial difference between those two conditions Yeah, and he saw substantial difference for many people in terms of how much growth they made on one versus the other So if you're thinking about like what do I really want to experiment with to figure out if my program is working Think first about total number of sets and how many times you're doing that over a week or several weeks So frequency or total training volume and and maybe even how you distribute that versus Well, I'm gonna do you know I'm gonna do muscle rounds. I'm gonna do pumps sets. I'm gonna do some of Johns and tense patient techniques Somebody restpotsets et cetera et cetera et cetera Those those things are nice and those are good those that's that's a is a form of variety which is important but if you're doing too much volume It doesn't matter. Yeah, it's just too much So you might be better off with the more simple program or or it's just a lower volume program or higher volume program So think of the big rock sort of speak so the variety in terms of the sets Is important I think For a more advanced person especially Find the exercise that work for them. It's a tour advanced training way perspective to have but Think big picture first am I doing too much like if I go in I do every cool exercise that I've seen on the people that I fall on Instagram show me You know all the weird weird things and I have lots of those on mine Yeah, just don't don't do 15 of those and it worked out right you know Yeah, it's not to just do more is better and make it all sort of funky and weird Think big picture in terms of volume and frequency And then but the last thing though to consider is Don't avoid again another type of I'm gonna correct all this stuff we can even Don't avoid the eccentric they in the right amount or a vital component of the of the grossed in this those eccentric reps Are what you want Yeah, you need to be there to some degree So As people have said and this is just the the data is there now people can see some evidence of this Is having a good control of your rep where you're controlling the eccentric is something you want to have in place And then you can then of course once you've got that as you're sort of singular unit the rep itself Then look at the big pictures of the total training volume and the frequency et cetera And the second figuration whether it's a cluster set or a drop set or Set or et cetera et cetera et cetera Gotcha, so Yeah So those are some things that I think people probably dig knowing Yeah, yeah, scientists aren't like off their rockers, you know, doing shit That's so esoteric and unpractical like stuff actually applies Yeah, I'm gonna move you a little bit here again. There we go got you centered My brain is full Scott that's some good stuff. This is the kind of podcast I feel like I want to go back and Maybe watch this one a couple times I know we we have covered some of this stuff before Uh, and I appreciate how you kind of tied it all together today And if I were to summon up from my bro perspective is this to what I've taken from it so far It would be to well as we mentioned at the end consider how I'm performing my reps But then really considering my volume Actually my my my my frequency my volume and And then from there man just how much variability there can be within that That'd be like kind of the big stuff I'm saying Yeah, and it insight to the kind of tease apart is that and this but didn't have any studies look at the Strecley is that if you if a certain how you train with what frequency you train a given amount of volume Is gonna impact how sore you get for those workouts. Yeah, yeah So I mentioned earlier you take those 15 sets and do it a spider over five sets a day for three days When it was a Friday yeah, that's gonna avoid that excessive damage that would come This is where the the topic of junk volume comes in a play sure And somewhere in there I don't think I read it but I put in the the famously he- He- quote of stimulate don't annihilate yeah, so You know, in terms of like Trying to work out for workout basis after your past that protective effect or if you're someone to get so get sore There's some sort of optimal Stimulus to Prepare yourself forward in terms of the protein balance you get each time yeah, so and this is the Don't take you to say this all the time that these are growth used to call them growth opportunities That's why he like these he trains more of a higher frequency type of training Is that you want to get find the optimal volume puller workout To create the maximal propulsive force so to speak from that stimulus The maximum of smack of adaptive propulsive force will call it there's a fancy term for you I like that I'm creating shit, you know like a hashtag that the adaptive propulsive stimulus and do that as frequently as you can recover from So and and it may be for some people and here's where he's kind of figuring this out that they do a given like a the 10 set workout for a muscle group and If you if they wait five days The first couple days are sort of in the hole they're recovering then they've got satellite cell Activity that's at role here it play here, et cetera et cetera and if they wait five days and do that every five days That gives them a greater accrued adaptive for false-off force That gives them a greater adaptation by with that volume with that spacing as Opposed to maybe the same volume but space too close together Because you see everyone what I think it varies with this muscle sort of thing It's such a fascinating topic is some people get sore you've heard people say they get sore and they're sore like 8 or 12 or 15 hours later the next day. Yeah, it's gone two days later. Oh Yeah, and some people are yeah, so some people are sore for three or four days Just kind of lingers. I'm one of those. I get sore and it just lingers for a long period of time. So that's something considered too Is you know how long or if you if you if you train really hard and dig a little bit of a hole for yourself You may come out of that in matter 24 hours. So waiting five days to do that May mean that those last three or four days between workouts are ones where you're getting ahead of the game and you're growing So let that happen don't do a workout before that's occurred Yeah, because you're wasting the The adaptation that's been sent motion from that first workout you may have just gotten back up for baseline Yeah, or you may exactly if you train too early. Yeah, you're frequently So you have to figure out will be better than like what if I cut that in half and then don't get sore at all And then I can do you know the same volume or a little bit more and this is what the data kind of shows too Is that and if you look at the twist the data around that it's been done in the reviews and met analyses is that Higher frequency training tends to allow people to train with more volume And you can imagine this too if like you tried to do 15 sets and it destroyed you you might be able to do instead of five sets three times a week Seven sets for you. Yep. Yeah, sure. So then that and that's what people find in the in the trenches And that's what the research generally suggests as well is that it permits higher training volume That you can recover from so now you're getting 21 sets three times seven in a week as opposed to 15 As long as you're recovering Getting ahead of the game before the next workout comes around You're a winner. Yeah, so the more you can get away with and still recover the better generally speaking I like it if if you're good to Finish this topic up here. I have a question for you Yes, we have that question from your patreon. Yes. Yeah. We started a patreon guys Think big bodybuilding media. We'd love any support that you would like to give I would like to make the patreon more interactive as time rolls on I figured out the message part No, so I'm able to to leave like messages to the group and I'm able to interact with everybody individually So if you do have questions for any of the shows Anybody who is a patreon member I encourage you feel free to ask me there and I'll try to make sure that we Highlight those questions to get them on this is from Dallas Paul now. Do you know who Dallas is this he does he post it? on fortitude, right? I I just I think I know him for a Facebook oh, okay. It's somewhere in the glory of social media names Okay, um It's cool name so I remember I definitely remember the name yeah anybody named Dallas period is I think that's it's it's a good name Tough name yeah, it is it's a yeah. It's a cool name. I like it All right, so Dallas has when he says uh I Been going back and listening to old muscle minds and blood sweat and gear podcasts on YouTube On