of It's Just Bodybuilding. We have questions from the YouTube questions from my Instagram. And of course, there's a few things we have to do on each episode in the very beginning. What do we ask for, Scott? Like, share, subscribe. You don't even know if they really, because we say it so repetitively like that. But seriously, if you guys do, you know, hit all that stuff, like share, subscribe, ring the bell, all that. Oh, I said your part. Sorry. But you didn't say, but you left out comment. And comment is where you put your questions in. Yeah. Just like this one today. And all that stuff helps boost us in the algorithm. You're doing good things for good people while some are good people at least for Scott and Ron. And here we go. What do we got now here? I know you said, yeah, quite a few lined up. I pulled a bunch together from the last episodes. All you guys are killing it by the way. We're getting a ton of comments lately. We're, Ron told us last episode or a couple episodes ago now. He wasn't going to be with us, but remind me what is he doing right now? Ron is on the island, moving his dad out of his old place into a new place. And he's actually driving, he's on the ferry right now coming back. And he, he was so concerned. He wanted to be on this episode. He did. We'll move it back. We can do it earlier. We can do it later. But I had already, he had forgotten to mention to us. And I had already planned the rest of my day. And you are actually heading out of town. I believe first thing tomorrow. So in order to get this done, edited and ready to rock, you kind of had to do normal time. Yeah. Plus, I think it's time. Ron should have a day off. I mean, I took a month nap of taking a few. Great. He's just like, well, I think he deserves a day. I agree. I agree. Dude, I'm excited for my trip. Maybe I'll tell you about it later. But yeah, be my first time going to England. I'll tell you that, my mom. Tell me about it now. Tell us about it now. I think the people want the questions, though. They want the questions. You have to make them wait for what they can. Okay. Guys, we do have timestamps. I always tell people we have timestamps, below if you want to skip me telling you about. But I got invited out to, it's called Fit Expo. It's going to be in Liverpool this Sunday. So dude, when this comes out, I will already be in England. Put it that way. And it's your first time over there or is it your first time over there ever? Ever. I've been to South America, Central America, like all over the Caribbean. But I have never been to like England, Europe, anywhere over there. So yeah, I'm excited, man. And the cool thing is, is that like bodybuilding's taking me there. So I wanted to go over there that was like a, it was on the bucket list to do in the next couple of years. And now what's happening? So I'm excited, man. It'll be fun. I think what's funny is, obviously there are more North American well-known pros that are on the circuit. I think just pure numbers. But when I think of bodybuilding and I think of hardcore bodybuilding, I think of the UK. Yeah. I really do and not because of Dorian, I obviously because of him. But you're going to find out when you're there training, especially if you hit some real gems. Yeah. Like it's just a different breed. And I wish more of that would rub off here. I agree. Dude, bodybuilders from over there. Like, eat sand, like, okay, how much? Yeah. Yeah. No blinking. You go, I've been to, I actually have done, I guess, posted a show and I've done a few appearances that shows over there. Local level shows. Dude, you're peeled out of their heads. Yeah. Yeah, they are. I mean, it's just another thing. So you're going to love it. Yeah. My favorite trips of the year, every year, are to England. And I wasn't able to go this year because of my anti-agit and stab situation unless I'm to have it myself with things I choose. Yeah, I'm making it. But the rules have changed. So I will actually be going over there in September as well. So nice. Nice. Looking forward to it. I'm glad you're going to love it. And don't pull a Ron and Dusty. Take some pictures. Oh, tons of, I'm doing like a whole vlog for the channel. So there's that. Nice. Good. All right. Now we can do the question. All right. We had this one from Morgan Mack. He says, um, question for the next show. What's your guys' personal opinion on facial hair while competing? So I actually talked to Steve Wynerberg about this. Back. Remember the year that Jose rocked a beard at the Olympia? I do know that you mentioned it. Yeah. Yeah. So we were standing there. And he just said to him, he's like, I keep the beard. And his thing was as long as it's kept your fun. I think the only time I personally would say you got to be a little cautious. I'm not even saying it. It's the same year. Yeah. Because part of you got to be careful saying woman though. Oh, because you can't anymore. No. Say woman can't. Man can't say it. I don't fucking the rules are a mess. We just got to monetize. But it was my fault. I started it. It's okay. That's okay because we need it too. But no. The only I would say is you don't want any facial hair to be distracting. It's the same thing with your hair. So don't be the guy that decides to be a fun idea to put a fucking lightning bolt down your long beard or something stupid. Yeah. But if you're clean, kept it and whatever or if you've got a giant beard, I would maybe even consider just pulling it in. I've seen guys actually, you're not going to cut off a four year beard because you're competing. Right. But you do something to at least keep it looking clean. You know what I mean? Yeah. That's really it. What do you think? I think what I agree with all of that. And I would say maybe it even depends on what level you're at. If you're a state level guy. And you're just trying to win like your first novice show, then you know, yeah, you might want to take some of this into consideration and be like, yeah, maybe if I have this, you know, one foot and a half beard or whatever, it may interfere. But do I want to change that just for this show? Because you might be able to still win with it. You know, if you're like, if you're the best bodybuilder on stage and this is like just a local show, I think you could have whatever beard you want. If you're like, if you have the muscle in your peeled, you're going to, it doesn't matter. You know what I mean? So if you're at a national level show and you're trying to turn pro maybe it's a little bit of a different story, that would be my thought. Yeah, I agree. You always want to think about immediate, it could possibly cost you as you get better for me. It was general X. Anyways. Alright, what else do we have here? Um, oh, I liked this one. And this is something I would love to have for your Ron talk about, because I know he had to struggle sometimes. But we will hear Dusty still. Says a question for the next show. On the previous show, there was a question about getting shredded glutes and Dusty mentioned that John Meto's eight water to get into insane conditioning. I don't remember you saying that, but I could picture you saying that. Yeah, it's awesome. Can he elaborate a bit on that story? He means very low calories for a certain period of time or indeed no calories at all in just drink water. No, so I can't, it was, I don't remember what year it was, but I think it was when he did the Arnold. Remember? Um, yeah, yeah, he literally was so peeled and we're talking like four weeks out. And he continued, because he knew, this one thing I always loved about John is he knew what he looked like. He knew what he had to bring to the table to even stand a chance. So he literally was eating egg whites with some sugar free ketchup and I want to, like one other thing for every meal. Like, so there were no fat. There was no actual carbohydrates. There was a little green stuff like that for like weeks to get in shape. The reason I brought that up in that episode was because everyone has this kick that you have to do something, you'll, you'll emaciate to nothing if you go extremely low calorie or the big thing is is you're going to screw up your metabolism. Yeah, because you bury your calories for a while. The body is far more resilient than people understand. So you, you can bury it. Now the thing that's left out in that story is John didn't start the prep there. He worked his way down, did this card, did everything and realized to get to that level he wanted to. He just kept pushing the envelope and seeing he could and he wasn't losing size. That's the magic, as you have to walk that line and make sure you're ironing yourself. Because on the flip, even though I just said it's hard to catalyze muscle, I've done it. 2011, when I was getting very financials, I told a seeker. Before we started, I just want to be the most shredded guy there. That was my concern, that's what I wanted. And so we blindly were grinding for conditioning. And I could remember, I'm a finished story, I was peeled. I mean, I'm a fucking peeled. I looked way down in size, my legs were down. I didn't even realize it until I saw the pictures. I mean, I was amaciated, but I was shredded. But I remember it's actually how I met Jose Raymond. I get done, I come off stage, I got second call out, which was very disappointing, following the announcement that I was going to show hoping to win and putting that much into it. I hear from a distance to sky, you were fucking shredded. That's the answer. And it was Jose Raymond, it was before I knew him or anything like that, I don't give a shit what you place. You were the most peeled guy on that stage. I can picture this. I'm talking about it. Anyway, the whole fucking show, like he was just going off. But it hit me the next day that at one point during the prep, on a lap pulled down, I'm always the second highest run for the knee pad. Yeah. And I had to bring it down. Yeah. It never, it didn't click in my brain that I didn't get shorter. Yeah. And my bone structure didn't change. So the only thing that would make that come down is if I'd gotten smaller. And then I actually looked at some pictures side by side from five weeks out. And like three days I wrote for a left. And I'm making up numbers to people do this, but just give me an idea. If I got 1% harder, I got 9% loss of size. Yeah. It wasn't a good trade. That's the key. As John was watching both as he was coming down, we had a one track minor just getting peeled. And the funny thing is, I do not regret any of it. And the reason is this, and I know people would hate me for saying this. I think my five weeks out would have won that show. Yeah. Yeah. But you really looked for it on them. And the reason that would have been a problem is no one would know my name. Because I would have won that show after one good year of people knowing I was coming on show, I would have then been a terrible pro, and disappeared. Instead I got four years of being a guy that was in the hunt and people knew it was coming. And I think that's an area that I've kind of derailed on, but that people misses. There is great things for your career. And I say, we're not just on a stage, but as creating a name for chasing that pro card and being in the mix. Because if I don't want that show and then went and done a pro show the following year, I got invested in the following year. Probably got dust. I was kind of at the end of my genetic ability, just turning pro. I got three years of people knowing who I was and following along and seeing me chase the pro card because of that. But that's a little derail from the question, but just something I think people should think about. Because I have noticed a lot right now, for example, like junior nationals just took place. And there were three heavy weights. You know, three light heavy weights and one heavy weight. That's it. Because they're not giving out pro cards and no one wants to do a show if there's not pro card anymore. That's a shame. It's a game. It is just to be that way. You know, I guess it's rubbed off on everybody, but it used to be, you know, we would do the junior shows to get the experience and get in front of the judges that we would be judged at when we go to that next level. I, and I liked that. But then I, I guess we did that out of a level of respect for the sport as the way I feel. You know. But I also liked to point out, um, now that I've completely, do you know from the question? Completely. I'll leave that. That won't you look at who's won that show and tell me it's not worth doing. Yeah. Some nobody named Phil Heath won it one year. Another nobody named Evan Sett's Pony. Oh, some guy. I don't know. Maybe you heard him Kevin the Roni. Yeah. On that well. But hey. Yeah. I'm worried about it. Brett Welkin won that show. He was in classic. So, yeah. He was in. He was in. And I also, I will tell you this and I believe this to my soul. I did junior and the ourselves and it gave me a name. Yeah. And I went to the USA and they were looking for me. Okay. Yeah. Because there were, I want to say 13, maybe 16 guys in a super heavyweight at the USA. Is that here? And to give an idea. We've tried to before the top 10 are all pros now. So it was deep. I think had I not been introduced. I might not have been noticed quite as quickly. And might have fallen down a place in or two because there's new guy with a Mohawk looks pretty good. Who's that? Versus. Oh, that's the guy who won junior national six weeks ago. Yeah. I could see that. So I do think that that's important. I'd like to see more people start doing those junior shows because I thought it was sad. I'd like to think of that. Like there were three callouts when I did junior national as super. Yeah. You know, it's wild to think that there was no one there to beat. You know. But any who, so yeah, to answer the question, the point was just, you can go extremely low calories if need be and your metabolism will be fine. All right. I'm going to move on to the next one here. Kevin, he says, do you guys have any tips for keeping perfect form at a rep tempo when approaching failure? Is failure when the muscle can no longer move the weight by any means or is failure simply when you cannot perform another perfect rep? It's a good question. It's a great question. This one for me, you're going to have a couple of reps that aren't flawless. I mean, hell, not a minor, but. But if you even if you're strict for him, person, I think you're leaving growth on a table. If you won't give yourself a little momentum or a little inertia or a little something additional to move the weight one or two more times. Yeah. The key here is don't get sloppy to the point that you're not even hitting the right muscle and the biggest one is don't put your body in danger. If your back starts rolling for example on a dead left or a bent row, you're done. It doesn't matter how you pick it up. It's dangerous. But stopping in the moment they're not perfect, you're well before failure in my opinion. What do you think? I would agree completely. And it's a balance. It's hard to, it's hard to, I think, to explain that. It would be way easier to see it if you were training with Kevin, you know, and he were to actually, and you were to tell him like, hey, get one more or, okay, cut it there. You don't want to get yourself into a position where you're using everything in your body to move the weight. I would say this. I'll using some momentum or some body English is going to be beneficial. If you can still hit that target muscle hard, you know, if you feel like, oh, it's all in my traps now or whatever, you know, it's like you pass that line. Great. Great. All right. I guess we got a bunch of them. We had a bunch of just good comments overall too. All right, Gavs has one for us. She says, oh, what's the, we're talking about lifting straps and wrist wraps? It's what's the, the best brand type of lifting straps? I ask because I hate the normal ones that you have to mess around trying to wrap them around the bar once you've got the first one locked, et cetera. I've seen the type dusty wears in his videos, look like they're a lot easier to use. Are they Versicrips? Versicrips? Versicrips. Okay. Yep. And here's the things I have a lot of people last. I was always a strap guy. Just the basic, you know, canvas strap. Yeah. And I broke a couple pair with while training. And I just decided, I was, I was Mr. like I'm never going to Versicrips. I was like, all right, let me just see what these things are all about. And I tried them once and it were a little weird the first day or so. Yeah. And now I haven't owned a set of straps since I bought my first set of Versicrips. No kidding. I love them. But that being said, I think that you have to try them and see for yourself. I think a lot of people that are old school as well would try the Versus and be like, nah, I need to feel that my hand. You know, I just, for me, it was, it came down to, I was breaking them. Because they, they would like break almost, I know where I go. I own my stores and I sold them. I sold the regular straps. So I was never like letting them go too long and they broke. Yeah. They must have freed just enough and they would just snap. And it's like, okay. This is an injury waiting to happen. Let me try these other things. I was also going to look into those, like some leather straps as well if need be. Because I know those really just stretch. But the Versus I love and for people who aren't good with straps, like you said, wrapping them around, you can't fuck them up. I mean, you give them a quick bend before you even go up to the bars so that they're leaning into your hand already. Yeah. Put your hand up there and you're good to go. What do you use? I use leather straps. I, I, I, I, I move to the leather ones. I can't remember maybe four years ago and I love them. Now, I think I think the whole strap thing, it's something you got to get used to to begin with. Like nobody ever walked in the gym and they could use a lifting strap, like perfectly the first day, you know? I'd say it takes like three months of consistently trying before you get the groove of it, you know? So there's that. I do feel like the Versus strap, Versus grips are a little bit easier. Like that learning curve is a little bit less. Because you just have, it's, it's just less. It's less to wrap. But I think once you get good with straps, they can really work well for you. But yeah, if you're dusty and you're lifting a ton of weight and you're snapping them, then maybe do something else. But those legs, you're awesome. That's what I guess that's funny. So that's what I was going to switch to because they last forever. They do. They do. They just want to last you forever. I'm on my second pair now and it's because I lost the first pair. And they, yeah, so they've lasted with heavy weight. And you know what I like about a more than the canvas is because they have that stretch. When you crank them down, you can get a really nice, there's extra stretch. So you get it, you know, you get it wrapped all the way. And then you can crank it a little further with the strap. Yeah. And when they're, when you're sweating and they get kind of damp, then they work you can better, you know? That ends up being a disadvantage. It's advantage. Yeah. All right. Let's see what else we got here. Oh, the second question. I don't know if I got his first one though. Sorry, Mr. Scottie T21. Can people who leave the volume, the number level. Oh, this is, this isn't referenced a run. I think talking about turning the TV to can people who leave the volume number level of the TV radio music, can they be trusted? This is a run question. I think that's a great question though. Round would have like a big philosophical, you know, yeah, there would be a reason. I'll figure it out. Yeah. It's almost like it's something he's pondered for six years. And he was just waiting for someone to ask him this question. Let me ask you that way when we're on ask that. What would, what would Ron say? What would, how would Ron answer this question? You know what, let me, let me just, I'm going to try something real quick. You're going to call him? Yes. Call him. Yes. We need to phone in on this to answer this. I got to call a friend. Let me see if you'll answer this could be fun. All right. Let me see if he's Ron. He's going to think something's wrong. Like oh shit, something went really bad with his. I didn't even call him. Could you? Because you don't call. See if he answers. There goes. Let him know. Be sure to let him know we're on the show here. Before you swear. Yeah. What's going on, dear? Hey. So here's the thing. We're on the show that you're not on because you didn't want to be here. He had better things to do. And there's a question that I think is for you. So we need to ask you what you would do. So you're going to be on the show even though you're not on the show. All right. So. I'm going to have to be here for a great hour. But I can play along. All right. So this is the question is being greedy. Well, this part doesn't matter because we answer his first question. Here's the question. Can people who leave the volume number slash level on the TV, music, radio, etc. Be trusted. And that was written for you, I think, based on you adjusting the volume and things on the previous show. What are your thoughts? So there's a thing. They're saying it. You can be trusted. I need to put my hand up person be trusted. If they leave the volume number, the level on TV, music, radio, etc. Can they be trusted if they do that? If they leave it. It's like what do you mean? Leave it. I don't. I don't. I'm not going to talk about it more like I don't get the question. As we're in, so I guess I'm going to change this question. Yeah. If they're adjusting the music and the volume on your music TV, etc. When they want to talk, can you still trust them as people? Oh, I see. Very clear now. I trust myself with the volume. Yeah. I trust that I have a better grasp of what volume should be than almost everyone else. I should decide to volume up the music and the TV display. I think that I'm very comfortable taking charge of that. And I don't think other people can be trusted with that. But they're going to turn down my entertainment to talk. There's going to be a fundamental problem with friendship. This friendship is over. Why? You were adjusting the volume on my television and or radio. Yeah. Yeah. This is a real foundational issue. This is a relationship at that point. I follow. And this is why we had to call you at the airport trying to come home. Because I know only Luke could answer this. It's one of the major points of finding a light partner. There have to be a third barrier to their willingness to think they can take over the volume. Well, and I'm glad that you're working on that with Emily a little more every week. It's a slow process. We've really, really come a long way. It's a relationship. It's a perfect QC. Generally, thanks that there's something she'd tell me that this morning for... It's a long time to be turned down on a particular song. But she's getting better at deciding when to strike. You know, like the moment has to be strategically planned a little better. She's improving a lot. That's great. And when she's not turning that shit down during 1979, that's good. No, no. She's aware of the list of more. More. More. How important is this song for Wallace? Alright. Well, we missed you on the show and we're having Dre a back on as well because she was phenomenal. And I'm exceptionally upset that I missed Dre on the show and I can't wait to have her back on. Awesome. Save trap. There you go. See you. Okay, thanks. That was the answer we needed. You know, we thought it'd done that one. I was having trouble following the question. I was too. Figured it out and then, and even if he didn't figure it out, I was happy with what he thought he figured out. So we're good. Yeah. Jerry says, Why is this show so long? Gone are the days when there were 40 minute episodes. He's doing a lot of much Jerry for the first thing. I don't want to think that out. You might have missed part of his name. I didn't want to say the first part. I just didn't. I just needed that part. Oh, hey, this month you have to mention it. That was that was in reference to he was joking. There was somebody else who was saying that our shows are too short. So yeah, that was actually flawless because I remember that last week and I'm like, We would. Yeah, we can't use everyone's got. You can. Oh, and this was just another fun comment. Rick James supposedly had two dumpsters of coke go through his nose. That's a lot of cocaine. It is. It makes me wonder how much money that is. I lot. Yeah. Figure like if that much is, you know, 20 or whatever, 50,000. Do you have any weird like things like that that that is me everywhere we go like I go somewhere. Yeah. And I'll be I get a restaurant and Mike. I wonder how much the leases on this place. Do you think you know, yeah. Yeah. I start breaking things down trying to figure out how they're making money because we're certain things that I find really weird. We went last week because you get frio. Yes, I'm a big fan. Yeah. There was a toy store. Next store like a no name toy store and I'm like, huh. Is this I mean most likely money laundering. Yeah, it's got to be a front. That's what I was like. I immediately like we had this conversation while eating our frio, which was $87. Yeah. And you know how they were making their money at the frio. I was doing this. You know what, you know, the first time I went to a frio place. I don't know why I do this, but we walk in real quick and I just took my wallet and I grabbed a 20 and I walked in to get myself. And the girl I was with Afroio. Yeah. I walked back to the car because the 20 didn't cover it. Holy shit. Yeah. I was like, I need to open a fucking frio place. Yeah. It's like everywhere buying this shit. Yeah. And obviously all these years later I'm still buying it. Yeah. It's amazing stuff. So there is that. Yeah. But yeah. I thought that was interesting. That's those type of little details you have for you're like, I know what this is. Another suggestion for the show here, Bryce. He says, is there any chance of finding a body builder who is or was a chef? I'd love to listen to 90 minutes of dusty swapping recipes with him. I would love to have a chef body builder on. I think anyone who's actually followed me that is a chef or even a good cook. Yeah. Gags at the thought of me being any form of other things. I think what some people miss or maybe they do catch is when I do the cooking with dusty videos. Yeah. The point is I hate when people say, I don't know how to cook. It's not that fucking hard. Okay. You find a couple and like you, I literally season with like five things. Okay. I know I like. And I can put them on pretty much anything in the work. You know, so it's it's funny to me because in people will eat my food that are, obviously other body builders, but they'll be like, this is great. Yeah. I'm like, I have no idea what I'm doing. You just kind of throw some on taste. You're like, that's good. You know what I mean? Like it sounds like fucking complicated. I would love to actually be good at cooking because I think you can kind of get that cross over where you can. That's where most people have an issue. I have people tell me that I'm bored of what I'm eating. I'm like, will make the chicken a different way. Yeah. And then like, I don't know how I'm like, do you have internet access? You know, the same thing used to email me. Google it, bitch. Fuck. Yeah. I mean, I do that all the time. It's like, we'll find a recipe of something that's good in town. And I'm like, let's see if we can make that at home. Okay. And like, Google it and just see. And usually I end up going back to eat there 700 times anyways. But I enjoy the challenge. Yeah. And you know what I think just being creative. We don't we're not creative with our food because we're just thinking like, I have to eat this six times. I'm just going to cook a bunch of chicken is easy as I possibly can. And then I'm going to complain about it, but you know, whatever. And we don't think about it. But yeah, I think if you stop it, you know, women are better like female athletes, female bodybuilders, people in the fitness industry. They're better at cooking I think in general than men are because they actually take time. And they're like, oh yeah, I have this fresh thyme that I put in here. And it's like, what? What is this? Yeah. Yeah. I know thyme in UK. So you used to put that never mind. Do you remember that? I only did. Oh, do those like a cream. You put on your abs. And then you put, um, you take like, uh, saran wrap and wrap it around you. Oh, and then that was supposed to the dumb shit. I used to do all that shit before I realized if you just died, it really fucking hard to get shredded. Yeah, they used to do like the preparation age to yeah, same thing. This was like preparation age, but somebody was smart enough to make a little company to make some side money. So it's a dumb bodybuilders. Okay. I better get rich to fun fast. I'm sure you made some money for a little window before every woke up. Yeah. All right. What else do we have here? Question for the next show. How about starting a 12 week cycle with a two week mini cut scenario? Planned 12 weeks test E 250 milligrams of Tony 20 milligrams of anovar on training days. So I guess the 250's once a week, anovar is on training days. Only first cycle sitting pretty currently at sitting currently at 85 kilograms, 18% body fat, five, nine, uh, no plans on competing ever in life. Just want to have a look in feel buff, but not fat for me as nanny 15% my abs pop below that. He says blow that though he, we feel like shit. I got it. I don't understand that though for me as nanny 15% my abs pop below. Oh, so if he gets lower than that, you feel bad. I'm thinking of starting the cycle with a two week mini cut utilizing your himbine in clan training intensity would remain the same and then would ramp up the calories in the your him quit the your himbine in clan in the third week. Okay. He's also saying he wants to bring up his chest. So there's a lot of, like a noise in this. Yes. I agree. So here's the thing. If you're at 18% body fat, you're two fucking fats to be trying to grow as far as with food. So my first thing would be come down in body fat. Two weeks, basically what he just said is he wants to do a two week mini cut to come down, which isn't enough time to do anything. And then go back up for ten weeks if I'm reading it right. Yeah, to grow. The problem is your body fat's too high and the drugs don't matter. I love that your dose was low. That makes me happy because everyone wants these crazy dose on their first cycle. That is plenty of drugs for the dose. The animal and that's fine. How do you do the test alone and that'd be fine. But I think you got too much thought into it. I would either lean down now with that drugs or start laying down with them because by default you will put on some muscle mass just because you're running for cycle. I think we talked about this before. My first second I think I have probably 15 pounds taking an amp of pre-mo a week. Yeah, I could see that. You know, I mean it was just nuts how well it worked. But if it were me for you, I mean I could see that for work. If it were me, I would die it down first. And I would get down to 12% I think it's in his head also that any below 15% feels like shit. There's no reason for that your body doesn't need that much body fat to feel okay. So your diet is somehow the problem and how you're feeling for sure or your brain. I think a lot of people in Scott, you work a lot of guys too. They have this thing in their head that they're getting weaker or they don't feel good and it's always way too early. Yeah, I'm like, no, that's just your brain. You're not even tired and you're surely fat enough to feel fine. And your calories are barely, you know, below maintenance. So we're good. Yeah, I would just take a completely different approach. If I say I'm I lose some body fat, then look at the cycle, then come up. But again, even when you flip to gaming, just above maintenance. 18% for a guy who wants to look good and feel good. Blown it's just too heavy. What do you think? Totally agree. And two weeks isn't going to do anything. It's going to be enough to lose some water. So if you, in maybe you're going to diet real hard. Of course, you're taking cleanse. So you're probably going to lose some water weight with that. The scale's going to go down. But I guarantee you this. If you crank that diet for two weeks and you drop 10 pounds, I guarantee you that you lost zero pounds of fat so far. Like you've just gotten yourself depleted and now you're in a position where you can start to lose the fat. You know, that's really all you've done. And now you're going to start adding the food back in. And so really you're just going to start from a drier position. But then two weeks later, you're going to be eating up again. And it's like really you're going to get no advantages out of two weeks. I agree. He should go on longer diet than a mini cut and that that should be the focus. And you know what, he could probably if he's doing this all naturally so far, he could probably die it down naturally. Get down to 10% 12, you know. Get down to 10% and then start your cycle. You'll learn a lot about your body in that time. And that gear's going to do so much more for you. You're going to be in a lot more sense of the position. And I bet you that if he feels like crap under 15% that he's dieting too hard. That it's a longer process. You can't do everything in, you know, in two weeks. So it's this isn't like a race. You just need to systematically get leaner, you know, to get drop all that water weight at first and then just shoot for two pounds a week. Yeah, which is a ton. Yeah. I think I got a couple more here. Um, all right. This is a dusty. I'm an OG fan, my man. I was just watching some of your old cooking, more of the cooking videos. I'm telling you to bring back. Which I love. I don't know why, but I get comfort from watching them. Anyways, I was wondering, do you still use as much splendor as you did back in the prep days? Were you using a lot of splendor back then? Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Like what you've got was. Uh, if I was making like my green, like I used to make caramelized green beans, I'd put like eight in each serving. That's all. Yeah, it's going to be awesome. Well, and then I would drink four. So I do, I do two coffees from Starbucks a day, which was just four shots for espresso. Yeah, but four splendent and two sweet and only two of those. Okay. Yeah. I mean, I would buy a thousand at a time from Costco and go through them. I do not use as much anymore, but it's because I don't cook the same way more. Um, number one, I don't need as much, but also, my obsession again when I was competing was I was like the anti bodybuilder. I never understood why you would want to make your food taste like shit. I got to peel that in my mind. I always made my food taste good. It was, it mattered to me. Like I needed it. When I was dieting, I put more effort into my food than the off season. Okay. Because I'm not going to go without flavor for 20 weeks. Because I used to like long reps. Um, so I would just make my food taste good. I don't use as much blended, but just because I don't eat the same way anymore. And I have found actually a company that makes two of my meals a day. Um, they're awesome. By the way, I got to show them to you. It's called SC fuel meals. Okay. But it's not like, but like you wouldn't get ready for show one unless you're a macro person. Because they're, they're, they're not like chicken rice broccoli. You know what I mean? Like after training, I had beef in Chaladas. Ooh. It had 39 grams of protein. And the cool thing about them, which I will tell you, I tested them because I was psychopath. They, they weigh all of their food after it's cooked. Okay. Yeah. And they had a, they have a meal that shrimp and rice and whatever. I weighed everything separately. Okay. I was impressed. I was like, hi. Okay. Because I'm not guy. I was like, you really though. Do you really? So, but a lot of me was like, couldn't do that, but that one I could. But I used those because truthfully, I, I, I eat out way more than any human should. And I spend a ton of money eating out. It's expensive to eat. Oh, I want it. Yeah. So, by having these, I just did the math on like an average person. So, I would be doing 20, 20 bucks a day in these meals, which is obviously a lot. Yeah. But I, when I eat out, it's closer to 35 a day. Okay. Yeah. So, it's just, just in those two meals. So, it's substantial to flip those out. But to answer the question, wholeheartedly, if I'm cooking and if I was still eating away, you do yes. I love smart guy. Stuff is amazing. Give her a cherry stevia? Yes. That stuff is not amazing. Okay. So, that's what I thought too. Levels of stevia. I know that. Don't accept me. Some other ones. The only thing he sold me on, and you're going to have to help me remember. Not drag and fruit. What the fuck? Something fruit that, that was a sweetener that's really expensive. Fuck. I don't know. Anyhow, someone that's watching this is going to comment below. Kind of a little bit of what it was. But it's some sort of something fruit that was actually very comparable. And I used to do a lot of unsweetened tea in throw sweetener in it. Yeah. And don't say got me on that. And that actually works. Trinitrition has it. It's called something fruit. I've helped absolutely no one until this person right here. Tell us what it is below. Thank you. Here's my take on stevia. I didn't like it at all. Like it initially. I didn't like it in Victoria uses it because it's natural. It's from a plant versus Splenda, which, you know, at the end of the day, it's probably fine too. It was the way I've got it. But it's trying to go ahead. Yeah. You know, but I got used to it. And now I could do stevia. It's kind of like when do you remember when diet soda first came out? It was like, oh, it's too sweet. But then you get used to it. And it's like, now I'd rather drink a diet coke than a regular. I drink coke zero normally, but you know what I mean. Yeah. I think I think. Can I hear it? Oh, yeah. I'm used to your second to well, y'all have the dog. I thought I liked it. I think there's that. So I moved to stevia, but yeah. I got one more here. All right. Oh, this is a fun one. Taylor asks us. You guys have any juicy, interesting or funny trend stories. Uncontrolled libido, coin insane in the membrane, wanting to snap while driving. Stuff like that. Okay. Yes. And he says love the show. Well, first. Do you? Scott. I, um. I'll tell you what. I remember the first time I ran trend was not a pleasant experience. I was like, it was, I don't think there was like any decisive moment where things were like, oh, man, that's, you know, bad. That was my halo experience, but and I think I told you guys that one. But yeah, you know what, man? Here's what I learned. And this isn't a funny story. But I learned that I do, I have a story. I can tell you about somebody else. But here's what I learned is that I just dove right in with a bunch of trend. The first time going off the message boards. It was a bad experience. Next time I was like, you know, I'm going to try just tiny, tiny bit of trend. And I slowly ramped it up to a standard dose. And through that process, I did okay with it. And it didn't affect, it doesn't affect my sleep last time I took it was for Contest Prep. No, I ran a little bit since then, but you know, it doesn't affect my sleep or anything. No, no, I'm just super chill on it still. Right. What, what is your story? The story you do have. It wasn't you. Well, okay. So don't say any names. Just have no full names with addresses like last time. I have pulled this story in the past. It was a client. I've had two scenarios that I've had clients that unbeknownst to me had anger issues that I didn't know about. Nobody told me about. And they probably shouldn't have run trend. But they wanted to run trend and they ran trend. And they didn't want to do this one guy was just such a piece of work. And he, it just, it was the worst man. I remember sending him an update and telling him, What was it? There was two instances that were just like over the top. One was, I said, hey, send pictures. We're probably going to do a cheat meal on Saturday or no Sunday. Okay. And he sends the pictures. And I say, whoa, you know, you're actually really depleted. You just want that cheat meal up. You either have it today or tomorrow. And he said to me, and we're like four weeks out, three weeks out from a show. And he wrote back and he said, you know what? I'm really, and he was a nice guy before this. He said, I'm really sick and tired of your bullshit. You told me Sunday and now you're telling me Saturday. Make up your mind. Wow. You go in my your pictures. Another time. Do you think you're joking at first? Because I would think that it's always at that to me. I would assume they were joking. I would like laugh out loud and send back to them. I think that's always not joking. But I just feel like I would think he was because like, Who the fuck would say that? All right. So what else was the other occasion? The other one. He had a two-thapses. And this is a couple of weeks or two later. Now we're two weeks out from the show. He has to go in and get the doctor put some, says the doctor is putting him in an antibiotic. And I can't remember. I think it was a moxisillin. I had said, hey, we're getting really close to the show. It might have been like 10 days out. It's like we're getting really close to the show. Ask your doctor, see if you can put you on a moxisillin. Because I knew that a moxisillin was going to be less likely to cause water retention issues than a lot of other antibiotics. And he wrote me back and he said, you know, you're my coach. You're not my doctor. I will take my doctor's advice and use what he tells me to take. Cool. I didn't fire him. I didn't fire him. And you know I didn't fire him. Because if I did, and I was a new coach at the time, if I had fired him, it would have given him the opportunity to complain. And tell him that I tell everybody that I bailed on him at two weeks out. So we did have a talk. And I told him I was like, listen, we don't have to be front. I got on the phone with them. I was like, listen, we don't have to be friends. But I'm going to see you through this prep. You know, I'm going to check in when you're supposed to check in. And we can leave it at that. And it was just from there. We did the prep. And parted ways. He actually came back after that. And he was like, hey man, you know, I really, you know, I'm going to check in. I'm going to check in. And I'm going to check in. And you know, I really, you know, I wanted to let you know, man, that I, you know, I, I don't even think he said he apologized. But he's like, I was wondering, you know, would you work with me for my offseason? And I was like, hey, man, you know, I'm really glad that you could recognize, you know, the issues and stuff. And no, I'm not going to work with you. Get the fuck away from me. You're so nice. Yeah, exactly. Get the fuck out. You know, it's funny about the abscess tooth. So I had an abscess tooth during a prep. Yeah. And it was during, um, it was during a prep for my, my junior ass was the first year. Yeah. And so I went to the doctor and, you know, the, the dentist and he was like, okay, we can do this and this. And he's like, but I've been after whatever he had to do. And he was like, but, you know, you're not going to the eat for a couple of hours. I'm going to do blah, blah, blah. And I was like, what was the other option? He was like, there's no option. But I'm just going to be pulled the tooth out. And he was like, what? So can you just pull the tooth? And he was like, yeah, but you don't have a tooth. We can just do this. And I was like, I'll buy a tooth later. Pull the tooth out. And he looked at me like, he was so confused. And so I was like, we're going to do this or what? And he's like, you want me to pull it to that one. Yeah, I have to eat in like 45 minutes. And he was like, okay, so pulled by tooth out. Fucking pulled that thing out. Did what he had to do. So it would stop bleeding. And yeah, I got it fixed about three months after the show. Did you get that next meal in? That's what's really important in this story. Of course I did. I was so irritated that he was like, there was, you know, how when you get to end of a show and you don't have time for anything. A bullshit. Yeah, anything. Including the bullshit. Yeah. Wouldn't pulling the tooth out be faster today. Because at three months, when I'm satisfied, I'll deal with whatever has to be done. It's not a front tooth. Yeah. Yeah, there you go. Yeah, they shit out. So yeah, that was that. You could smile on stage at that. Yeah, no. Back to the question though. Very much just like you. I really believe that most for the most part drugs make you more of who you are. Yeah. When I was blasting, I knew I was growing. My training was off the charts. I was in the best mood all the time. Yeah. And it's, I mean, I never, I mean, and you could ask anyone a friend, someone I dated and no one would ever say there was a time that they were like, oh, when you took this, you were bad. But I will say the only thing I've ever done that caught me off guard was Halo. I didn't do anything, but I realized. Yeah, me too. I was like, oh, like, I felt this urge to go off the fucking shame for like, over something that yeah, I would upset me any time, but would never, I mean, my brain went to an elevation point. It was like, maybe I will kill this guy with his own bag. Yeah. Hang them off the side of a fucking building. So everyone else knows, don't ever do that again. You don't ever show up like, off. And I remember the thing I know, oh, okay, Halo's a different thing. Yeah. Yeah. And so I like, when I'm explained to people with my vast drug knowledge, I'm like, imagine taking a cheese grater to everything that matters on the inside of your body, because I think that's what Halo's doing, because I'm so angry on the outside that something, yeah, I mean, there's a reason that that's a two-weeker. But I will also say, and this is something I tell clients that do have, if they know their edgy, the moment I realize that, I reminded myself of moving forward. Any time something that upset me, I'm like, am I mad? Where's the drug? Yeah, you can control it. Put it to sleep immediately, just by, you know, how mad should I be about this? Probably not so much. Okay, fun. And I could just kick it down, you know, because you edgy for sure. So if you ever take Halo, and you're not edgy, it's fake. Right, right. Yeah. That's just a fact, I'm sorry. So I think, I think, trend, because you was talking about trend, I think trend is in the mainstream now. I watched a gun YouTube channel the other day, and they had this guy on, who was just a friend of theirs, and he was a bodybuilder, and he was like, hitting this, hitting this dummy that they were going to shoot. Like acting like he was like, right raging out, basically. You know, and they said, they said, like, oh, they made a joke of it. They're like, oh, yeah, we have this make a wish foundation for bodybuilders. They said, this is Tony, over to his name, and they're like, he had one too many trend, but Tony sandwiches. These are like, people have nothing to do with bodybuilding. Yeah, but they recognize. Yeah, they knew trend, they knew the term, you know? Yeah, I saw that, and I saw another guy who was just done like a podcast that had nothing to do with bodybuilding. He was like, yeah, I tried trend, and he had a really good analogy. He said, when you take trend, it's like, once you're on it, you're the main character. That's what trend is. He's ready. He's like, right now, I like that one. That's actually fantastic. And he was like a non-bodybuilder. He was just some like dude, you know, who tried it. He's like, yeah, trend is the main character. You take trend, and instantly you're the main character. That's actually like, I'm so glad you said that. Isn't it perfect? But I'm going to now, from now on, I'm going to be like, okay, and then add 300, 300, 300, 300 main character. Yeah. Oh my god, that's fucking good. People can handle being the main character. Some people can't, I guess. And maybe that's why I never noticed trend because in my brain, I'm always the main character. Oh, it's not always my turn, my bad. I didn't realize. Yeah. Oh, that's good shit. All right. So where are we at? Where are we at with time here? That's all I had. That's all I had. I think we've successfully pulled off guys, girls. We're sorry Ron isn't here, but sometimes the best way for you all to realize how important he is. The glue and the spine to this whole thing. Yeah. And then we have to take him off the show so you guys realize, but Adam, I said that quieter, so I hopefully don't lose money every time I say it. Yeah. So yes, and that's it. Scott, you are heading off. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Actually, it'll actually be Wednesday first thing, but I won't have time to add it. So yeah, tomorrow's like just all packing, packing all day. All that. Awesome. We're super updated. Lots of pictures. Keep the Instagram flowing. I'll do my best. So I can live. I haven't been over there for over two years. So okay, you owe me. I don't know how that affects you, but you owe me. So. All right, guys, girls, everyone. Thanks for listening again. Until next time. It's just body. All right. Got it. Awesome. Have a good trip and enjoy. Yes sir.

Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building. I'm Big Ron Parlo and of course Dusty Hanshah and The Producer, Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. And remember, I am mutant.com, but I am mutant.com, get your all in, get your mind FK, get your big greens. Big greens, yes. Big greens. Hardcore ISO. I have hardcore ISO, the new name. Change it in. Yeah, yeah, that's why throughout I was trying to remember to make sure to get that new name in their hardcore ISO instead of ISO surge, they changed it. Same product. And everyone should get on the gear. Everyone. All the gear. All the gear. Okay. Remember Big Ron and Dusty are your codes. Save money, avoid people. Scott. That's going on today. What is the news? The news is the Tampa Pro. I mean, I got to tell you that there are so many people that I've talked to over the weekend. They were just so freaking pumped about this show. I don't know about you guys. Did you guys hear about like, there was a lot of energy around this kind of test. We should do it. We should do it right in honor of even bodybuilding and break it down. Just like you said for maybe really skipping third place or four. Making attempts. We randomly pick eight numbers to skip before we down show. Yeah. Random number generator. A people were going to skip. Okay. Well, first of all, the Jordan Quinton showdown. Oh, yes. So obviously, we haven't talked about Jordan on the show really, but I've a one of my Instagram. He's like, I knew he was going to be really good. But you know, I just thought, you'll see what happens in this lineup, right? Yeah. I initially, like someone sent me, I know we didn't talk about it on the show yet, but someone sent me like a list of the names like a week ago and Lionel by Eki was on that list, right? Oh, yeah. He of course didn't do the show. I don't know what happened, but Lionel was on the list. And I just said, oh, well, if Lionel's on the way Lionel can be, he'll win. Right. But that's all the attention I paid. I didn't know what he'd been doing lately. I haven't seen him in ages, right? Yeah. And of course, he didn't do the show. So we wound up with like, I don't know, who had this showdown picked Quinton in Jordan. Like who had that as like the top two. I mean, obviously they're both great, but the lineup looked good. I will say that I had Jordan as soon as he entered, right? Because he's been working with Tuddle and what they have done in the last, like Jordan was, he's actually from like an hour from where I live, right? The changes he's made in the last two years are absurd. He's up like 30 pounds. And it's literally all dropped in the perfect places. Yeah. I mean, he looks bigger than he is. And he weighs, I mean, he was 270 something leading in. And he looks every bit of it at his size. So I sent to you guys the pictures. And I was just like, I just think he's too thick. And obviously Quinton is bananas. But Quinton crazy. And Quinton wasn't on my radar at all on the other side of the spectrum. No thought on him. I immediately said, I think what most people did outside of Jordan, I was like, well, obviously you got to you. So there's a contender for the win. And then you got Justin Shire. And he's obviously a contender for the win as well. And just to look so crazy too, and it's like his progress picks and stuff is, it's dimensions are so insane. You know? So I was with you on that. I was like, I can't wait to see him. So what I'm saying is I was a genius and also a complete moron that knows nothing about bodybuilding all the same time. I had, I mean, I saw Jordan was entered. And you know, Quinton, you know, I mean, obviously Quinton stepped up and was like, his all-time best this show. And now it's all new level of Quinton. But, you know, we had a rough year. Last time he competed, he wasn't as best at every show. He redeemed himself in Toronto there a great deal. But, you know, it wasn't what he wanted. So he just wasn't, I wasn't like thinking, oh, he's going to come in and stomp everybody. I just thought, oh, he's going to be one of the guys probably taught five first call out. But I was looking at John Jewett and John Delarosa along with Jordan because, you know, we know John Delarosa has what it takes to always be in that top mix and pull out a win. He's been to the Olympia before. I was no no surprise from to do it again. And then John Jewett is just so complete and always on and, you know, he's such a smart guy that he knows how to actually improve his physique from the voting to the next, which is something that not everyone knows how to do where is capable of doing. But John Jewett with the way he gathers data and pays attention to everything. I almost expect him to find something to improve on every time he comes out. And he looked, he did look incredible and he looked incredible. So, you know, the only way John Jewett goes backwards with a look is if, like, his tango is to shatter something like, it's not going to be his management of variables that screws up John Jewett. He's just too on that stuff. That's his department, right? Yeah. So, I knew those guys would all be in the top there, but man, that's Quentin, look, you mungus. Like, you realize that most bodybuilders are five foot eight. Like, yeah. You know, that line up and Quentin standing there opened up. It's crazy how huge he is. And I mean, Quentin was just in my gym, like, you know, a few months ago there. He was like, way over 300 pounds and super lean. Yeah. And it's just, you see him in person and you're like, oh, because, you know, there's not a lot of guys that are like the six foot plus huge. Right. Yeah. You know, and they're different. There are different, uh, a different experience to encounter in person when you know, you know, yeah. Well, let me ask you guys this one. Let me ask you guys this because I'm kind of getting off this show, but I, I'm that note with Quentin. We're just we're getting off it. We're, we've been coming back. We've been coming back. We're a Quentin. We're already off. There's one person that I could, I could see like apples to apples being a comparison. And that's Samsung. Like, I feel, well, you were playing through Jack in that combo too. Yeah. Yeah, we're in the Andrew Jack category. Yeah. Small ways. What would it be? Yeah. What would it be? Taint. Taint. Taint. Taint. Two years. Two years. Just more, more, more. Okay. More. When I, when I look at him, all I think, and this is almost everybody, but, but now that he's brought it in, we just need time. If I was a top guy, if I was beating him right now like a Jordan or these guys, I'd be like, oh, shit. But, I'm not going to get in. He's coming. And he's going to get bigger. And he obviously has figured out how to dial it in without flattening out. Because that was the knock, right? Like he hit a tough time previously with thai game. The condition, yeah, getting the condition with thai game. The thai gap to buckle. Yeah. But he was like, I mean, and I know this gets overdone. Quentin can win any show there is eventually. He isn't, he is a guy who can win an auto class. He's a guy who could win an Olympia. I really, I look at him and I mean, and that I would not have said, let's see, 72 hours ago. But now I look at him and even how he, even how he poses, something I pushed to my client, I'm sure you guys too, too, is when he was hitting his shots, I feel like he's looking at the judges and then crowd and saying you're welcome. I'm going to, I'm going to, you've been watching a lot of bodybuilding. Now let me show you another level. I mean, he is wildly impressed. I'd love to have him on the show. I think you know him well, Ron. So we should get there. Yeah, yeah, I know I'd love to get Quentin on. I've even mentioned it to him before and it's cool with it. So tell me no Scott, he'll come. I'll talk about it. I used the island of Naomi. All that's happened doesn't help me. We're going to see Quentin doing Olympia, man. He, you know, though, does he go into Texas this weekend? Oh, this is going to do an Olympia this year. Yeah, that's the house man. Oh, yeah, play this. Yeah, he looks so good here. I mean, what the fuck? So I see him when I think of him in his structure. I'm thinking guys like, well, I mentioned stamps and I'm thinking guys like Tony Freeman, Frederick McMillan, Sean Roden, you know, he's got there type of structure to him. Yeah, he's brought his backup to the knock was at his back wasn't fully there yet because he's so huge. Yeah, like, he has a lot of space to fill out. A big huge guy needs like so much muscle hanging off his back. It's like, I don't see any thai gap there. But it's the, yeah, I mean, yeah, I mean, the structure and how I mean, I don't think people realize either and now you can see in the video, but standing in front of him, he is literally as wide as a truck. Also, too, you don't get it because of how like his height and everything. But when you see him in person, his calves are like the size of my freaking head. And like obviously, I've got that. I've got that big head. I've got that calf thing because I like, you know, I was wanting crazy calves and never had him. But I still haven't even noticed him. So you see a guy like, winning in shorts and he just like, like, just to get cantaloupe's just massive, you know, you're thinking, Oh, God, this is so unfair. No one else gets it. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's what we, he has those so wrong and I don't. Yeah, just unbelievable. And I know no one cares about calves except for guys you don't have calves. That's like, I feel like it should be illegal for guys with calves to wear full length pants. Even in the waiting. Or shorts. Or shorts. Make them, make them enjoy the fact that they have calves or don't let them enjoy the fact that they have calves. I'm torn. I have a great story about that. I was helping a guy with his posing one day. And we're just trying to adjust his legs so that they would like pop, you know? And he's, well, how should I stand? And I said, you got to stand the way that makes your legs look best. And he goes, well, my legs look best in pants. And I was like, I can't do that. But I'll introduce him to the physique. Yeah, there you go. So I wanted to bring up third place. Did we do the top two? We did. We ran over. Oh my God. I'm throwing a roll here. This, I don't even know how to say names, Joseph Polassios. Is that right? I don't know. Yeah. California. Dude. Okay. I'd never even heard of him. Yeah. And I mean, I don't know if Gilco's got a video of him. They're scott, but if he does pull him up, I mean. Yeah, I think this is the guy, too, that we had an old picture of him, I guess. Andrew pulled some stuff together in the last BSG. And everybody said, that was the worst picture you could have shared. And skip tore him up on the podcast. He was like, this guy's not going to do well. And everybody, everybody. That's the, everybody. That's up on the comments for that. He looks really good. Look what I love is. He doesn't have the greatest shape, genetically. Right. But he's so massive. Yeah. He really is. And you can ignore him. And also to another lesson, I mean, I know this approach, so it's different from, you know, most people watching the show are doing like, you know, local, regional state national level shows. But, you know, the glutes shred of glutes. Oh, yeah. Like get your conditioning down. You know, I heard a guy at the gym the other day talking about posing. And he was like, yeah, but you know, my posing is really good. And, you know, I've got better shape. So, you know, blah, blah, blah. And he was talking, he was kind of speaking. I was, he was dropping. Yeah. He was trying to talk around that he wasn't shredded. Right. Okay. And obviously, that's what you do. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But I just got a size. Yeah. Like look at the glutes. You know, you can say, oh, he doesn't have the best structure. Yeah. Look at his posing to the, like he's, he's doing a pose as well. phenomenal posing right now. The side chest is crazy. Look at the size of the pecs. Yeah. Observe. Really, really, really, really, really, really good control of everything he's doing here in these shots. Yeah. Yeah. I think a lot of people were rooting for him too. Based off of the feedback we got on Blood Sweat and gear on Friday. Because there was an outpouring of people. Like, you guys did Joe Dirty. Really? You guys sucked so bad. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then obviously, like we were touched, we had, uh, as you were in fourth, um, I saw nothing off it. He just ran into a lineup. Yeah. You know, and I think that that's a thing good for the, uh, for the viewers to the compete. Like, that's why you can't base all of your success on where you place. Hmm. Because I, I saw nothing when I was like, I was like, oh, if he would have done X, he would have moved up. I'm like, not, not lineup. You know, he could have been fourth or third in my eyes. But I mean, you know, outside of that, there was nowhere to go. Yeah. Yeah. Mm-hmm. And then, uh, I wanted to, uh, I don't know Bruno Santos. But, uh, he was also obviously awesome. Very conditioned huge legs and adductors. I don't know if you guys saw his pictures. But in a front double when you're adductors, grab my eyes. That's pretty freaky. Ha ha ha. Oh, the picture. Do you have a picture? I got some video of him. Yeah. Here we go. I can't remember which guy. Oh, yeah, yeah. Is this a guy? Yeah. Yeah. Real crispy. I feel like they did a good job with the lighting at this show, too. Yeah. Well, Gilco does a great job of getting the footage up quickly all so like all day. I just rock on his page. I was like, yeah, this would be all watch. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah, he looks good. Yeah, he looks good. And if he was just a little harder, yeah, he's a threat to go up even further. You know, he and Delo Rosa were pretty, we're kind of like, yeah, like fourth and fifth there. And, uh, and Delo Rosa got six. But I wanted to mention because I don't know if you guys knew. But, you know, he's done 34 pro shows. I believe it. Yeah, I totally believe that. I remember him. Fifth place at a New York pro in 2012. Okay. Proud to say I competed with John once. Did you really? Yeah, he did the van Pro the year I did. He got second to Fouad. It was him and Fouad for like first and second. Yeah. He's been at this, like I remember him training with Victor Martinez when Victor was on top. You know what I mean? I'm great winner. Winner had to buy Danny's at midnight after the show for everybody. So, John is one of the biggest people when you see him in person. Yeah. He's like the small, like his height stature. But he is enormous. Yeah. Just absolutely huge. I love that he, you know, he went out with a phenomenal look. Yeah, he sure did. Left your body, but he probably didn't retire him. He retired. And I think that not a lot of people get to say that in a 13 year pro career. Yeah, you know. Yeah, he looked pretty great last year too, like his conditioning has been on point. But he was just definitely an old school guy in the fact that like he competed. Yeah, I just went back and looked while we were starting the show and I was like, I'm counting him up and I'm like, holy shit. Hey, you know, from my count, which could have been off by one or two since I was speeding. I had 34 pro shows and he was always in the mix. Yeah. So he did a few Olympians too, didn't he? Like at least at least a couple. Oh, yeah, no, he's got let's see here. One, two. It's good shot. Nice, most muscular. I see two Olympias. See, yep. And then the big ones, he has including the other South Africa and stuff. He's got one, two, three, four, five, five, six, seven, seven Olympias. Or I mean, okay. Oh, Arnold's. Yeah, yeah. And I believe three of those were the two or three were the US. Okay. And I mean, and he always brought there too. I mean, pro shows did he win fourth at the Arnold Classic in 2014. Yeah. And in Columbus. Yeah. Okay. He must have won at least five. Yeah. They're not listed off. I have to touch every single one. But I mean, yeah, he was he was winning shows. He's literally always in the mix. I mean, I've just randomly touched it. I've already hit three wins. Yeah. So, you know, and so he's retired. No, is he retired, right? Actually, he's the most. Yeah. That's cool. Yeah. So get the hell of a show. Yeah. He's my hell of a career. We get we could have John on. We should. Oh, I love you. Yeah. Yeah. He'd be great. And he won. He did win in New York pro one or two of those two. Oh, did he? So yeah. Yeah. He won the 2014 and I know that. Okay. Yeah. That's a big win. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Oh. Yeah. And then I love when you look as I'm just flipping through them. And it's like, you know, he had a off show in 2016. Yeah. And then I look at who beat him and you're like Dexter Jackson. Oh, there you go. Yeah. Victor Martinez. I'm like, okay. Yeah. That's the thing. I remember seeing videos of him and Victor training together. And that was like in the days of Kai being back in New York and competing. Yeah. Yeah. He's been in New York a long time. I call that that New York era. Yeah. Yeah. There was that last blast of like. Yeah. Yeah. We were really like one Morelle. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Kevin Glitch and one. Yeah. I trained with both of them at Bench. Did you really? Yeah. Kevin and one together. Kevin English incredibly strong. When you trained with him. Yeah. They did so much volume. Okay. Yeah. They were just doing. I just remember thinking like. Then one bench is like one Morelle. How many sets did we do? That was like the most volume I ever did for chess to my whole life. Yeah. I did a chess workout with Kevin English and one Morelle. And I think we did 30 sets of chess. Okay. Yeah. Just 20, six More than me. Yeah. And he's done. That's just that home by then. Yeah. And like literally third or fourth exercise was like a superset with flat bench. Okay. Like and one was doing three plates. Yeah. Yeah. And I'm like, oh, that's not manageable. Like this many sets in doing like a superset with crossovers. And he's doing three 15. Pull pull pull. And then the church. Like he was strong. Like they move on. You know that sort of like volume strength where you're not. Yeah. Yeah. He crazy weights. But you look at the poundages you're using like 20 sets in. Yeah. And you're like, oh, that's yeah. He just go all day. It adds up. Yeah. That's up. It was good. And I remember we were like 30 sets into chess and ones. One gets a phone call. He's like, I got to go my truck's done. He like leaves. Yeah. I'm like, oh, well, we've done a lot of sets. I guess he's done. Yeah. You guys didn't know is when you started that work out. They started building that truck. Yeah. He's getting a detail. There's nothing because like getting a detail. Yeah. We were like training and we're like. And then so me and Kevin did like one more thing afterwards. Before we were done, it was funny. We're filled. I remember back then when a king Williams was like the new kid. You remember that when he came in. He was just like the crazy strong new kid. And hey, you know who else old we're talking about old school guys who've been around for a while. You know what I talked to over the weekend was Derek Farnsworth. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's traveling today as we record this to the master's Olympia. So he's like, if we still have his thumb somewhere. We're going to get him out. By the way, when he comes back in and stuff. I say Derek worked on me once, but it was sort of a impromptu. Went in the back of the booth. I mentioned something about my problem. And he's like, oh, come with me. And then we go in the back of the mutant booth and he just starts ramen. It's thumb into my ribs and he's up under my armpit and he's like one of my shoulder blade. And I'm like, yeah. And he's like, yeah, something in there. And he's like, you know, pulling my lat off my ribs. I'm going on at the mutant booth. You know, I'm like, yeah, well, bruised up. So he's done some work. He didn't work on my shoulder. Like in the front of the booth one time. I was like, oh, it's click and he goes, here. Give me your arm. And like five minutes later, I was going to remove your limb. Yeah, I was like, thanks buddy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. That was, it was just a great show all the way around. And there haven't been a lot of shows when I'm not there to be honest that I'm watching them throughout the day. Yeah. So you realize we made it from first test six. And we didn't miss anybody. I think that even bodybuilding was rubbing off on us. You know, the is what it was. You know, you guys want to just step up your game a little bit. If you watch us, he'll still tell us what we did wrong. But that's because of fairness. Yeah. Yeah. We didn't say enough negative stuff. You know what I mean? We needed to you guys aren't color. Yeah. Val. It was like everybody. It was like everybody. It was like everybody. It was a good show. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Are we moving on? Yes. If we go any further, we'll start messing it up. Oh yeah. Quick. Yeah. Right. So like I've said, two nice things to my wife. I'm just going to leave it. Yeah. Right. I'm not trying to come up with a third nice thing. No. I saw this amazing thing. The other day you guys, it was on Instagram. And this guy walks in his house and he looks his wife. He goes, hey, give me a beer real quick before it starts. And she goes, okay. So she goes and gives him a beer. He drinks it and he sits on the couch. He goes, quick, quick grab me another beer before it starts. So she goes off and grabs a beer. He brings a bathroom. He drinks it. He's like, give me one more beer before it starts. She's like, before what starts. He goes, just give me the beer. Hurry. So she gets the beer. He starts to drink it and she goes, Are you just going to sit here all the year goes. Shit. Now it started. I lost it. I'm like, oh, that's what he was talking about. I'm not fucking started. Here we go. Yes. Okay. Good stuff. All right. We got some questions. We got a bunch of questions, man. Not a lot of my. My people never fail. You know, on my short notice, oh, shit. We didn't plan anything. Help me. Yeah. All right. We got to talk about your death threat. Oh, we should cover my death threat. Am I allowed to read the death threat? So I, I realize. I have done, I've done nothing. I've done nothing impactful with my entire life. I have affected nobody. I have, let's not call it quick anymore. By the way, let's just. I will stop using that word on the live threat. On the live threat. Maybe on a life threat. Oh, I'm cut on the other side. I'm friendly email. Yes. I realize now I have not tried hard enough to make an impact because I'm not getting. On a live email. Like, yeah. You must be doing something great to have someone hate you so much. I like the way you're looking at this. Like, I'm, I need to try harder because I feel like a little left out. Like, I've got people that dislike me. I've got people that say, I hate that guy. I, blah, blah, blah. I've heard lots of insults about me and I've gotten some mean messages, but I've never gotten an in your life and your family. And your family. And your family. Yeah. And like, I want my family included. Here's the thing. If I were to receive that, I would hope that I knew what I had done. Do you know what I mean? I would, oh, he's receiving that because of this thing that I said, yeah. I don't even know what dusty said. Because I want a chance to change Scott. Yeah. Or just think responsibility. I thought the title of the email was the best. Yeah. Dusty Han Shah, son of a bitch posting some crappy contents. I love how he left spaces. But what was the word between the letters? So I assume it's S O space N. Yeah. So the bitch was B space I space T space CH. They said together. Yeah. So then the death threat itself kind of has some spaces in it. On a lot of things. Yeah. Yeah. On a lot of things. Are they sort of thinking that that'll dodge like a, like a sensor bought or I don't. I'm wondering that. Yeah. That picks up violent threats or something. Like it was almost like the spaces. I wonder. I would have been reported in some way would. Right. Some email filter. Yeah. You know, something picks it up and reports us suspicious content if it's not space. That like that. Right. In a positive note guys, the last line was Rest in Peace. Oh, that's nice. I feel like he like brought it up. Sort of sleep at the end of the day. It's all going to be okay. We all do it on a live. No. Which is going to be a no rest. It's. Well, all of us one day will be there. You know. So I brought it over. It's a red and sticky. It's just laughed and kept making lunch. It was amazing. I enjoyed it. Well, see, I'd be tempted to, since you're living the states, I'd be tempted to like give it to like someone in the FBI. And you find out who this is. I'd give it to them then they're like it was us. Ah. It's part of the SIOP. We've started against you to drive me insane. Right. And they found out I'm already there because I laughed and then went to my next set. Yeah. Yeah. So Dusty's getting email. So if anyone out there hates me. Step it out. I want. I feel like Dusty has had, you know, like people that they say if you don't have any enemies, you've never done anything impactful. Yeah. I've always been like, start to feel like my life has been too soft and nice. I don't have these emails coming in. I wonder who I have enough impact. Yeah. We'll get you there, buddy. We're just sprinkling a little more American on you. You'll get there. I need more of that. Okay. Beautiful. What's next? How do you leave that topic? That was a bit of a con the questions. That was an answer. That was an answer. Yeah. Scott, do you think? Whatever you like. All right. I'm just going to go from the top there. And I do see one, too. We'll have to get to the one from my client. We have a story from the weekend. But before we do from dude man with a bunch of owes, what is the last cycle by Ron and Dusty before going to Tier T Scott? I know that you're on the gas. If how is that going currently? I don't know if I'd say I'm on the gas. Love the show. Thanks for the entertainment. Yeah. So what was, if you guys remember, what was your last cycle? My last cycle. Well, I mean, I did the van pro in 2015. And then I was, I was off season 2016. Trying to get nice and juicy big again when I'm in the quad. And I remember I was 315 at the time when I took my quad tour. And I was running, I remember I was running Test and EQ and GH. So it's this Test EQ and GH at the time. And I was 315. And that's when I tore my quad. And then after that, you know, when during the rehab part, I just used like a bit of test for like the year to rehab, you know? And then I think I did like another probably cycle of EQ with test again to like try to size up or you know something and then that would have been my last cycle. And then I would have been like, okay, and I've seen that and I would have been like let's open the gym. Yeah, there we go. Yeah. So it would have been Test and EQ and GH. I'd bet money was probably the last cycle I ran. Probably somewhere around 750 tests and like 500 EQ or something like just basic shit. I would do it in a show. Mine would have been after I was probably training for about two months after the coma. Yeah. And I was like, let's speed this process up a little bit. And so I just went with real simple. I did 750 test 300 EQ and then I dropped some abombs in there for about four weeks. And then I got real heavy real quick and I was like, oh better get rid of those. And that was always my tried and true and I know Ron is with me on that like Test and EQ was just went in doubt, dropped those in and have a good time. And I never really got like fancy with the cycles even when I was growing. I was like, yeah, throw those two things in things take place. And we talked about this on the show before, but I got to like say this again for people. I have been up like I'd win as high as 1200 on Test. I just didn't really see any change. I didn't see enough difference between the 750 line and the 1200 that it made sense. So I just didn't do it. It wasn't like an anti or oh no, I'm walking the path. So I'm going to go lower. I went up and nothing happened. And I was like, well then what's the point? I know what boosting obviously other things went up as well. But I was like, there were just a point for me where it was very obvious that the return on investment wasn't there. And I like to just put that out there because everyone thinks that I'm like holding some flag for all low doses. It's like no, just the doses that work. Yeah. Like right. You know, in my in my prime of like chasing to be as big as I could. If I needed 1500 milligrams of test to do, I would have done it. Yes, it's not like I'm like, oh, I would never. It just wasn't necessary. And when I tried to go up to a higher level, it just wasn't, it didn't really, I didn't see anything. So, and I've dabbled with here and there since then, but it's more like, you know, for fun. I'm like, oh well, what would it be to throw in 400 milligrams of premo with my test here and see what happens. You know, yeah. Yeah, I remember you saying you did that. It was a while ago. Yeah. You know, it was like not, and that's kind of, I hate saying what I've done now because I usually don't really stick with it to be completely honest with you. I'm not like running cycles like I was and about maybe two, three months ago, I decided I was like, I'm going to get back on a cycle. And I'm going to do like a legit cycle like 750 tests, something like I can't remember what it was if it was like 800 tests and 700 EQ or something. And it lasted about two weeks. I was like, I'm just taking shots. Yeah, I was like, I don't want to do all these shots. And I don't want to have five bunch of gears. So I was like, you know what, how about I do? It was like eight, we'll say it was like 800 and 600. And I was like, well, then how about it's 400 and 300. And I was like, oh, I'm just 300 tests and no EQ. And I was like, well, he just, slowly. Yeah. Yeah. But that said, I do have some DHB on hand. I have some clients that all kind of around the same time wanted to start DHB. And I had heard. So I'd run DHB die hydroboldenant, basically as testosterone breaks down into DHT, aqua poise breaks down into DHB, right? The reduced form. So I, you know, I'd heard, I'd used it twice. I'd used it once in a cut situation, once in an off situation. I had a great experience with it. And lately I had been hearing people say in the last year or so well as really a toxic compound. And, and I had heard this kind of paraded on comments where I'd be like, Oh, yeah. You see, you know, liver values going to go through the roof. So I have a client who you see, Suma has been up to runs gym actually. He said, he's a good guy. He's a good guy. He's a good guy. And he's competing again this weekend. Yeah. He's he's like literally men's on, right? Yeah. He's unmen's. And he works with me. God. Sorry for outing thought. Yeah. So he, he's like, I don't always drink it smart. I don't want to use trend. This off season or this contest prep. I just don't want to. You know, I get a little edgy, master's my sleep a little. What else could we do? And we talked about DHB. So he starts running six weeks in. We did labs. His labs hurt the best they've ever been on a cycle. Like he's doing incredible. Somebody else that I've worked with is getting labs done this week. And I've got some and just because I don't want to run a bunch of gear, I'm going to do 100 tests and 100 DHB twice a week. That's going to be my cycle. And I can handle that because that's literally like a CC and a half per week. So I'm going to do that for a little while. We'll see how that goes. It's very low dose. Nice. Okay. I'll get left to. And then we've got some other people that are getting labs. I want to put this to rest once and for all how toxic is die hydropolton. You know what is hard for me with toxicity is that it's not one size fits all. Yeah. Like I've done my blood work. Like after a show and I'm like, oh god, I don't want to see this. Yeah. And then it comes through and I'm stunned at how good it is. I'm like slightly at a range of a couple of things and you're like, how is that possible? Yeah. And then I've clients that have run a couple of things. They send me their blood work and I'm like, oh my god, you need to do your time. Yeah. My, yeah. My worst blood work ever was one of my very first shows. Okay. And then within five weeks, six weeks of the show, it was completely corrected. And it couldn't have been gear related because I was on very little gear. It had to have been the way I died it. And so what happened was I had done a couple of shows already. And then for the 99 Alberta's, which I was peeled that in one of the overall, I was very broke. I was going to college full time I had no money. So I just bought like 20 amps a sustenant and a bottle of cland. Like in a Costco membership. I literally did that show on two amps a sustenant a week. And then I'm a buddy gave me like a handful of halo tabs for like two weeks. Yep. Like I had nothing like it was very minimal drugs. And then after the show, and my blood work done, everything was pretty good, but my liver value, my ALT was a thousand. Okay. Yes, hi. Time to take a break for you. Halo. You know? I was like, that's I took like 20 makes a halo a day for two weeks. And 500 makes a test. Like it can never see that before. Because my show before that I took like other stuff. And my liver enzyme was fine. But the diet I'd done, I had done this diet where, and this is why I think my liver value was artificially elevated. I was dieting on very high protein almost no carbs. Okay. And so you know your body, your body does a lot to change protein into glucose. Right. And I think I had a lot of liver stress on all the processes that may have been going on with the diet I was doing because it was extremely low carb high protein. I was kind of living on protein. Yeah. And then as soon as I went, like my doctor was like, oh my God, do liver. And then within like five, six weeks, it was back down to range. And I was like, oh. And then I never ever saw an elevated liver value, even even over a hundred after that. Really? Even like, anodrol and other stuff. But I never did that severe long term of a kind of almost carbless diet. So are you saying that rice fixes liver levels? Yes. No, I'm just saying that's a good thing. I suspect is that the diet, the forcing the liver to process all the protein into fuel. Yeah. Probably had some to do with that liver enzyme level. I'm guessing. I mean, with 20 milligrams of halo for two weeks, that's like nothing. Yeah. So that doesn't math out. Yeah. Never ever again saw anything like that ever. And I was just like so weird. And I was young and I was only 23. So like you're so fresh and resilient. Yeah. Like it had to have been some weird, freaky thing with protein, glucose, gluconogenesis. Gluconogenesis. Gluconogenesis. Yeah. I think that's what I was saying. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that's my guess. I don't know. I'm not an expert. But I was like to mentally think of how someone could twist what was just said. You got it, rice bro. What you got was don't go low carbs. Got it. No, I just have some funny circumstances. It was something going on. Got that make sense. Okay. Yeah. So I got two questions here from the shredded cheese. Who's a client of mine competed this week? Oh, I got to tell you guys a story about him too. By the way, but I'm going to throw these questions at your first. Says you could only eat protein bars for the rest of your life or go vegetarian. Or would you rather eat soup or sandwiches for the rest of your life? And go round. So there's two separate questions. Two separate questions. Yeah. So I couldn't live on protein bars for the rest of my life. I couldn't do it. But if I go in vegetarian, that's tough. Fuck. That's tough one. Because if you go vegetarian, you can't have milk chocolate again for the rest of your life. Ooh. So there's the protein bars. I don't know man. Protein bars like after I eat like three of them. Couldn't you be like one of those soft veg people where they're not fully vegan. So maybe the chocolate could stay. They have soft gas. Like religion, you know, where you have the rules you follow them the one you don't. Wow, there's vegan in this vegetarian and there's a difference. But like vegans will a true vegan. Like people forget what that means. But like back in the old days of vegan wouldn't even wear leather shoes. Yeah. Right. That's a true vegan. Right. People forget that. But this is vegetarian, right? Yeah. Yeah. So you're safe. I think we can keep the chocolate. I don't know man. I don't really care too much about vegetarian foods. I would definitely go and ship myself along eating the protein bars. That's what I was going to say is the fence of those around me. Yeah. I'd go vegetarian. I'd have to live on like chocolate flavored vegetarian protein powder. And. Can we time travel in this because if we can go back and make it yummy to like the early 2000s when all the protein bars were full of shit. They were just candy bars. Oh, they're going to live off of the D tour bars. Oh, okay. They've got D tours. They're the one exception. So if I can go back to like, Oh, one, Tabloid. I'm going protein. Yeah. It's still exist. No, I think once they had to meet label claims it didn't quite taste the same. Yeah. I remember the first time I tried to when those this is how it goes down when you're using this is makers. You take a bite and you go, this is definitely not actually on the label. No. And then you continue to eat them as if the label is accurate or you have three at your first time in a D. I'm going to make you eat three at a show and then you almost shit your pants at the show. Yeah. Yeah. They had these. That was my morning every day when I was a kid. I would go in and get a D tour bar when I get to get to work and then a fedger drink. Oh, God. And kick this off of pure fedrine and candy. I'm going to stuff we did to our systems. I was recently explaining to somebody about your himbine. And I was like, Well, if you took any fat burners in the early 2000s, you probably had used. And as I was telling him that my brain went back to like, Do you remember how popular every company's fat burner was? There was like red line in light bow six. Everybody had a fat burner. You know, I wrote a lot of those things, man. Hydro cuts and you know all that. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was amazing. Yeah. Yeah. I'm going to say amazing. I'm going to plug my friend Bill Tokos protein bar. The boron sugar. He sent me a couple boxes of these and I'm going to tell you they are actually really good. And they have pure weight isolate in them. They do have a lot of fiber so that that's kind of like the way they get away because it's like a keto bar. So I don't know if I could eat like six of them a day. But I have eaten two and my digestive system was cleaned out in a good way. It was like, wasn't a bad thing, but I was like, yeah. Right. Yeah. I think I'm down a piece of the number. I had a barbecue once. I was had a barbecue once and I had a burger. Well, I had a few burgers. And I had like a third burger. Yeah. I was like, Oh, that one was pretty good. And I just had my burgers playing. You know me, right? Yeah. Oh, yeah. And maybe it's slice of cheese and anyways. And then someone's like, Oh, you ate one of the veggie patties. It was one of the black bean burgers. And I was like, Oh, that's why it tastes different. But it was really yummy. Those are good. But then someone at the party told me, Oh, those aren't the good quality ones. And I was like, Oh, I like them. It was better than that. Yeah. I can live on those. Maybe I could maybe the shitty quality. Yeah. That's why it was good. You know what I mean? That's classic. Yeah. Wow. We already know it. Ron's answer on the super for sandwich. Chicken noodle soup and beef and barley soup. Yeah. Get your protein in there with the beef. Chicken. I'm almost an old man. No. I can order soup. Yeah. Don't see it was angry that day. My friends like an old man said soup back at a deli. Don't threaten me with the sandwich. Because that's not a threat. No. I know. Which is every day. I'd live off sandwiches too. Yeah. I'd like to say something myself or to someone else have to touch it. I prefer if someone else touches it. Sam which is with mail. Every sandwich has mail. The sandwich the problem is the sandwich comes and I don't trust exactly what's been done to it. I want to put the gloves on. I peel the top back and look someone spit in this. Oh, you. So I have a story. I have a layer there from this client. And I have questions. Follow up question for you guys. So this is Jeremy. The shredded cheese. And here's the deal. So he had to eat that. Yeah. And so here's the deal. He had to die at really hard. And he's at a point where he struggled to make weight. So his cutoff was 194. And we're like eating next to nothing. Like foods real low. And he's at like 195, 197. You know. And his weight just doesn't want to come down. So we went to basically like a modified keto diet. And we got him down to like, what's all in 195, 195, 195, 195. But he would also have trouble with sleep from the diet. So if you didn't sleep well, he'd wake up at like 197 or 202. And if you woke up at 202 the day, so we have to weigh in Friday night. Because it's the state level show that he just did this past weekend. And so we had to, we ended up having to basically starve him that day. Like no food that day fast. And we had to control fluid. Like okay, you're good. You know, he'd weigh in. And I'm like, okay, you can drink four ounces of water over the next 30 minutes. And then four ounces of water after that. And then check back in again. And we'll see if you can have more water or if you have to wait, you know. Right. So he has to drive. I think it was like two hours. And that he's driving on Friday. He's timing it up so that he can get there right at five o'clock when he starts right everything is timed up perfectly about two hours in his My day day. So I'm not doing anything else for work except for hanging out with my wife and then talking to him. And I didn't heard from him for a while and I kind of texted him. See what's going on. Everything's good. And you know, I don't hear from him for a while longer. He should be showing up pretty soon. And then I get the text. I forgot my trunks. Oh my god. He's been. I tell you about the diet, right? He was pretty upset at this point. You know what I'm saying? Like I think he can probably hopefully laugh at it now. But he was like, you know what man. I've just been so hungry for so long. I sleep for con sucks and like now this. It's like I don't need this. Like I just want this to be done. I want it to be over, you know. And I feel for him. But at the same time, I'm like, but he looks. I think we got a pretty good plan here. You know, I know what we're going to do with him after we get to the after we get some of the scale. We just have to get through this thing. And but he got very reactive and I've been there. You know what I'm saying? So moral of the story is he ends up going all the way home. To our trip turns into like a five hour drive. I feel for the dude. Not drinking, not eating, right? And he makes way and he ends up winning two classes. Like he and his mind was blowing, right? He gets up there for the overall in body building. And the guy who won the overall would like just completely destroyed anybody. And he didn't even show his big dude. He looked really good. So there's no love loss there. You know what I mean? Like he did the best he could. Did incredible. And his perspective completely changed too. You know, and he's like, oh shit. So I guess my point is, because you guys know firsthand, like you make a mistake like that. And you let it get in your head. That could be the end of your prep. Do you know what I mean? Like one bad thinking happened and you're like, oh, this is it. Like I don't care anymore. I'm done. I just want to go home and eat. You kind of, you tap out like that. It all worked out for him. And I'm glad that it did. And I think there's huge lessons for him. But like I think that it's a great learning. It's a great teaching tool around. And I thought we could talk about either mistakes that we've made that felt like the end of the world right before the show or maybe a mistakes we've seen clients make. And and how did we pull through those things? Because it am I right? It could have gone the opposite way. Had he said like screw it. I'm just going to drink water and we're going to do whatever happens. Like he wouldn't have made way. You know what I mean? Yep. Or to stress. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, fuck. I've seen everything go wrong. Like, and as some of it obviously, the self sabotage part. I had a guy. He was doing light heavy weights. And he was like very good. It was like a provincial level show. It already done one show and won the overall whatever. So like he was good. He was threat to win this show. And he was getting ready for the light heavy weights. And I remember he. I couldn't get a hold of him on Wednesday. I think it was. And then on Thursday he's like, hey, I'm not going to do show. What? What? And he's like, ah, I went to Burger King yesterday. And I ate like you don't even want to know. I just fucked and went off. Yeah. And I'm like, well, what do you weigh? And he's like, two, twelve or something. And I'm like, oh, dang. And he's a light heavy. So what? I've seen twenty nine. The stuff they Border? I used to pay like seventy nine nine. It was a cut off. Ten pounds over, but like Burger King. Yeah. I'm like, oh, God, so like he's. way 1997 you should look really good. Yeah. Like help me help you fix this. You're going to regret this if you don't want to. I forced him to like agree to do the show. Yeah. This two minutes of two days. Thursday Friday just give me two days. Yeah. And so as I can't eat this, go pound this, drink this, like just go hard. His weight and you know sometimes when you if someone eats like that their weight doesn't pee can till like 36 hours later. Yes. I remember I remember he woke up on the Friday. I remember him being a little heavier than the day like you know what I mean. Like it was like you'd gone on the no carbs and stuff but it was still just so many calories were in his body like you know. And so then Friday was just like pulling water off of him. I remember he went to weigh in any weight in at like 201. They gave him an hour. Okay. You got to come back in an hour because we got to hide in everyone. Bubble, bubble, bubble, bubble. Yeah. And I remember I made him take a supposed story. Yep. Because like you are going to put this up your ass. So I'm safe to have the same body like like you're going to go to your room now. And you are going to do this like and then I made him run the stairs into sweat suit. Yep. I'm like just going up and down as many times you can. Like don't stop. And like he came back soaking wet. He went and like good. He got so good. He made and he made the weight. Yes. He did. One the show. He won the show. And then he quit body building because of you. And I remember afterwards I was like, oh God. It's so taxing to drag someone to a show like that and make them do it. And I swear I would never do it again. Yeah. Because someone and then I did. I've done it. Since we've all done it, boy. There was a lot of you. You know, there's a lot of you want something more than they do. Like, not only that. I mean, the athlete, like you they loot, you can. And I've had it happen to myself to degrees where like you lose perspective. Do you run? Do you remember that movie in Momento? Yes. So I told people the stick movie by the way. Here's the analogy I use. I say there's a movie about this guy who'd wake up every day and he would forget all of his life every morning. He woke up. So we started writing these posts at notes to them to himself. And I'll tell him like a month out when they're doing good or six weeks out or at the beginning of the prep. I need you to write a post at note to yourself right now mentally about where you're at right now, what your goals are, what you want to achieve because you might need to look at that one day. You know, eight weeks or six weeks down the road. You know? Yeah. Yeah. It's funny because it's all in how you handle those things. In 2010, my first US says, um, I don't, as you guys know, I don't book anything. I don't book travel. I didn't know where the hell I'm going half the time. Leave it. I'm going out of time this week and I found out the other day where we were going. I was like, oh, cool. I knew we were going to a cabin. I did old state. It was nice. But anyways, so every on head booked where we were staying for the US says and we're in the room. We're all set. We get their Wednesday shows Saturday and Thursday, I'm in my room and I get a call from the front desk and they're like, hey, you didn't check out. And I was like, yeah, I'm staying till Monday. And I'm like, no, you're booked for one night. I was like, no, I'm booked for the whole time. Well, we find out that she had bought the room from a different site where essentially what they would do is book you. And then if there were openings, they would just book again every day. Well, the hotel apparently had sold out. And obviously, that's a good time for a meltdown of some sort. And instead, I looked at her and I said, here's my credit card figure it out. And then I just sat down and I said, just let me know what's happening when it's all done. And I actually do this day have no idea what happened. I don't know if she paid them. No idea. I just know I didn't switch rooms and everything went fine with the show. But I was like, yep, that's on you, kiddo. Figure it out. And here's the card that'll take care of the damage if it's needed and that's it. But the worst thing I had with the client, not the one of the worst, was I had a guy coming in for a show. It was a big show. I think it was a little cup. And I had him completely peeled. Yeah. And he was he was suffering, you know. And everything's going good. He flies up. I get my pictures the next day. We are dead nuts on. Everything's going well. Then I get my afternoon picks and they're a little off. Okay. And I was like, what'd you do today? He's like, no, if everything's good, if everything's good, and I was like, are you sure? Like nothing changed? And he's like, no, no, everything's good. Just, I don't know, I'm holding a little water out. It's like, all right, well, get a good night's sleep then. Go to bed early. Maybe I think you're maybe stressed. Yeah. You know, as I can eat your relax. I'm like, no change to plan, but I want to go to bed early. Tap a sleep, aid, whatever. So he says, okay, the next morning, he sends pictures in their worse. Oh. And I said, bro, some things off. There's something you're not telling me. And he's like, can I call you? And I was like, all right, so he called you. So you knew there's something up when he said, can I call you? Here's the thing. My mom brought these chocolates for me to eat after the show. And I was like, and how many did you consume before the show? And he said, all of them. And I'm like, oh, we've introduced dairy into the equation. Shit. Oh, I know what I'm like. I said, okay, just for my own knowledge, how much? And he said, whatever you think it's more than that. Okay. And we did the best we could. He ended up getting third in a show. He would have won the overall four. Yeah. And I bring it up because I, I don't, I can't fathom doing that. Like, and he said, he said, I'll be honest, many goes, I just was, I wanted to have one. Yeah. And then he said, basically, every time he went through the kitchen, he had another one. It's just one, you know? And then it fell apart. I was just, I mean, that's a case like where, I mean, I was actually angry. Yeah. Yeah. Because I'm marked, dude, I don't give a shit how you could eat three times that much Saturday night. We just did a 24 week prep of hell. And you broke on chocolates 48 hours out. I, uh, it, it just, and I struggle with understanding people in general. So this one really killed me. I mean, he killed himself. Okay. Rew it away on chocolate. Yeah. I can't see his outward. I keep saying that. I know. I was like, between everything we've said today. I'm like, this one's got to be. Yeah. 11 views. Yeah. Right. Why? Why? I was good show. It's a lot of beeping going up and now posts today. Yeah. That's funny. So yeah, that was a rough one. Oh, yeah. Lessons learned, right? Yeah. And I, you know, in, and Jeremy did a fantastic job, though, too. So, and I think like I said, it was, he woke up that next day, you know, the day of the show and he was like, all right. I'm focused to get it. But we all have those little moments. And it's just get through that. Sometimes, man, it's, it's, you know, what things just don't always go perfect. There's flights that get missed. There's, you know, Trump's that get forgotten. And it like we just, we just work with it, because at the end of the day, nobody cares, right? When you get up on stage, nobody knows any of those stories. They just see your physique. And it's not going to ruin you. You know, as long as you don't lose your head over it. I was going to say one thing real quick while we're on that subject. Guys know that you're brain dead at the end of the show and know there's a lot going on. Yeah. So a list of the things that you must bring should be put together like a week out. Yeah. So that you have all that stuff, then you check that list. And if you're flying, the things that you need to compete must go on the airplane with you. Yeah. Must, you know, trunks. You know, you're seeing with their posing music on it. They won't know. Yeah. Anything I remember what you do that to. But I mean, all of that stuff has to go on the plane with you. I mean, I tell all the girls I work with, I'm like, your shoes on the plane. Yeah. Your suit on the plane. Like, do not, I don't, you know, your food that we must have on the plane, the rest of your clothes. I don't care if you wear that suit all week. Right. Right. So the grocery store. I'd even, I need that shit. I'd even put the flip flops. I was going to wear for the day of the show. Because I never wear normal shoes. I was a flip flop guy for, you know, the tan and shit. Yeah. Of course. Those were in my carry on. Like, everything I needed. I could just go to the show with like, you know, my Nike dry fit stuff and my flip flops and my trunks and my everything. Good job. I had asked them to like, hey, do you want to get on the phone to make sure you've got everything you need put it, you know, list good list. Get this. I got it. And then after I got that text, I was like, oh, this is not good. Because I know that feeling of like, you know, just like all of a sudden the world fell apart. And Victoria said to me, she was like, that was the one thing. Like, he could have forgotten anything else. Anything. Anything. Just that was the one one custom thing. The one thing. Borough. Like, you know, you forget your ring light. Okay. Forget your body weight scale. Which that's the number one thing I find people get as their body weight scale. You know, you know, but the trunks is the one you'll never do that again. You don't know. No, no, no, no, no, bring them on vacation. When you present, need them. Right. What does it mean? I have some questions. I know Ron, you saw a couple of good ones that really stood out. There were some good ones in there. Yeah. I like those. Yeah. That's these question boxes do all right. Yeah. See if there's anything that stands out here in there, man. I got to find it again. All right. I trusted you. Well, you find it. All right. What changes would you guys like to see in the fitness industry trends, divisions, stops, how to deal with someone, uh, rating a college essay instead of actually doing a set, etc. Thank you for the what we know what there is info. Yeah. I think the only, the thing that pops to mind for me, um, that I would like to push to the new generation of bodybuilders is, is having a life outside of bodybuilding. Yes. Like, and I know I'm an old grumpy man, but, uh, I was in the gym the other day and there were two girls there training, talking a ton. And I was just like, I just wanted to walk over go, you're annoying the shit of me, but anyways, could you talk about something other than your chicken breast and your diet and your put, like, I just feel like, you know, it's something that I really believe in anyone who followed me back and then I know is I was 120% bodybuilder, but having things that you do and enjoy outside of bodybuilding, we'll make you a better bodybuilder. Yeah. I agree. It absolutely will. I know I saw this thing. It was actually funny. Um, Matthew Kachak, uh, his dad was a pro hockey player. He and his brothers are both pro hockey players. Yeah. And he was asked, what is the thing that your parents did that made, made it possible for you to become professional hockey players? And he said, they wouldn't let me play hockey in the summer. Okay. Yes. He's like, we could play any sport we wanted, except for hockey. He wanted us to hang out with our friends, play baseball, play soccer, do whatever, but we were not allowed to do summer leagues. And that just rings to me because it's like, you got to have something else, because you'll need to get burnt out or, you know, I mean, you just won't love it. Um, so I think that's something that more people could lean into now because I know it's got a really popular to run your whole life route and do social media and everything else, but other hobbies will change your perspective and make you a better bodybuilder. I saw an interesting article on that exact thing, Dusty. It was, there's a study that actually shows now. You can anyone out there that actually knows what it is, can send it to us. But I believe it was kids who play multiple sports who are forced to play multiple sports and expose to multiple sports, actually wind up being better at the sport that they specialize in. Wow. And it's because one of the factors is they think that the kids at those ages are less likely to get burned out by the sport that they're focusing on. Because, you know, if you got a kid playing summer league hockey, it's just all hockey, hockey, and you know, kids, kids can you can fry your kid on stuff too early, you know, get them two where they feel like they're trapped in the sport and that's part of it. And then the second thing was there's just so much to take advantage of as a kid as far as developing their athletic skills and their athletic potential and everything has like such an overlap. Like if you force them, like you expose them to summer sports, then there, there's other skills that they learn that they're then bring back to their overall athletic ability as a hockey player when they start their season again. So there's some interesting research on that. Like multiple sports are the way to go if you want them to be good at any of those sports. Right. I know what I mean. Obviously, there's an age when we specialize, you know, it's good to be good to the dub. It's time to stop playing baseball. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? But yeah, that's that's that's funny that you said that. Um, I think something that I'd like to see as far as having other things going on, I feel like I got away with murder. Being a man. No, I know. I got away with not a living. I got away with not a living. This bug we're not a six views. We're not a six. We're not even talking about any of those things. But it could be missing. True. But I, you know, like I was very single focus. Bodybuilder only, you know, my whole life was revolving around bodybuilding and stuff. But I was also I was smart enough to know that I had to also like pay attention to my finances because bodybuilding wasn't going to take care of that and stuff. And I, I feel like I probably would have been an even better bodybuilder had I been even a little more diversified as it was my interest go. You know what I mean? And now that I'm older and I see people getting kind of trapped in the bodybuilding only mindset, I'm like, now I know I survived that, but it didn't go great for everyone. Right. And I don't necessarily recommend that, you know? And I think you should everyone should have a hobby that takes their mind away from bodybuilding. And you should ask yourself, do I have anything that takes me away from bodybuilding? Because I think it's actually great idea. You know, just something mentally you're out of the, you're not thinking about your chicken breast. I think that that's a mistake and it's going to burn you out much like the young kid that you forced to play some or hockey. You know? So, yeah. You know, another thing that I thought of that you guys are probably experienced, but uh, and this could be everything, but in bodybuilding, we spend a lot of time talking about ourselves. You know, so we'll be at the booth and Nikki laughs because she's, although she's in the sport, she's still an outsider and she'll laugh because I'll see someone I know and they'll walk up like, hey, Dasty. So this year I worked on bringing up my glutes and doing this. I just finished and they just puked on me. And then they leave and she's like, what the hell was that? That's not even a conversation. And I think it's something that you should be mindful of and I actually had a friend that was a really good sales guy. And I would notice when he would be around people, they'd be like, hey Nate, how's your, you know, what's going on with the family? He got all everyone doing good and then he'd immediately put it back to them and asked them about them and asked them things and I realized like he's great to be around. Like he's all and then everyone loves him and no one even realizes why. But it's because he's always reverse. He's always getting back off of him and I think in bodybuilding because we are so focused, it's an easy trap to just go on and on and on about yourself. And I find the world is a lot more interesting and especially in bodybuilding. I always laugh because people are like, how's things? And I'm like, dude, I live the same day every day. I'm the most boy person to talk to. So please tell me about you. You don't I mean? But I think that they'll find that they're enjoy things better and people won't avoid them. Yeah. Yeah, try to be a little cognizant of the post show puke when I think everyone, everyone, there's a bodybuilder has done it to someone at least once. That's fine. That's fine. We all went through that. I'm sure I did it a bunch of times. But try to be aware of if you're doing it and it's not a habit you want to be in and it's not like a thing you want to have as I get a constant trait. You know what I mean? And that's like, you know when someone says, hey, how's it going? Like they mean you? Like how is it going? Like how are you? They don't just mean how's your diet? How's your prep? How is your morning pictures? They don't just mean in fact most likely that's the stuff they care the least about. Like when I ask someone how they're doing, I would love hearing an actual answer. Like, oh, I'm doing great, man. You know, a bubble of a blonde. But the last thing I want to hear is, like, hey, man, congratulations on the weekend. Yeah, you know, I really going to bring my back and then just this long tirade about their bodybuilding plans that have nothing to do with the moment I just, you know, I know what you mean, Dusty. Hey, I just got a text from, uh, UC Suma. He says, uh, Jordan Hutchinson is right in front of me training chest with Justin Wyatt right now. Oh, I told him, hey, ask him to come on the show after, uh, after, uh, he's done competing for the season. Yeah, man. Yeah. Absolutely. Well, that won't be till October now. Oh, yeah. Well, maybe come on before Justin. Yeah. Yeah. Jordan Jordan will definitely be down. We've shared some cheeseburgers together. We're good. We're tired. Oh, you know what? You know enough to all. All right. Cool. What about this one, then, guys, from Dan Kooley, he says, guys got first call out, Master's Nets a few weeks ago. Now, the main critique I received was to bring in my glutes and glute tie in better. Um, what are some things besides RDLs and glute bridges that I can do to really bring in those gnarly wall nut looking glutes and that deep tie in? Get shredded. Yeah. It's only two things you can do. Ad muscle and reduce fat. So if you're, if you have enough muscle there, right, if you're, you know, squatting and stiff leg dead lifting and doing all the, you know, stuff you're supposed to do to get muscle there, the rest is just get more peeled than you've ever been. Get to where you were at this last show and then drop five more pounds and just, you know, get to where you were at the last show with five weeks left in your prep. Yep. And then just like that skin will just get tighter and tighter and tighter and then you'll wind up people will wind up telling you, oh, you know, what did you do? You know, I just got leaner. Braiden talked about that on his Instagram that I thought was great. Um, he said the the biggest mistake that a lot of bodybuilders make is there's the prep's a two short. Yeah. And I agree like we used to do 12 week prep's. That was first time was the norm. And now I like to start people at 20 as a minute. Yeah. Yeah. I think we used to, one is a fast prep. I used to start, we used to do the 12, I remember my first show was an 11 week prep. Yep. I got ripped because we just didn't, you know how people tell you stuff. So you think it's a rule. Like, you know, the rule like you got to lose two or three pounds a week or it's muscle. Yeah. Like I didn't, my first show I was just, they didn't know that rule. Yeah. Just wasn't a diet. The weight just fell off. And I wound up ripped and there was 11 weeks and there was a hard diet. I was starving the whole time. But yeah, I was like five pounds a week. I'll add to it if he does need more tissue. I think the bodybuilders and some people would be surprised to hear this. But I've had two bodybuilders that I work with. Actually go to Brett Contreras and get programs to train their glutes differently because they did not enough tissue. And I'm like, dude, because I want shredded glutes like you had them. Like I have a huge ass. Yeah. You have to bring the tissue there. And trust me when I say they're fighting me tooth and nail because I've got them doing all sorts of weird, Brett Contreras, glute work in the gym like the bikini girls. I had two guys do that for a year. Insanity. If you aren't, it changed my whole view of how it works. I mean, the amount of tissue that two guys that had nothing going on could put on in one year of just adding that stuff in three days a week mind boggling. So don't be afraid to get outside of your your box. I know a lot of guys and I've been guilty. This will say like, we never used to do hip thrust. We just squatted and we just did this throw the rules out the window. If you don't have glutes and you're already doing all that shit, then you better find something else because in bodybuilding you can also need more glutes if you want to see that kind of detail. And I think that more people should not be afraid to go, okay, I'm going to get weird here and see what happens. I told you guys that that's what I did. But one of my clients local competitor, I preproemly landry bikini competitor. And I was like Amy, you know, my glutes sucked. They just never grew. And I was like, I want to come to the gym with you to train glutes. And we like shot video of it and it like made fun of the whole, they had fun with the whole thing with, you know. But I picked out the things that worked for me and I stuck with them. And I got literally like newbie like gains. And I have like pictures that were like side by side glutes shots, you know, the side profile of the glute. Like of three months difference and it was like lights out difference, you know. So when you're on exercises, where you're doing, hit the rest were, you know, a big one. And with, you know, so here's one that I found really helped me a lot was like preactivation stuff. So I'd start out on the abductor machine. But I kind of, you see the bikini girls that kind of like sit forward on the machine, you know. And you kind of envision the top shelf of the glute. A lot of times when you go to do the abductor, it's like a hinge movement. And it kind of once, if you go real heavy, it kind of goes to your hips. You know what I mean? And like right into that joint. But if you go a little bit lighter and you're kind of like sitting forward, but then also kind of have your chest raised, I can target that like upper shelf of the glute. And just that mine muscle connection to that alone was a start. So just doing stuff like that. And then one legid glute bridges off of a bench. Those three things were like the main three that I stuck with. She had me do some crazy stuff that was like way out there that I was like, yeah, I'm not going to stick with these. But those three I could do. And also to side note, if you guys hadn't heard me tell the story before anybody listening, it also fixed my low back issues because it turned out my glutes weren't turning on. So everything when I was doing barbell row stuff like that, my low back was just bracing is hard as it could. More than it could until it couldn't and then I throw my back out. You know, so strengthening the glutes helped to support my bent over movements. Huge. Yeah. Ballad. Yeah. Interesting. Real quick. No one. Nothing ever made my glutes more sore than heavy Bulgarian split squats. Oh. I don't know that that leg you're standing on. Yeah. That glutes has to stabilize too because you only on one leg. I just man it gets get so pumped. Yeah. Real quick one from Lucas says, would you rather eat two burgers or one burger in one fry? Great question. Where are we eating these? Yeah. Where are you? Where are you? Fry's matter. The fries are either. That's true. Yes. Or a ban. Yeah. There's plenty of places that's too burgers for me because they're fries suck. But I mean, if you're taking me somewhere that has like a quality fry, burger and fry. Best fry all time McDonald's. You like a shoe strain kind of a thinner. There's just wind and correctly. They got to be like hot, hot. Then they are amazing. I'll challenge you. I'll challenge you in that. I'll say Arby's curly fries. Oh, yes. Great choice. But I think the make-out is fried straight. Sure. Yeah. I forget about curly fries when I'm in this argument and then I am eating. And then there's also like for me, I love the I love a good kind of a fatter skin still on fry. Like the wedge. Yeah. You know like a little fatter like well, no like the five guys once. Oh yeah. Normal fries, but they still have the skin on them, but they're not the shoe lace ones. Yeah. But I like a five guys fry that giant bag of fries that you get. Were you? You know, I went somewhere recently where they instead of salt that you seasoned salt on them. And it was amazing. This goes like, oh, next level. If you're at the restaurant, will you guys upgrade to sweet potato fries ever? You ever do that? No, because Emily gets the sweet potato fries. So I get the normal fries and then I finish her fries when I get both types. Okay. Good call. Yeah. Yeah. It all works itself out for me. Yeah. Matt. Oh, I like this. And the type of life where I get both fries. Yeah. Why choose? Both fries can a guy. Yeah. I'm a two fries type of guy. My woman lets me have both kinds. Yeah. She's my woman shares with me if you know what I'm saying. I'm not allowed to reach across the table. Yeah. What else you got? I'm looking here. I'm looking at my book and um, do you see we'll be at the Clash of Charleston in October? Probably not. Okay. I don't leave my house very often. Would you ever own? I'm leaving my house tomorrow to go shoot two episodes of Mutant on a mission. Oh, we go. He doesn't know. Yeah, that's come up with something. No, I'm going to. I'm flying to. I'm going to two great gyms. Why? I haven't been there yet. It might be shit holes. But they seem like great guys, great gyms. And I've been invited by the owners, which you know, I like to be invited. There's a lot of gyms that they'll message me and go, why haven't you come to my gym? Yeah. You never, I go. We've never invited me and you've never met a dream before. But hello. But these guys, both these gyms went out of their way. They came to see me at the booth. They've chatted with me. They watched a show. Their fans of the show. And I'm excited to go see the guys at prodigy gym in Denver. Nice. Fort Collins, which will be cool because I've done arm brist gym in Denver. And then I've never been back to Denver for anything. So I'd love to go back. It's up in Fort Collins. And so I'll prodigy gym. And it looks like a great set up they got. And then I'm going to Indianapolis. Never been to Indie before. Oh, nice. And I'm going to see Nathan Eppler. Oh, okay. Cool. And muscle factory. Brightons. Right on. Yeah. So Nathan Eppler message me and they came and saw me at the booth and he was like, man, I love your show. You know, he's a gym owning pro bodybuilder. So I got something in common with Nathan trying to run a business and make a good gym for everybody. So I'm excited to go there. I've never been to Indianapolis before. Yeah. And so I'm excited. And I needed to catch two episodes of the show. So when I sat down to start lining up flights, such a perfect trip, Denver is easy to get to lots of flights to Indie. Yeah. It's nice. It worked out really good. I have clients that have trained at that gym. In fact, one of them I think was like trying to set you up with him a while ago. So I don't know if that's what this ended up having. Right. No, that's been ongoing. You know, okay. Most of the gyms I go to now for mutant on a mission, they've been bugging me at this point. I'm like five years back up. Yeah. So like the gyms I'm going to now are people like that came to see me in 2019 to invite me. Yeah, because it's you know, I do eight to 10 episodes a season and I've been invited by like a hundred gyms. So what are you going to do? You know, how about this question, guys? So competing against competing against other competitors. When was it time when you were pumping up and you were just like, well, I lost. I remember I remember going to the North Americans and being like sort of having the mindset like, well, I didn't win the Canada's this year because it was always like two weeks after. Yeah. But I'm going to go to North Americans and make the biggest impact I can. You never know what will happen. Right? Right. Positive like it's going to be the best I can. We'll go see what happens. Sometimes you guys come home with wins. Never know what's going to happen. Right? Right. I'm always in the kind of top group. I always get looked at. Let's go see. And then a team takes a shirt off backstage. The key Williams. And you're like, yeah, like, I don't need to come to this show. Like, it's just really an expense for me to have fun at a show. Like, it's me competing for fun. And I don't really need to be here. That was the year that second place was Michael Lockett. Yeah. So yeah. And you're like, I put all this effort in and I took all this gear and put my body through all this fucking brutal torture for two more weeks. For two more weeks after the show I just did. And then I'd send in there looking at a team and they're like, what am I going what am I doing? Why am I here? This ridiculous. You know, I'm going to keep on easily wins. Like, yeah. Easily. Like, you know, as easy as any regional show you've ever seen in your life. Yeah. We're somehow win. That's so easy when that show. Like, you know, take everyone back stage is like, oh, yeah, a keen. Yeah. So yeah, that that'd be the last time that happened to me. But yeah. I remember, I mean, I always knew at those levels that chances are there would be someone. But 20, 10 USA's, I didn't make it to weigh in because I saw Jason Hus picture six weeks out. And I was like, all right. Well, that's the overall winner. Yeah. Oh, I guess we'll shoot for second. Like, I mean, you knew he, anybody who knows that era, as soon as he released those photos, you're like, he was not. He was not. This is done. So but I have so many great like backstage stories. Actually, at the at that show, I think you're talking about 2013 around, right? Yeah. Yeah. So I was talking to him, um, lock it and someone else I can't remember. We were all just talking waiting to go out and this kid walks over his eyes are enormous. And he goes, hey, and we turn away with something and he goes, what do you guys do? Like, he had won some small show and just showed up to North Americans and his whole life changed backstage. He's like, oh, it's funny because my friend Daniel, he's won the past week about two years ago. He told me the first time he went to New York to North Americans, he goes, this is where bodybuilding dreams go to die. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't even let's go there. I just went to a good state level show. There was a Titan classic and I knew I was like, okay, so I'm a state level guy. And why don't I, I don't have a schedule, I can do whatever shows I want, why don't I pick one out of state? I was like, why don't I pick one in Southern California? Because then I can go to like, train it gold and stuff like that. So that's what I did. And I did the 2017 Titan classic. And I remember like it was kind of, it was cool because it was like it was, it was, it was, it was, it was when a tamer shows. So I met him there. Yeah. Great. And I remember like, I was supposed to bring up my registration. Instead, I had, I pulled like the wrong thing out of my bag. I had like my flight information and I handed it to him. You know, like, in front of a room full of people that were all sitting down. He was like, is there anybody if I don't have their registration? I was like, oh, yeah, me, I'm going to reach in my backpack and walk in and be like, no, this was your flight information, son. So that was fun. But good, that same room, everybody, you know, gets ready to weigh in then at the end of that. And I can't remember his name for the life of me right now. But he put it this way after that show, he went to Nationals in one. He worked with me, Loves. And now he competes in the 2012, like legit instantly was a two, 12 competitor. But he was the guy who peeled down in front of me to get on the scale. And he was in my class as a late, heavyweight. I didn't, he didn't have to peel down. I just saw his calves. And then I saw his, I had odds. And I was like, oh, my, and then I saw his back. And I was like, this dude is legit a pro already, you know? Yeah. He's winning the whole thing. My, the guy who used to own I for Steve Nelson, he had that same thing. He was doing the, um, uh, with downstairs, the border states. And the day. And he was he'd once some shows. So he's like, you know, he's going to win. And he's like, you know, he was peeled everything was on point. And he said at weigh in, he sees the sky and he peels down. And he's like, who the fuck is that? And he's just nuts. And, uh, he's like, you know, he starts to ask him like, where he's from. He's like, oh, I'm not from the States. I just came in, they invited me to come do this show. And he's like, oh, lovely. And it's James. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Yeah. So when Dennis James flies over from another country to kick the shit out of his. Yeah. A rough day at the office. He's like, yeah. And then you know, it's bad when it weigh in, they're like pushing him to go do the, the national six. Do national this year. Right. You know, like this show hasn't even happened yet. They're like, anyways, this is over. Let's move on to nationals. Yeah. I think that guy has that though. You know, those moments, I remember Chris Cook told me that he did nationals the first time. And he had one like the anchorage. And he smoked everybody. So he went down to nationals. And he was running late, for way or not for way, but to get on stage. And he runs back to the back. And he sees all these guys lined up. And he goes, oh my god, when did the heavies go? In the chaos, what do you mean they haven't went? Edios, why are you all lined up? The guy goes, we're middle weights. And he goes, that's what I knew. I spent $2,000 to watch about he was like, show. Yeah. He thought he was talking to super heavy weights. And they were middle weights. And he was like, oh shit. That's wild. So it was, um, Remi Burmiga, who does a lot of the shows around here and told me his story. I mentioned it to you guys a long time ago. And I believe it was Jim Quinn, who was weighing in front of him. And it was the Remi said it was the year. He was like, I went all out. Like I really pushed this year. I put on a lot more weight. And I knew like I'm coming in the heaviest I'd ever been. And he was just he was just like over the heavy weights. You know, he's just like, standard heavy weight. I mean, I don't know what he was. Two 20 or something like that. And anyway, he says then then Quinn gets out, gets on the scale in front of him. And he's like 60 pounds heavier than Remi is. And he turns around. It looks at Remi. But both of his hands and his shoulders is go bigger, go home, right? Remi. I'm really going to do it this time. I put all my heart into it. You know, push this heavy as I could get. That rolls in it 280. Jim Quinn. Was either Jim Quinn or Mike Quinn? I can't remember which one it was. I couldn't be neither one of them. Right. Yeah. That's exactly what both of them would have done. Yeah. I also love that you turned around and gave that to him. I think he's fantastic. Yeah. Go home. Go home. Go bigger. Go home, Remi. Yeah. Yeah. I've told this. I've told this story before, but one of my favorite, like, sort of a guy coming in and winning a show was my second show. And I went there thinking I was big. I got one of my first shows. I went to my second show. I was like, ah, here we go. You know, I'm big. I weighed in at 250, right? Should have weighed in at 235, but we didn't at 250, thinking I was big. And there was this guy at the weigh-ins who had this giant beard and a big ponytail and he like looked really rough. Like he hadn't, like his beard wasn't trimmed. It was like unshaven, homeless like, yeah, right, full out. And he looked small. He wasn't big. And they called heavy weights and he stood up and I was like, he barely looks like he weighs 200 pounds. And there was me and this other big dude and this other guy that was like 230 and like a couple of 250 pounders means that a big dude. We all stand up for heavy weights. And this before there was a super. And so we all go and get in line and we start weighing in and then that dude's right in front of me. And he strips down and he's a skinless, like just this anatomy chart of striations, it steps on. He steps on the scale, standing relax, glutes are completely ripple chips. He threw skin. Yeah. I'm like, oh, I've lost the shows guys. Give me a distraction. So pretty. And then he weighs in at like 202. Yeah. Barely 200 pounds. And then the next day, I go back to my hotel and I'm like, God, that guy was so ripped. Maybe I can beat everyone but him. And then the next day we're back backstage getting ready, like heavy weights, you know, and he shows up and he's shaved his face. Okay. Over over the course of the night. Oh, yeah, and his hair was long. He had this long. That's where he had long like cone in here. And he showed up the next day. And it was pulled back tight in a little top not. Yeah. And then he had his face shaved totally clean. And it was like like a dead skeleton. And he rolls in and starts posing backstage to like get going. And just try to sip horseshoe. Yeah. And then afterwards I said, what do I got to do to get his ripped? Did you? And he goes, oh, that's my coach. And he introduced me to his coach Brian. And then I won the next year. Ah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I used that coach. And I won the next year. Yeah. Nice. Just that shock, you know, and CM shaved face. And next day and realized his face was like a skeleton, like a dead person. I was like, oh, God. Yeah. And even shaving the day before you would have known. Yeah, it was hidden. He said, it'd be beard, right? Yeah. And then you see the face and X-Day. And they're like, oh, I would have known if I would have just, you know, I could have taken that loss earlier. No. Yeah. A lot of times at the state level shows, especially it's not the biggest guy that you have to worry about. And I learned that shows up like that. I remember seeing guys that were just like massive and close. And I'm like, oh my God, that guy's three times my size. And you get on stage with him. And you didn't ever have to worry about him. He just wasn't in shape. You know, it's the little guys, you know, that and you learn that. It's interesting when you work with somebody who's never competed before. And they're like, well, I want to come in as big as possible. And I'm like, no, no, you have what you have. You want to come in as lean as possible. You want to freak people out with how lean you are. Because you're not going to get any bigger between now and the show. I mean, you're like, grow a little bit. Yeah, you grow into the show. But it's not like a levrony thing. You need to get absolutely lights out peeled, you know. And they learn that though. Because then you go to the show and then you realize, like, oh, it wasn't the biggest guys who won. It was the best guys. The leanest guys, you know. Yeah. Definitely. That's good time. No. Absolutely. Good eye openers. I think that was a good place to to call it was around the story. What do you guys think? That was a long period. This gives all of it. Yeah. You know, I feel like we're given the people something. Some some value. We hit six convertiters. I don't want to hear this. That was phenomenal. We have to see with his terrible crappy comment, sensal media. Exactly. You got a lot of editing to do. So you should probably start now. Oh, we said, film my things that did not like we were not intentionally saying like, you know, all that. But there was like 10 times today. I might just leave it as a test. You know, okay, we'd we'd draw a drop the M word. I was like, oh, no. Yeah. Yeah. He didn't even mean it in that way. Either. Yeah. Find a way. I find a way. Okay. Quick before we go, I got to say to Scott, we are enjoying Fargo. Oh, we are we are however in season four, which is the 1950s Chris Rock season. Oh, yeah. And it's definitely a little slower moving. This season has been like weird, a little weird. Like there's a lot going on with these Italians and the black guys. Yeah. It's right. Yeah. Yeah. There really is. And but I know there's a payoff. And I know that season five is supposed to be I'm apparently amazing with John Hamm. Season five is the only season that you could watch that doesn't tie in. It's from what I understand. It doesn't have any tie-ins with the the various ones. But it has the same feel the same vibe, the same types of people. Now that you know that area of the world and the types of people that exist in it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was a form you know, it was to what you're watching. And now are they done the show or is there a season six coming? I heard there might be, but I mean, it's been done done. So also have you seen the brothers that train at your gym since we talked about it or on the show? Yeah, remember I, Marito, did I? Yeah. Yeah. What did you say? Yeah, the two brothers. Yeah, but did you see them since you saw? Yeah. No, I haven't seen them yet. You train in the morning. And I haven't seen them yet. But today's a holiday. Yeah. And the gyms always have real mix up on the holiday. Okay. Okay. When's training in weird hours and I'm going in right after this. So if I see them, yeah, Brad and Todd, if you see them tell them that I'm a huge fan and act. I'm going to ask, could you get a picture with them for me? I'm going to try to get a picture of them in their outfits. Sorry for that for you. I'm going to see if I can get one. Yeah. That would be epic. Yeah. I'm going to see if they have one. You don't even know. That show goes down in history as one of my favorite TV shows ever. It really goes. Yeah. We just saw the episode where the, you know, the lunatic Italian brother. Oh, yeah. Remember when he's in that bar with that kid in that bartender and he gets a little frustrated? Not specifically. No, he does a little on a living. He's a little bit on a living. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's like so he's such a short loop. You can. He's in. He's in. He's in. Yeah. And like just complete psychopath. And you're like, Oh, my Jesus, you can't take this guy anywhere. Yeah. So in his dynamic with the other brother, who's actually running things. Jason. Yeah. Yeah. What's his name? So I can't. Yeah. Silver. Yeah. He's been Jason Schwarzenegger. Jason Schwarzenegger. Yeah. He's great as that brother. Yeah. Yeah. He was in another show board to death. I think. Was that it? No, not board to death. Well, he's also in all those pal, those who's a guy that made like Desjarling Limited and the Budapest Hotel and. Oh, yeah. Right. City. He's a great. He's a great. Very. He's like all of your guys movies. The guy that has a weird color palettes. Is that Paul. No, not Paul Thomas Anderson. I can't. One of those directors. Yes. Not West Anderson. West Anderson. Yes. He's been in all the West Anderson movies. Yeah. I used to go to in art school. Used to go to those films in like the Ann Arbor Art Theatre's and stuff. You know. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So Dusty. We're enjoying Fargo. There you go. I might have to. I might have to dip into that because that's been good. We're watching Mind Hunter. Oh, that's supposed to be awesome. Dusty. That was also one of my favorite shows. Yeah. Yeah. It's like a slow bread. Yeah. But it is like so good. There's a lot of people that really want them to do that show continue to do that show. I've heard that. They've tried to buy it and sell it and keep it going. And we watched that. And then we went to true detective right after season one, which was a nice kind of direction to go. The Dusty, the the 70s in that. Like the the the the vibe you get from like when they're in like the bar scenes or just the cars they're driving. I love that. I get exactly what I'm smoking on the airplane. I'm like right about that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. My Hunter was so good. That's a great. If you got to watch that Ron, that's it's definitely up your alley in realizing that that all the things that are normal to us that we know about criminals and stuff that someone had to come up with that. Yeah. For eight the terms serial on a line. Right. Because that shows kind of back when this is all like a like a new thing. Yeah. They were the first pro. They were the well-being pro. Yeah. So pro-file is yeah. It's fantastic. I'm like we finished my blend by the way. Great. Which was incredible. Yeah. That was a good show. That was a good. And I feel like they set us up for a really featured installments. You know what we did. That Harry character is he's like the John Wick of England. Kind of. Well, he's going to have to. He's going to have to. He's going to have to contend with her that. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. After you're whatever. His name is. Yeah. You're not going to tell me to go fuck myself. Are you? And he's like, man. Yeah. That he did. Yeah. Crazy. We'll see how that goes. You know how well-sealed that goes. She's got some power. She's a very woman. Is it cat McHellister? Yeah. Cat McHellister. Yeah. She's a great actress too. Everything. She's in. She's badass. The way they played that. Yeah. She was in, wow. Oh, is arc. Remember? Oh. Yeah. Yeah. She was the lawyer. Yeah. That's right, man. Yeah. The way they played her up too. They're like, how did you get that? Bill, Cat McHellister. Well, like, well, how did you get cat McHellister favor? No. You don't want to. And that's like you don't even know who she is for like seven episodes. Yeah. You know, just the night is still like fear and people. Yeah. Like if these guys are nasty, if Richie is nasty, this guy is nasty. And Cat McHellister's a level up from that. He's a level up from the guy with the chainsaw. Yeah. Exactly. She can make a phone call and make him stop. Yeah. She can make, does that guy listen to her? Yeah. Yeah. Great stuff. Okay. Enjoy your TV, everybody. Yes. We're, we're happy to hear the Tampa Wake Good Dallas coming up next. Yes. What about Jack Ryan? Yeah. We just started watching that. Yeah. We just always hit like the TV show. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. We thought that maybe I was like, Ron and Dusty mentioned that. I've seen that. Yeah. It's like, yeah, it's supposed to be solid. It's, it's got Jim from the office in it. Doesn't it? That's all we can see is Jim. You know, that's all. That's all we can see. Yeah. That guy has a great story. You know, he, he moved away to New York to become an actor, model, whatever. And he decided, like, everyone thought it was a terrible idea. And he decided he was going to stop. So he called his mom and said, hey, I'm going to come home. You know, it's just not working out in his mom's like, I think he should wait. Think she'd give it a couple more months. And then he landed the office. Oh, wow. Like, literally, he was ready to pack it up in his mom's like, not yet. And then I think he said, like, within two weeks, he got the office. Wow. There's a lot of examples of that. Like close calls. Yeah. Like I love this story about how Rogan gave up his LA apartment and was going to go back to Boston. Because he was on like a show. Like, I canceled. Like he did a pilot. I can't. Oh, yeah. Then, you know, the stand-up was going okay. But nothing had really gone crazy. And he was going to come back. And then he literally got rid of his apartment. So he didn't. So he was like, had to move out. And then he got news radio. Who? Which was that sitcom that went five years and then all of a sudden. And then, you know, fear factor. And then all of a sudden, he said, oh my god, I made it. You know. Yeah. Then we can be his own thing, you know. After that. Don't quit everybody. It's a lesson. Do one more North Americans. You can win. Even if you got 12 last year. Don't quit. Yeah. Okay. Thanks guys. Remember everybody like share. Subscribe, comment and bring them down. Yes. And remember, I am you in dot com. Go to iamutin.com. Get your ISO surge. Get your, oh, your hardcore ISO. I guess get your all in. Get your mind FK and everyone should get on the gear. Remember, hit the big greens. Don't forget. Yeah. And hit the big greens at night before bed. They are great. Chocolate flavored green. Oh, that sounds good. Let's see. I remember. I've consistently used an entire career as soon as Jan and no chocolate. I just throw it right in my shake. Okay. I didn't know it's there. I remember I asked Clarita goes, it's really good. It tastes awesome. And I go, what's it tastes like? And it goes, it tastes like chocolate. You who. Oh, I was like, oh, I don't know what you who is, but I had to look it up. Take a yoga drink. Well, now you know what you who tastes like. Because you have big greens. So yes. And the chocolate you're right, Dusty. I've never been a greens guy. But the chocolate greens can go in my chocolate shake. And now it's not another drink. I have to choke down. Just one delicious beverage. Okay. Okay. Thanks everybody. Remember, it's just bodybuilding.

But too, every once in a while I remember, I have had lunch with a murderer. Yeah, right? It was an amazing athlete, the nickname was Flying Ryan. Craig and Kelly had enough sense to plant the debit card by the lighter fluid, burn the drag war, and falsely accuse Melissa of stealing money from that. Is that Edgar Fletcher beside me? Sure is. It sure is. Again. Look at these guys. Pretty many Matt to fall there. The late Matt to fall. Yeah. He was a big dude. And that is a classic early 90s, 90s era outfit that Matt's wearing. And he said, he goes, oh, you know what? I don't take direct anymore. No, what you do. He's just, you get a bit of blow. And you just have a nice relaxing evening with your girl at home. Vegas 8. Those two up from the moment they got there. Hey, everybody. Welcome to It's Just Body Building. react. I'm your host, Big Ron Parlo. Of course, Dusty Hancha, the producers got me now. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and bring the bow. Yes, I am you and dot com. Get your ice search, get your all in, get your mind FK. And everyone should get on the gear with Dusty and Big Ron are your codes. Avoid people. Stay home. Go anywhere, get it delivered to your doorstep. You're going to have to put clothes on. If you train at home in your garage, you're totally set that way. OK, so we've got to react today. And we are reacting to classic memorabilia, Craig Titus. Yes. Oh my goodness, sakes. We've got a bunch of stuff here too, Ron. So this is the documentary. So yeah. So Craig Titus was like, he was in the body building scene from like, you know, 93, 94. He showed up at USA's. Yeah. And he turned pro in 96. Yeah. At the USA's. And he was convicted of murder in 2003. Well, that is a full arc. Yeah. And we're going to watch it in reverse. This is the date. Clark County corner, Mike Murphy, had a mystery on his hands. A charred corpse discovered on Sandy Valley Road. So you have a body that is burned at the on recognition. You know, it's female, but you have no idea what this is. I've never watched this. Fingerprints were not cross the ability because of the burning of the body. You know, the facial recognition was not a possibility. He named the body, Sandy Valley Jane Doe. It would take weeks to make a positive identification. It was found that the face was covered with duct tape. So the next question is why would that occur? I can tell you that there was evidence that there was some type of an accelerant used. An accelerant, like lighter fluid, used to start and spread the fire. In our investigations, the sooner you can identify your victim, the sooner you can identify your systems. It was done on December 14, 2005 that lost a very calm aside detective. He doesn't have a solution. And he no Kelly came upon the smlovering car. The fist is as it was. The whole dash was burned away. The steering wheel was completely consumed. Fire investigators that came out to the scene told us that we're looking at a fire and access to 1200 degrees. I certainly believe that the objective is not to destroy the vehicle, but to destroy the body and the trunk. I'm glad we're pretty sure she was dead when that happened. That'd be a terrible way to go. Knowing that the plates checked back to Kelly Ryan, detectives headed to the hospital. And that's the detective Wilson got his first surprise. One of many to come. So I just went ahead and knocked on the door. She says, well, I'm Kelly Ryan. What a crazy story. The most famous fitness athletes in the world. She was an amazing athlete. The nickname was Klein Ryan. Megan Foley trained with Kelly and was her. She briefly at the top of her game. She didn't even show up. They're airing crazy. Different things in the air than nobody else. Back when fitness was like huge. Yeah. Kelly was born to be a star. She had second at the Olympia couple times. Finish. He's been itch. She was a little kid. Once in on the US. Yes, she does. She sounds like quiet. My legendary Olympics coach Bella Corolla. This is a great sport because it's a combination of everything. In a 90's sport, a little bit here. Just get to what the Craig made her a champion in her sport. Yeah. Let's get introduced. Kelly was already insecure about her looks. And it crags in systems had multiple plastic surgeries. Take a look at the dramatic change in her appearance over the years. You see this athlete that's so strong and so wonderful yet when it comes to her marriage, she was the weakest person on this planning. She would just roll over and allow him to do anything that he wanted. Including bringing Melissa a beautiful younger woman into their house. It's always the other woman's father. Yeah. In Melissa. Kelly was at her breaking point. Did Melissa ever say that she and Kelly would argue? Not really, but it was getting a little weird towards it. And then she was getting she wanted her. The parade is like an assistant, right? A frontal assistant. You could put it that way. Okay. Craig and Kelly accused her of stealing their car. Oh. The same one found burning in the desert. There's their elegant car. So you can still hear. Melissa stole that Jaguar right. And then jumped in the trunk. And that's not all. This is a little bit clear. This was Melissa's room. Except it didn't look like this. It was completely trash. The couple led detectives into Melissa's messy room to show them this debit card, which they claimed Melissa was using to steal from them. They said this is the card that Melissa had. They were really intense on me focusing in on this card. And lucky for us because that card later in our investigation became very significant. Well, as you leave the house after these interviews, what do you think? Now I'm thinking Melissa James is the one that's probably in the trunk of that car. And I'm thinking that one or both of them may have had something to do with Melissa's death. Yeah. We will long way from proving at at that point. After detectives, there's a lot. So did Craig and Kelly. The spans and the Taser goes. Yeah, I was going to say they found a Taser there. Turnied Paul police who went back to Craig and Kelly's house with a search warrant. Right on the edge here, there were some, some Taser down. So we had to do it. It's a Dio. Yes, you could see him. When a Taser is fired, it also shoots out dozens of tiny dots similar to confetti. They're identified by serial number when you look closely at them with a magnifying glass. The serial number of the cartridge that they were fired from. The dots matched the Taser. Gun Craig had given Megan. We believe the Melissa was shot with the Taser. And that's a five second ride of 50,000 volts. And that whoever was on the other end of the Taser kept pulling the trigger. And Megan, wasn't the only friend who was implicating Craig? What did Craig tell you? Well, he first walked in and he said that he had finally got to see somebody. What does somebody looks like when they get hit with the Taser gun? Huh. And he said you should have seen the scope flop. Jeff Schwimmer was one of Craig's closest friends. So he's just going around bragging. He thought it was fun. Jesus. With all that evidence, police put out a warrant for the arrest of Craig's an interview with him, then right. To have steered. Yeah. And she became in raid. She jumped him back again. I grabbed her on the neck. Strangled, choke, held, restrained. Can I'm screaming stop, calm down, stop, calm down. Just wanted to have this. That calm down, stop. Just pack your **** out of my house. That's it. It'll tell you, scream stop. And then it stops. That's it. It's the end of it. According to Craig, Melissa then ran into her bedroom and slammed the door. He then went upstairs with Kelly about 40 minutes past. It quieted down. We went downstairs and she was dead. And I tried to revive her. We seemed like a long time. And I couldn't. Craig claims that he and Melissa and Kelly had been getting high on cocaine, pain killers, and crystal meth for days leading up to the fight. I believe in it. Yeah, we're. Melissa took things too far. I heard nothing. You know what that is? Yeah, you know, these have been shooting those drugs for days. In fact, the autopsy report revealed their were enough drugs in Melissa's system to kill her, including a fatal level of morphine. But how did it get there? Well, there's Craig's story that she OD. And then there's what Megan Foley told police. He held her down and Kelly took a meal and shot a needful of morphine in the neurolog. Just tell me whether those allegations were true or it's ridiculous. Craig insists everything that happened after they found Melissa dead from the burning of her body. This was a complete shot for a bodybuilding girl. Oh, because they were scared. You said you were. Like you remember all this happening right? Yeah, Craig and Kelly had enough sense to plant the debit card by the lighter fluid, burn the drag war, and falsely accused Melissa of stealing money from that. That doesn't sound like two people that are panic sounds like you are meticulously thinking this through. Well, no, that's we were terrified and still doing drugs and continuously doing. And it was all bad. You've lied to cops. You've lied to Melissa's mother. Why should I think you're lying to me right now, Craig? I don't know why you shouldn't take a while in right now. Oh, I can do his tell you that's what happened. Well, there's really a two in his mouth. Let's kill him and make it happen. You will go through this. Sam is in. He's got a couple of ends before. In before his ends. Yeah, yeah, you had to go old school back then. I just tried to have a seat and man did Melissa's mom mora and best friend Samantha have traveled across the country to be in court. This is the first time. Cut down. I'm going to be in the room with these two people who took my friend's life. The only thing worse than losing a child. I would imagine is losing a child in this matter. If your dog, if your pet is both, they should die. You wouldn't give it a burial like this. So we know what happened. What they do? Oh, yeah, they both go to jail, right? Kelly both go to jail. Most unrecognizable from her cover girl days speaks for the first time to the court and mora. For the past two years and seven months. For her soul searching and many hours of reflection. I have questioned my own actions in my very soul. I am truly, truly, starving. That's what happens when you go for bad boys. Both in court and... You get Melissa's plan. We know where this goes. We are. I think we've both been through 55 years and prison for him. Is that what he ended up getting? Yeah, it's... Yep. Legally, Craig Titus admits to murder. But personally, he refuses to accept true responsibility for his actions. I'm assuming that I'm sick and have my actions after Melissa passed away. It was all... John and Duce, it was all. Ridiculous. I'm so sorry. This happened. I don't know what her mom is. Nothing he says could ever bring me peace. No kidding. Everything that comes out of his mouth is a lie. Could you please raise your right hand? So... It's one. Yeah. So, wow. That was a trip. Yeah. I remember people that were in the know, like in LA world. Right, right. Right, Zine's magazine world. Yeah. I guess as soon as they started dating, and they were together for years. Like when they started dating it, like went on for years. They got married and everything. I'd write it. Yeah. Anyways, when they started dating, I guess as soon as it happened, everyone was like, oh, no, it's terrible idea. Kelly's America sweetheart. I don't know what she's doing with that guy. Yeah. Right. I don't know what she's doing with that guy. It's terrible. And I guess it was like everyone in the magazine was right off the bathroom. Kelly's with Craig. She's getting it. Get her heart broken. He's such a dick. It's not a, you know what I mean? And it went all the way to that. You know, I just, I remembered this. I don't know where they're at. I have, they were given to me by Carl LaNore. The, they had the audio recordings of his prison phone calls while he was being held. Oh, and he had conversations with his lawyer, conversation with his friends. It was hours of this stuff. Right. And it was just Carl, they had it. Like a lot of this stuff isn't out. And like I think I might be the only person that has these now. But there's one point where he was talking about like quieting witnesses up. But he was like, I've got an idea for a screenplay dusty. And the main character is going to, you know, take a knife. And he's going to, you know, like, I can't remember what it was. But it was like, we weren't really talking about a screenplay. But it's like, you know, that there's a witness needs to be handled, you know, kind of thing. You know, it's, my story is called Handling that witness. Yeah. It's the name of it. It's called Handling that. Yeah. Yeah. It was a crazy time because I remember when it happened for those who have no idea how this is, there were so many things that just proved they were, I mean, beyond murder, they proved they were off their rocker. Like, they went into the store and paid for the lighter fluid and everything at Walmart the night for what happened on card. Yeah. They're on video cameras. Then you got to figure it about rope. Everyone understands it's even said in like rape allegations like yell fire and people come running yell something else. And they don't. So you got a lot of desert to get rid of a body and you up to go with a fire that can be seen from the street in a car. You, oh, I mean, just everything about it was three words dusty. Math. Yeah. More okay. Yeah. I mean, what a mess. And, you know, so the next. If they would have just left the body laying in the desert, probably would have never been found. Yeah. There'd be a better chance. Or at least a moment. It's wild. Did you get a hole? I don't know. There's a lot of desert out there. So yeah. Yeah. It's a better than it just holes in it. Yeah. A lot of holes in the desert and a lot of problems are very no. Yeah. But yeah, they were a mass Vegas eight. Those two up from the moment they got there. I got let's rewind the hands of times and see him prepping for the old. Yeah. All right. So people who don't know who it is can see the best version of Craig. All right. So I remember Craig. He, oh, I met Craig first time I went to Goldsmith. I see was one of my. My first run-ins. He hadn't won the US AZ. He had to get ready. He was six weeks out. It looked crazy. Oh, look at it. It's the same house. Yeah. The same house. And that's when Detective Wilson got his first surprise. Same house. Sorry. So you're in the run? He's actually not in the run. Yeah. So I knew Craig for like he used to. He used to come in guest pose where I lived for. He came several years in a row to guest pose. Okay. So I kind of like saw I'd see him again and be like, Oh, hey, Ron, you know? Yeah. Really funny. There he is. Better for the up here again. My head. This is. Well, this is 2002. So this is three, three years before. No more watching. And it was my wife and I moved to. But that's it. This is all right. So I remember he is doing a guest pose in one time. Yeah. And I said, hey, how is your protocol changed from when you, you know, where an amateur to it now is a pro. Yeah. Drawing out before a show. Yeah. Because he looked amazing at the USA. He's like when he got his protocol. He was like clear winner of the pro card. And he said he goes, oh, you know what? I don't take direct anymore. No, what you do is you just get a bit of blow. And and you just have a nice relaxing evening with your girl at home. You have your last meal and you get back from the competitor meeting. And you just, just do some blow and just chill out and relax and just get that Cortez on it and get to a Cortez own down. Yeah. Yeah. And I was like, get that real-time. What about sleeping? Is that part of it? Yeah. Like you don't need that. Yeah. I remember what it says you got. What a crazy guy. What a crazy guy. What a crazy guy. The Coke, it drives you out. Yeah. The Coke, drives you out. Wow. He's like, he's like, we might have been doing that backstage. So he didn't work for some year. That was years ago, but I do have the audio. He had his timing was bad though. That's what it's like. It was it's like the night before. Yeah. He drove to the watch. Yeah. Get just throw that blow-protein. Throw to call like a wall and hope that sticks. Yeah. I mean, he had a really great physique too, you know. Oh man. That time, it's the top 10 guy in a very tough era. Yeah. Trying to get everything time for Saturday. What's his hat say? Get hard. Get hard. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha. That's a great hat. See. Think about Sherry to be the last year. Sherry. King come all in. King. Oh, Sherry. Remember that? You know, it's first name. Yeah. They went at it, didn't they? I was one of the greatest few. It really was. He's treated me. He met to fall there. The late, the late Mat to fall. Yeah. He was a big dude. And that is a classic early 90s, 90s era outfit. Mat's weird. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They're talking about the last time I saw Mat to fall. Huh huh. Come on. Yeah. He was humongous. Right? His arms were like 23 easy. Maybe 24 like they were huge. Yeah. And he was sitting at the muscle tech booth signing autographs. And he had to sleeve the shirt on. And I think he had just loaded his arms. Like hard. Hardly stated. Because he had a little band aid on both triceps. Just left him. And then he had a little band aid on both biceps. He just left him on. And just went signed autographs. And he's just signing autographs. Talking to people taking photos with his big arm. Maybe he looks like multiple last iterations from the Razer. He had any grown hairs. Yeah. Yeah. All in specific spots. But his arms looked pretty good. Yeah. He didn't look. You know how to do it. And I was like, did you have to do that like an hour before the expo? Yeah. You know what? It's my second life here. It's a dream come to be on this place. First place. Just when I get up there and hear the broad screen. I'm already feeling it. So I think the top 10 is here, which I have every day. And he will. He killed it that year. Dusty. He killed it. I killed it later. I said he's doing it. Basically helped me. Take conditioning to another level to get. You know that draining of during you get. We could be to. His skin was so thin. Some were evil. So when he just wrapping that out. It worked. I mean, he showed me how to get conditioning. There's a first time he used going. So, you know, we didn't know how much food to feed me at the end according to his diary. But now I know once I get to the shape that Dorian had me in. I have to remember. That me as a bodybuilder. I have to eat. I don't I not remember him working with Dorian. No, I'm running after him. I had the exact right now too. To fill me out of here. So I'm going to do. I really want to show you guys when he turned. I'm going to say that. Yeah, let's see that. Yeah. The 96. This is incredible. You guys. Let me see if I can pull that. Needless to say, I was going to work. Oh, no. He's working with me. As far as my diet and a few other things. A few other things. Yes. And when I come into. Check this out. Craig Titus. Are you looking for when he turned pro? Yeah. Check this out. 97 USA. Yeah. That's what was not. This is in freaking credible guys. In a great. I remember him. It was so good. Yeah. And wait till you see because I rolled this forward. Wait till you see who he was up against. I couldn't believe this was amateur bodybuilding, honestly. Tom Prince. Is that Edgar Fletcher beside him? Sure is. It sure is. Again. Look at these guys. Tom Prince is not even. Yeah. Tom. Tom won the very next year. The time got his pro part the very next year. Edgar Fletcher. Look at that sight leg on Edgar Fletcher right now. Tom Prince blutes is just like all the way down to his. He played with his leg halfway to his knee on that right side. He made Fletcher both of my boots. Tom Prince's side tries nuts. Yeah. What was that side try here? Yeah. That's a weird. I want to roll this forward. Check this out. Any good. I want to roll this forward. Check this out. Any good. Yeah. Yeah. Gerard Dentie. Yeah. Gerard Dentie. Or Gerard Dentie. Gerard Dentie. Raise on Edgar Fletcher. Delton. That's Rott, Lonnie too. On the announcing. Oh yeah. Lonnie this swammy. Gerard's huge back then, eh? Yeah. He was a monster man. So I feel like we just kind of skimmed through all of this pretty much. You don't know how to do this. I remember in 96 when I met Titus he was getting ready for the Olympia or for the USA's. I mean to turn pro. And that was the time I met him and we did arms together. Yep. And then he's like, hey, if he goes want to go eat come back here at 7 p.m. I'll be done treadmill, go on to the firehouse. So we went back like 630 and he was still on the treadmill. Yeah. And he just covered in veins just walking. He's like, I got two hours over two hours. And he was just two hours and we finished at 7. And we went down to the firehouse and the ordered egg whites. And then he had that dude with them that helped him that alley guy. Yep. Yeah. And then I went at one point and he looks at my plate. And he looks at Adali Gagos. Can I have a French fry? Yeah. And Adali looks at my plate and he looks at me and he goes, if he'll let you can have one. And then he goes, could I have one of your fries and I go, sure. So he took a fry and ate it. And I was like, looking at Adali because they didn't get it. It was like, who? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, Adali. Yeah. Because I backed that in and I'm like, you're just, you're telling them what to do. I don't know. Yeah. And then later on, you're as later we found out that was like, who's coaching him? Yeah. But yeah. And then he was a life coach more than anything because the body was under control. Yeah. Yeah. That's a shame man. He was a great bodybuilder. That, and I honestly was almost more impressed by the amateur competition there than seeing him at the old level. Like just because I had incredible that was for amateur bodybuilding. Yeah. Yeah. Different type of stuff. Yeah. Crazy. I forgot all about that occasionally. And I remember the whole thing. Like, oh, wow. Yeah. Weird. I forgot stuff that was on the message boards. And you know, you guys know how bodybuilders like drama imagine the stories that were floating around. Like today, goob would be all over that. Every day you get a new report on what was going on. Everyone's in a while. I remember I have had lunch with a murderer. Yeah. Right. And like it's weird. Yeah. Not everyone. None of everyone's done that. Can you, let's see. Raise your hand if you haven't had lunch with a murderer. See? Everyone the room's going to look at me. I did raise my hand either. Right. Okay. That's a whole other story though. Was a weird one. Yeah. I don't think any time it's you say another time. Not weird. Is it there any time I can ask you about that story? Because now I'm curious. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I can tell you about it. It's something. So this episode's over. We're doing it. Okay. Okay. Thanks everybody. Remember like share subscribe, comment, and... Well. Yes. And remember I'm eating.com. Good. I'm eating. I'm eating. I'm eating. Mind effects. Mind effects. Mind. Mind. There it is. Sorry. I'm trying to talk fast. And everyone should get on the gear. Okay. Remember. It's just bodybuilding. Reaction. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

Let's talk about the evolution of old school cycles. What's up guys, welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crossland. I'm Scott McNeillie and all of our programming is brought to you by you. The people of Patreon, thank you guys very much for your support. We are brought to you by evalblotanalysis.com. If you're in the UK and you need to get your lab work done, then you can get your labs done by Dave. Go to evalblotanalysis.com. Get your labs done by Dave if you're in the UK and Strom sports nutrition. You can get them both in the UK and the US now. So definitely check them out. Great health stacks, especially for guys on cycle. We are brought to you by trunetrition.com. Get all your protein powder, your creatin, your intro workout and all your other basic body building needs. Use our code, think over there, to get 10% off and support our programming. Thank you to supplementsourst.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. Dave round two, Dave and France. How's it going man? How's the RV life? Halt. Why don't you have the AC on 24 hours a day like a good American would? It is on, but it's still halt. Then your AC sucks. You got to crank it Dave. You got to crank it until it's so cold in there that you need to put on a hoodie and shoes. It was like that last night, but the problem is that we don't have any from blinds because we had some new ones fitted and they were shit. So we took them down. Unfortunately, we've got to green our effects at the front. Man, by the way, guys, we have a fun topic. We're going to talk about the old school cycles that people used to run. Plus of course, we're going to tackle all your listener questions. Now, hey, for everybody at home, understand that this program is for educational purposes only, we don't condone the use of any compounds that we discussed here. First and foremost, Dave is an educator. He's educated the UK police, the military. He works in the court systems in the UK. Our goal here is to create a program of harm reduction Dave so that people can't. People are going to do this stuff, but we want people to be able to stay as safe as possible. And nobody under 18 should be partaking any of this. Go to your doctor if you need any medications. All of that, we are not responsible for blah, blah, blah, blah. All that, Dave, all of that. Now that I got that out of the way. Whew. Yeah. Hi, YouTube. Seriously, man. Here's the deal. We had a listener who commented and he was like, man, is there any efficacy to this cycle? That's old timer from 30, 40 years ago was saying that he would run like, what was it? A mill of DACA, a per week with like, a little bit of debaul. He would do that for eight weeks. And then after that, he dropped all of that and they'd run like four weeks of what was it. Excuse me, wind stroll. And that was the entire cycle. And I've heard all sorts of stuff. My dad's friends back in the day. It was like one mill or 200 mill, excuse me, 200 milligrams of DACA every two weeks was a cycle. You know, like that was the entire cycle. I mean, that's one of the reasons why these old guys are still going is because they, you know, they've never gone about 500 milligrams a week in their life. It is, whether you want to admit or not, the reality is that you know, guys of maintain, I mean, I know a guy. Now, do you have excellent physique? Cycled for 40 odd years? OK. But, you know, he's always been four, 500 milligrams. Let's talk about the evolution of all sorts of... Oh, I mean, that's the, that's something about the very early days because that's even beyond my time. And I know I'm an old far, but there's been also, I mean, ones people will remember will be the old, you know, has to be two to one ratio of tests to decode. I mean, I think there's some people still sign up to that now. So that would have been later. That would have been like as I was getting into it, you know, that would have been like, really 2000s. That was a popular idea. Another one was, you don't stay on the say compound for more than four to six weeks, so you kept continually changing the compounds. Oh, you have to like trick the receptors or something? Yeah, well, that was, yeah, I mean, the theory behind it, obviously not quite correct was that different receptors for different compounds. So you did a receptor out or it wasn't too tired. There's no waiting that we know it's 100 in receptor, but there was something to the fact that if you varied the compound, you varied the stresses. Yeah. So you were changing the negative stresses that the body was having to deal with, which over the course of cycle could to some degree be beneficial. Mentally there was obviously, always a new drug, it's a new compound. So that always fresh in people up when they change compounds. Kickstart. Kickstart lasted for a very long time, like oral kickstart. So even high dose kickstart, where people would drop, you know, get around, grab an hour, in the first week, even though they're only the actual cycle dose was I think it'd be five or six hundred and a million. Yeah, so I did both of those things. That was happening when I started Dave. That was Debal Kickstart for the first four to six weeks is what people would do, 25, 30 milligrams of Debal with their 500 test, sip cycle, or you would double the amount of test, you know, you're using a thousand for the first two weeks. I think I've come to a conclusion, Dave. So back then, cycles were cut off at that 10 week point. So I'm really eight to 12. It was eight weeks was a shorter length, 12 week was pushing it. And then you came off, you did a PCT, you recovered your natural test. So I think that people wanted to get their levels up as quickly as they could versus nowadays. It's like, well, you're already on to your tea. There's no rush, so let the compound build. I think probably the biggest changes PCT. I think that's probably the biggest single changes. You know, I'll last majority of people PCT. And you did two cycles a year, and that was it. Yeah. And that would limit it, because that's all you could get in with a PCT as well, and time off all you could actually get in was two cycles a year. There was the shick cycles, which we discussed a little bit last week, I mean, they, I think. I don't know if he was the first person to push him, but Paul Morrison was very influential in doing short, really eye-dose cycles with absolute tons of gear. But also a lot of changing compounds as well. And he would do that, like we said last week, you know, three weeks of a middle-sust everyday. And then you'd drop another compound in and then some else in and then you were off. And the total duration was six weeks. OK. He was very influential in bringing insulin into the marketplace, though it didn't really gain a huge amount of popularity with him. It seemed to sort of start, then disappear, then come back years later. But he was probably the first guy that really pushed the use of growth hormone and insulin together in a cycle format around there. Because I think here's another factor. But now, everything's kind of homogenized. Like the guys used to be like, oh, what are the guys in the Middle East doing? They look so dry. What are the guys in England doing versus the US? But now we're all online, and we are all sharing all these ideas. Everybody is doing from what I see, more or less, very similar cycles everywhere around the world. But back then, you were kind of relegated to who you were in your area. In your area. Yeah. I mean, a big difference between the states and the UK was the UK. You used to stop all the injectables couple of weeks out. I'm running on all the rules. OK. Yeah. The state's just coming on injectables. And there was always this thing that the US loop was full up. Yeah. But not as greener. And the UK loop was greener and a sort of dirty early in that sense of it. Rawer. But that was because it had the fullness because we weren't on the injectables. We were running on just winds, real. So we were dry. But we didn't have that big for belly pop. Yeah. I mean, there's definitely been, and I to this day, I think there still some things. Germany, if I'm right with this, and I'm sure we've got some views from Germany who will confirm this, that they work on the terminal half life, which is a lot shorter than regular half life. There are a lot of his work on. So they're working on testing, being a half life, a 4.5 days. I don't know about that. I'd have to ask like Roman Fritz. Yeah. Guys, I've talked to in Germany. They're learning from everybody. This thing, please, everybody. Yeah, I think I think like that. Yeah, he's out there. And with the internet, and particularly with this like-or's, and I'm not just saying that's because there's loads of doing now. But this openness discussion around what goes on, people have been exposed to lots of different approaches. And as always, does with these things, you will get these trends and fads that pop up for a while and everyone goes mad on it. But then it settles down to what people see repeatedly working. Right, right. And so there are things that come in that I knew that do stay the course and do get embedded into cycle protocols. But there'll always be the fatty things that come in the last six months to 12 months. And then people give up on them. I mean, DMP was massive for so long and then it sort of died a death and no one really bothers with it that much. Now it's not something you hear a lot of. It got so popular again. Back in part of it, I think, was, some but there was a guy who was promoting it and selling it. So, you know, and because of that, he was doing a lot of content on it. And it became new again because there was a whole generation of guys in the girls in the gym that hadn't had any experience with it. First of the older people were like, yeah, we've been there done that. But it was like, oh, this was new. This is different. We hadn't heard about this. So it was exciting. I think things like that happened all the time, you know? Yeah, I mean, you go about today's a Rubin Robinson, Rubin Robinson was well known for doing Deca-Romus cycles. Okay. You know, this is 70s. And then that came back into faith for a while and there were a couple of people that were a big on promoting that. But it was sort of bastardized and twisted a little bit because a lot of people can't cope with it. So there was, yeah, it's Deca-Romus, but with some debol. So there was some cross-roam beating to juice into it. But, you know, that was something that that Robbie Swall, but I did a lot of it. I don't think it was widespread popular. But then people looked back at the z-eaks and the past and like, how did he look like that? And then they start, because now they talk about their cycles where they didn't do about that. And because it's true. And it's all well I used to do Deca-Rom, I know. That must be the secret. And it's like, no. Probably he's genetics and he's training, but no, you know. Yeah. I would say that we're in a pretty good place now. Things I'll tell you what, after the front loading phase kind of war off, I saw the phase where everybody started pushing really high doses. It became like the Boston Lloyd came out and he was talking about doing these massive cycles. And at the time, people were looking at him and they're like, oh, well, he survived. And he was big. I could do that too. And I would say that there were a number of people that were like, yeah, three grams is totally normal. And it was just average guys where running these really crazy cycles we did. We've seen backlash to that, I think. Now, and now it seems like it's the opposite, man. We have guys who are like, how little can I take? That seems to be the new trend is more average guys that are more recreational lifters, less competitors. And they're saying, well, what's the least that I can use to get a good result, you know? Guy, can I ask you a question? Of course. Seriously, what? Yeah. About Boston. OK. Do you think he generally did the 10 gram cycles, Eclames? Man, let's a great question, isn't it? I mean, it was, having known what four and a half and five felt like. Ha ha ha. And having known what I could achieve on four and a half and five. I always struggled to understand one how he could cope with 10 gram. Yeah. I felt like dog shit most time to be fair. And to why just that sheer level of antibiotics didn't give him more, I mean, he did grow. I'm not saying he didn't grow, but he was never what would cause a mass monster. I mean, he was never knocking on the doors of being a scary, free, Greek. So did he really do it? We know he ran substantial, but did he feel good? I'll say this. So I forget his coach's name when he was very young. It's right in the tip of my tongue. I know one of our listeners will comment with it. So I want to say thank you to whoever it is, or how many ever of you can remember his name. He said, I think we've just got, you've just got a bad with him as he's still all now. He's still in the work. But from what I understood, that coach had always been a big proponent of super high doses. He would take on young body builders that had good potential, and he would gas them up hard with a lot of gear, a lot of orals. And it was a combination of all that. I think that that's what he was brought up in. So I mean, was it 10 grams? I don't know. It sure did. It sure did get him out of a podcast, and you get people listening to him, because it was so extreme at that time. But I am sure that he gasped it harder than most. I'll say that. Yeah, I don't think there's any doubt around high doses. I was just curious as to whether you actually thought it was quite that high. I think a question, man. I guess we'll never have to. It was 5 and 6 maybe, but maybe not quite into the double digits, like he said. But it was his market employee. I mean, he had a few ways of creating interest. Yeah. And that's what I was doing. And the day was his thing. He did it how he wanted to go at the end of the day. And that's down the end. But yeah, he had a few ways of marketing himself. And I just, I often wondered that maybe that was more marketing than reality. But you never know. I mean, people do do crazy shit. Yeah, yeah, love him or hate him, rest in peace, to Boston, Lloyd. And rest in peace to all the other crazy bodybuilders out there that we've had through the years who have really pushed things. Because it's definitely, there's a certain mentality that I think shows up in our sport where people just want to take it to that extreme. You know? I mean, it eats coal or it is extreme. No, I think it says like excess when it comes to bodybuilding. Well, we need this up. We believe you know. Yeah, the leading us to present day, though. I feel like we are in a better place. I do believe some of the big name pros that I've talked to that have claimed to use lower doses. And I've seen moderate doses lower than that. Like we don't have to push it to that absolute extremist, especially if a guy has good genetics, they were cut out for the sport. So that's a whole other conversation. No, anything else we should mention here, Dave, in the last day. Well, we're all about. Oh, yeah. Yeah. We're skipping over the whole like, farm epidemic because that's okay. Oh, no, no, no, the trolley of our own epidemic in the peptide epidemic. The only good thing about the sound, the sound thing was the sounds that would sound like super drool. Yeah, yeah, there was that. And hey, I'm willing to give another try. Why K11, especially the injectable version. I just talked to a pro that we've had on the podcast in the last several months, who was telling me he ran it for the first time. And he had a good experience. Got very strong off of it. Didn't get a negative appetite effect from it. I don't believe that you're going to get any kind of like my all statin benefits from it. But I basically is from what I understand based off of the steroid backbone. So there's some legitimacy to it, you know. Yeah, he's also, of course, isn't it? They all have their places. I think the sound boom created that area for people that would too cautious or wear it to go fully unabolic. And the peptides gave people that were even more wary and option to get into performance enhanceings, drugs without actually really getting into drugs as such. Sure. And I mean, some of the peptides still do time. You know, I mean, some of the growth performance secretives are viable. They're not super impracting the only reason I think they'd been out of the market is because the cost of all those got so reasonable. Yeah, I mean, oh, man was still as expensive as he used to be. They would still be quite popular. I think he's surprised him. So find actual factor about one real. Yeah. Well, hey, listen, guys, if you have any thoughts, I'm sure that all you at home have your old school cycles that you used to run or new people that ran, you know, comment below. We'd love to hear it in comment with your questions, Dave. We have so many questions for this episode. Unfortunately, we're not going to be able to get to all of them. There were like, I have, I think, like 40 questions lined up. That means that if we did 30 seconds between each question, each, that it would only take us 40 minutes to get through the show. And we know that that's what can happen. Yeah. All right. So like I said, guys, leave us questions for the next one. And if we don't get to your question, comment it again. No offense to like, it's not personal. And if you're new here, we'd love to have you along for all of our shows, guys. We have several different bodybuilding podcasts to come out each week. We've got this, you know, gear focused one. We've got the coaching Q and A. We've got Ron and Dusty. We just have an interview with Jordan Hutchinson that's the day we record this. It's coming out. So you guys already see it by the time this is released. It's time for an update on the super draw break down. People love the Anna draw break down. We did. I feel like we did super draw not too long ago. But I don't know. Does everybody else want us to do super draw again? I like I feel like it wasn't that long ago. Was it Dave? I think he will. I would say, yeah, we'll blast into one. Yeah. Yeah. I thought it was around the Olympia. So that's like last October. It's, you know, going out of year. I guess I don't know. I don't know if I have learned anything new about super draw sense and have you. Yeah. Okay. Got to ask guys. Oh, that was the old school dude. Yeah. He had. Yeah. He was doing very low gear back then. And then a deck of debolicycles, switching to wind stroke. Oh, and then somebody mentioned Paul Boris into promoting a local warfare. If you haven't heard of Paul, yeah. He's parts of steroid law that I feel is a worthwhile journey to just explore. But don't sweat the cycles. Completely fucking bunkers. But yeah. Mad genius. No doubt a clever man ahead of his time in lots of ways. Unfortunately, a victim of his own success to a degree. I mean, we lost his grip on reality. I would say towards the end. And there is things about Paul at the back end of his life that were not great. But, but he, he, he definitely took the token walk the wall and pushed the boundaries of what we thought was viable within anabolic's death. OK. So here's a bunch of them. I'm, hey, guys, you say the problem with injectable wind stroke is because it suspended in water and the problem with sterility, which I completely understand. However, what about everything else that's water based, such as growth hormone, alcarnating, glutathione, peptides, et cetera, and why do these not have as high a risk of infection? Um, yeah. So that's there. I could, so Dave, we have like injectable alcarnating from what I understand is not water based. They are using a solvent for that. Um, with peptides, you're mixing that as you go with bacteria static water. And it's such an old, old, old, old. So just so people understand the difference between like a sodium solution that you're having like an IV and that what about Walker as other alcore. So it stays sterile within multiple needles going into it for one of the config of a proper terminology, uh, where as an IV solution does run the risk of contracting a bacteria if it's multiple use, which is why you should be looking at a biostatic, if you're going to be using a water based dissolve compound for multiple injections. So it's a single application. It's not so much of an issue. Yeah. Yeah. And also too, like if you're using growth, uh, it's a lot smaller of an amount. You know, you might, a growth hormone may be like a tenth or a quarter of a mill of water. And it might be going subcube versus jamming in, uh, one C.C., you know, into deep, deep, deep into a muscle. And not to mention to those suspensions are, are, you're very painful. You know, there's a lot of irritation, the microscopic little crystals that are rubbing around in your muscle. And that pain alone can cause your body to wall it off in creating an infection. In fact, you can easily get an infection from like super high dose to gear. What did asked us like, what do you guys think about a 600 milligrams per mill compound? Number one, yeah, you've either got a lot of pain with that or you're using super solvent. So they're going to cause a lot of inflammation, you know. Yeah, no, I'd be, I'm wary of anything of a three hundred of them on this. Anything over that, you are using super solvents to maintain that, you know. Always willing to dose. Yeah. What is that? Yeah. We had a question about over underdosed gear. Okay, so this is older guy says, hey, Scott, Dave, I'm about 60 years old in some. He says, I'm about to be 60 on September 3rd. My birthday is 70 new questions in now. No, my birthday is September 6th. It's coming up. I've been doing TNT for about two plus years now. I mean, decent shape, most of my life and hard labor, uh, that LOL construction work. I'm not trying to do any shows or anything, but I'd like to try to get into my best shape that I can in the for the next 10, 20, 30 years of my life. He's going to be ripped at 90, apparently. Now with TNT therapy, I've noticed after two years of use, exceptional changes in joint pain, back pain and just all around wanting to do stuff. When I work out, I'm trying to get a solid routine. It's mostly later weights and higher reps. Is there anything you'd recommend for guys in my age group? Greatly appreciated. Watch all the ThinkBick episodes on YouTube. Thanks. I think you can train heavy. I think you've just got to be sensible about the volume of heavy work you do and maybe stick to say one exercise, heavy or one big compound heavy in a certain body part. So you're not doing set after set after set of heavy. Form becomes a big factor with age. Quality of rep quality of control, making sure there's no balance in making sure there's no momentum because you're just, your body just can't take those jobs anymore. Yeah. What are you, T? For the guys at the world as a mixing, they're not so labor, I think adding an inability if it's a UT really helps get the muscle warm and allows you to stress the muscle in a way without overly stressing the joint. What's T, you know? Time and attention. I like a five second down tempo. I thought it was like tests on the canoate therapy. That's right. Yeah. Test on the side of the net, that's what you thought wasn't it. Oh, yeah. Now, to you, T, test on the canoate therapy. It's a long one to attention. Yeah. Super, reps allow you to maximize the stimulus out of smaller weights. But what they also do is allow you to focus load on the muscle in a way from the joint. When you can't do that, it takes a little bit for, it takes a little bit of practice. But naturally, when we do a lift, we have three elements that really involved in the list. We have a skeletal frame with our attending attachment at ligament chip and we have our muscle with practice and correct formification. You can really minimize the amount of skeletal frame and ligament engagement, you're getting a really focused, much more load on the muscle. And then you can use less total load because a higher percentage of the load you're using is hitting the muscle. And just for a spitball argument, there's a set you're bench pressing 200 kilo, but you're only getting 60% of that load hitting the muscle. If you can bench press 170 kilo, but get 85% of that to hit the muscle, then you're getting more muscle stimulus, but let's joint wear and tear because you're using a lower maximum weight. Yeah. You know, that can come in, but it does take practice, it does take a bit of time. But I think the biggest thing is you're approached to training and being not reserved but being economical about what you do in the way you load your skeletal frame or where you load your joints because they're only going to take so much grief. And you know, when we're 22, we could go in and throw weights around, we could bounce 200 plus kilo off his chest and all that, a bit sore next day and then they have to be normal. You do it now and it's two weeks of God's confidence. Yeah. You know, and he's just 8 unfortunately. So it's just about being sensible, but it doesn't stop you training every, but I would say it stops you in how you apply that heavy training. I'll just throw a couple things in because I like everything you're seeing here that so if he's about, you know, 60, the amount of volume and load that he can handle now, obviously isn't going to be as great as when he was younger. I know plenty of guys that are older, that are doing too much. They're like in the gym all the time. They're training 60, seven days a week and you're not going to be able to make any progress that way. You're going to get a lot of overuse injuries. You know, I would say back that off, you know, get the most out of what you're doing so that you don't necessarily have to do as many sets. So I would actually even consider possibly going heavier, believe it or not, going heavier, but getting more out of the weight that you're, the shots of the injuries, of exposure to it. Yeah, I found that with, with absolutely pristine control in my weight, my risk of injury goes down. And if I'm pushing to my ultimate max, I can continue to grow muscle, but I can only handle a very limited amount of them. At my ultimate highest strength man, I dialed it all the way back to one day on two days off. And I was at my strongest end at my biggest two, like now in my 40s, right? Which, you know, I tried all through my 30s to grow grow. Yeah, yeah, no, in my 70s. So yeah, just throwing that out there to him is how many days are you training, make sure that your intention is in those sets and then ask yourself, like, well, what can I cut back in? And also to look at your technique, like, are you, are you like locking out your knees on the leg press and stacking your joints? Are you locking out hard or are you trying to use constant motion, constant reps, you know, where you can kind of just keep the tension in the muscle versus like going to the joint set be something I would add to. Those are the first places. I think that anything else gear wise or anything like that would be a band aid. And hey, part of it is going to be wearing tear too. If he's been doing construction in he's 16 now, you're probably going to have some sort of joints. You know, don't make it worse with here with the thing that you love, you know? How about this one? Let's see, this episode has me wondering what a four weeks true TRT, four weeks of TRT plus would be like. Sorry, Dave, I know you hate that term. This could be a fun experiment for a few rounds. Because we're talking about the short two week on two week off cycles. The thing is, if you do, let's say, let's speak because of the CTRT, 120 to 150 milligrams a week. Yeah. And your TRT plus is 300 milligrams a week. So we still load those. We're not doing anything. Nice problem. Whether you do your four weeks of TRT plus, right? The first two weeks is not three weeks of just your TRT. You're still going to be above range. You're not going to be back in range unless you do a clear break to allow your levels to drop down as soon as you add TRT in. So as soon as you go, so I week for a friend of milligrams and do that week, start with TRT. The 300 level that you've achieved in your most famous Guinness start to drop. But then you put your TRT and it's going to push you back up a little bit. So let's do some spitball numbers. These are made up. These are accurate in anyway. At the end of my four week period of 300 milligrams of test a week, I have a circulating in and more level of 60. OK. I'm dropping. If I don't do anything, I will drop that by 20 and more a week. OK. OK. I'm going to get the week one. My animal is four to. But then I put my TRT in which takes me back up to 50. End of week two. I'm 30. Then I put my TRT and it takes me back up to 40. End of week three. I'm 20. Then I put it on back into natural ranges. Then I put my TRT back in and now 30. So I'm just above range. So it's not to week four. Then I'm back into a TRT natural range. And then week five, I'm starting a blast again. So you're basically not really having much time off. No. So it's not. Unless you can do what you want at the end of the day, there's no harm, lots of there's no harm, that's wrong way of pointing it. But there's no judgment in any of you want to do things a certain way. That's entirely your choice. But just make sure you understand what you're doing and how it affects you. So in that scenario, you're not returning to TRT. The only way you'd return to TRT would be 4x300 to weeks of nothing. Then my TRT, then back to my 4x300. Now that would work in that you'd have a complete clear space. But if you're going to go straight from any sort of elevated level into a TRT, just be aware that your period of elevation is going to be extended. Yeah, I would agree with that. I think that that's something to consider. All right, how about this one? We had another guy who was another older guy. He says, uh, love the podcast, great job. Very educational, 65 years old, 140 pounds. I've been working out for 50 years plus. Um, I've done 10 weeks cycles maybe once or twice per year. I've been, it's been a year now since my last, uh, cycle of 200 milligrams of test and 200 milligrams of DACA. Good gains. I'm ready to go again with the same cycle. But now I have EQ in mass, your opinions. What does he mean the same cycle? That's like, hey, Dave, I love chocolate cake every year. I've eaten chocolate cake on my birthday. This year, I'm going to do the exact same thing in each chocolate cake. Finally, I have vanilla cake. Yeah, he's going to need a test base with either of those compounds. He could easily replace the deck with the EQ or the deck with the mass to be fair. I wouldn't run EQ and massed together both even with the test base because of the double anti-Extrusion effect that's going to be there because you're going to get a certain like effect under the AI effect. So I'd pick one of the other. Could run the test deck at plus mass or test deck at plus EQ. Yeah. He's wanting to increase his overall dose in or he could do the test and either the EQ or the mass. That would be my opinion. Another older guy, Dave. These are all that he did. You know, far. It must be. It must be there. Like this guy is 57. I want to look like him, you know, or no, they're like, you know, from the neck down. I mean, I'm like, I'm 65. I look better than this guy. This is awesome. Man, I feel good about myself. I'll watch this show. So, all right. This is, uh, I'm over 60 and I've been training for a whole year in hardly any results. But I've gotten very strong. I do everything correctly. My muscles just don't grow in bulk. Can you guys please help me? He said nothing about his diet. I'm very curious to know. I bet you. I've gotten my. My fist. But first two points would go to one are you natural or are you on T.R.T. Um, because low hormones could be choking your progress. And I'm not saying you need to go on cycle, but you know, if you can at least maintain relatively healthy hormone levels, and that's going to help with your progress. Yeah. And the other thing is where your diet is because even if your diet was crap, if you were eating in excess, you would have gained weight. Yeah. If you've not gained it, whatever, then you've got no excess going in a calorie. So, one thing is you need more calories. But obviously they want to be a decent quality and a good source. So, there would be the two things I'd be looking at where where is my diet from a quality, but also from a quantity point of view, because, you know, the end of the day, if you're training hard, you're gaining strength, which means you're training, you're stimulating progress, but you're not growing or gaining any physical size or weight, then you can't be in enough calories as simple as that. And then the other aspect is where are you hormoneally, and you know, do you need T.R.T.R.T. What's going on with that? It all say this couple things. Number one, diet wise. If he's not getting enough food in, at the place I would start is with your protein intake. I would shoot for, I don't even care what his body weight is. Let's just go to two grams per pound of actual body weight, not lean body mass, but start there. And if you just make that change in nothing else, I bet you that you would see some progress. You could do a lot more with the diet, that's for sure. I don't know what he's doing now, though. Split that up into, you know, four meals, five meals a day. You could make a couple of those meals shakes, you know, 50 grams of protein per shake, but, you know, where every sat figure, it's probably going to be, you know, 200, it's probably going to be anywhere from 300 to 400 grams of protein. 400 might be a little bit high, you know, if he's, if he's 150 pounds, you know, but, so that would be, yeah, yeah. So somewhere in there, though, you know, 1.5 to 2 grams of protein per shake, you're not failing to do it, right? Yeah, I had to think about it. I was like, well, fees, yeah, you might not need that much. We'll go with 1.5 to 2 grams per, because normally I would say lean body mass, but in this case, I'm saying, like, total body weight, you know, which, if it's really obese, I started thinking, well, maybe that could be a problem there, you know what I mean? All right. And you could reach out to, you know, somebody to coach you, reach out to David. I, these are exactly the situations that we deal with every day. Let's see. Oh, this is an interesting point from Dan Smith. He's one of our longtime listeners. He's been following the channel forever. He said, my memory on shorter cycles back in the day, where they were because of the lack of gear. Muscle media, 2000 magazine used to run articles about short cycles. One article was about a guy who traveled in state in Mexico for one week, every month, but didn't want to smuggle gear back into America. From memory, he would take something like one, just an on amp on Friday night, another amp on Saturday and Sunday morning, something along those lines. And then being along, being along acting, he'd have superficial logical levels of testosterone for at least three to four weeks. And then he'd top up again on his next visit. That's interesting, huh? There, there's, yeah, I mean, there will be definitely loads of stories about people base on circumstances. I know a lot of show lots of do that sort of thing. I mean, they'll load up whether they're here because they've got four weeks of show whether they know the guy I've ever been. Yeah. It was not ideal, but you work around the circumstances you're given though. Feedback from the last episode on Anadral profile. He said, it gives me bad headaches. I told him, hey, check your blood pressure. Because that's one thing we didn't mention. It's an notorious for high BP. Yeah, sorry, it is a book of football, but I sure yes. Yeah, a couple people mentioned headaches. No, I used to get splitting headaches off Anadral. Just finished a 10 week cycle of Anadral at 50 milligrams a day, but not for about three week now. And boy, do I miss the pumps? You mentioned that a 10 milligram dose is effective and safe. But how long could you run 10 milligrams? I don't think that was us. He definitely wasn't in that context. Yeah, I wonder if he's been sticking on another. I'm going to say something about my raffle a few cages. Oh, Dave's going to rail a cage just today, guys. Okay. And he's not directed at anyone person, but that comment has stimulated it. If you've been off drugs for three weeks, and you're now looking for just a fashion to go back on drugs within three weeks, because you missed the effect of the drugs. Replaced that drug with any other drug in the world. And you're talking about Anadic behavior. Yeah, I mean, it would be, no, it would be, you've got to develop a healthy relationship with any substance you use. And that means you have to understand that time away is important in the overall management of your health with that substance. It's like alcohol. You know, you want to go out and get drunk. No big deal. Not going to do you do it. Do that every bloody day, every bloody weekend. We're going to have problems. And that's what I want to throw in is that that the element isn't the wanting to do it. It's the willingness to do something that compromises your health. That's where the issue is. So when you start with this chain of thought, you really need to step back into a world, I'm going to admit it. You know, this is, I'm looking for ways to justify more drug use. I've had a successful cycle. Yeah, the pumps have gone big deal. Train art. Workers hard as you can in this natural phase. In getting to the stage you were with the, with the Anavar. And then the next time you use drugs, you will see progression. Yeah. But if you step right back into some form of chemical crooks, all you're going to see Develop is a psychological dependency that I can't grow. I can't progress. I can't do anything unless I'm using drugs. Agreed. Very thin end of a very simply slope that I end up dealing with them the opposite end Two, three years down the line. When people are actually facing problems, but now have this real mental difficulty of stepping away from compounds because they have become so much of their identity. Yeah. I mean, I know someone who had a triple bypass because they couldn't do it. They couldn't leave who they felt they were away. That's an idiot. Yeah, it is. But it's a fact. Now, this is very early days and this makes sound like a big overreaction and potentially it is. But it also sounds really strong warning alarms to me. You're only, I just something in. It's very early in your usage. If you're already down that thought process, just take a moment, step back and just reassess where you are. No Anavaric use is safe in the true meaning of the term. But you can manage risks and you can minimize risks. But there's no safe. You can't just take an animal they can forget about. They have the potential. Yeah. And the 10 milligrams of Anavaric that wasn't a binoc, we've always said, I mean, 5 10 milligrams, it will be beneficial to enhance performance to get a better pump. But it's not going to lay on a bunch of lean muscle tissue for somebody that wants to become a bodybuilder. You know, it's just not the type of cycling that we would use. We've discussed it many times. We looked at that study that Scott Stevenson had. It was like 40 to 60 milligrams was the like optimal. Yeah, dosing for growing muscle. That's not for feeling better in the gym, you know, or being. No, I mean, if you want to feel better in the home, take a pretty workout pump. Home page. Yeah, there are a lot of things you can do in hack. Man, I would honestly say something like growth hormone would be a lot of a lot of growth hormone would be a great consideration between cycles to be able to continue getting great pumps. Not be dealing with the same things that you're dealing with from, you know, any any anabolic steroids. So I'd consider something along those lines possibly. Have a question for you guys. Okay, back more about anadraw. Because we've got some questions on that from last week. What anadraw would be good for sprinting. I have a bottle at home. I do a lot of cardio based high intensity workouts on 200 milligrams of test E cheers. Dude, Dave, I remember trying to run on debol. I got halfway around the block and I couldn't walk any further because my calves were so pumped. Yeah, there's a couple of properties around anadraw that actually would make it sound attractive. But there is one big factor which you just alluded to that makes it very unadracted. Anadraw increases with blood cells, so in a high cardio, high stamina sort of scenario. That's useful. That's beneficial to performance. The issue is going to be the horrendous pumps that are always going to cause particularly light lower black bumps. Which is probably going to make your physical performance impossible to actually even do. Yeah, I wouldn't be the choice to drug of choice in my book personally. But I mean, the ABC and the hemoglobin effect would be beneficial, but the pump side and that element of it would be the night just to slide. It'd be an extreme negative. I mean, I think you've experienced the bout pumps where you walk. Oh yeah. I mean, you've just got to sit down because you're not what's right. Yeah. Anadraw, debol, any of that stuff. Can you get a rebound effect from short cycles on then off until clean? Yeah, absolutely. Dave, I've got a guy that I'm working with right now competing this weekend. He's used only TNT through the whole prep. Okay, and then toward the end last couple weeks, he's like, hey, I can get some wind strobe. Do you think that would help? And I was like, sure, we throw it in. So all he's been on for the entire prep has been wind strobe for the last couple weeks plus his TNT. He is peeled. And now in the off season, he wants to run a cycle. He hasn't really run a lot of gear before, but yeah, so we're going to go straight away. You know, obviously there's factors post show, but the reality is, yeah, it's all in the diet and your insulin sensitivity, right? For rebound, yeah. Yeah, it's, and I think it's hard when you come off the back of a show, because you do. You, you, you want to eat what you've denied yourself for for 16 weeks, 20 weeks, whatever it is you've been doing. But if you can control that rebound, the, the growth you can get off that can be as good as a large cycle. It's surprising how well you can manage a rebound and how much productivity you can get out of it. If you can reverse diet, but each challenge in when you've been dying for so long to then be back on diet and just slowly increasing your food. It's a grind, particularly if there's family pressures as well. Yeah. So this guy says, my first cycle was back in 1983. It was a hundred tabs of sintrex, an apple in. He said, they were five milligrams, not 50 milligrams, and I put on 15 pounds. I don't, I've never seen five milligrams, I'm going to draw before have you. Yeah, yeah, they, it actually comes in as a two point five. Medicles. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, I haven't seen those, I thought that 50 was the popular number. I think when you go back to the 80s, you're, you're really looking now at the medications. You're looking at prescription drugs that were available on the black market. You're not looking at you, yeah. But you said, how much, what was the medical dosing into your hair? Oh, the medical dosing is higher than the number kilo, yeah. Even for children, but I have seen it, it is medically available from 2.5, open. Okay. Oh, we have some Uncle Dave's wisdom questions here. We got a couple of them today. People actually ask you, Uncle Dave's wisdom stuff. So we'll get to those. Let's see if we have time for a couple more. How long have we been running here for Dave? What's going on? 48. All right. Let's see if we can find one more good one guys. And then we'll get to Uncle Dave's wisdom. Let's see. Let's see. There's someone about fake gear. Let's see. Best test doses, not to lose muscle. Second cycle. Man, oh, okay. Here's the guy we missed last week. I didn't glad I saw this one, Dave. He said, hey, man, thanks for mentioning me at the end of the show. Here's my question against this. You didn't get to it. Hi, guys. Love the show. I looking forward to every installment. I just had my bloods done by Eval. Whole experience was superb. I have a question about gyno. As a teenager, I had really bad gyno. Consider for a considerable amount of time. Soar large buildup of hard tissue in the nipple and breast size equivalent of that of my female peers. Oh, poor guy. Then after puberty, it went. It just went. Now, in my late 40s, I feared suffered from gyno. I feared suffering from gyno when hopping on gear. As I thought, I would be genetically predisposed problems. As it turns out, I can blast the test and daca, a gram and a half plus with no AI and have never had a problem. Why do you think this is? And is it a common phenomena? Thanks to you both, Darrell. He says, I also have to ask Uncle Dave because I, for one, really appreciate his pros of wisdom. With Dave being a man mountain and capable of using his size to his advantage and having no doubt been faced with adversity on many occasions, what would be a few tips on controlling temper and knee jerk reactions? I'm quite a fellow, quite a mellow fellow. But everyone has their breaking point and I'd love to know what work to for Dave. Thanks again and keep up the tremendous dependest work. So on the gyno from, if I can read today, geez. So hormonal, the hormonal environment is obviously changed. Do you get people with how you should intolerances? Yes, I'm one of them. Used to be able to go superdally high with each room and have a negative impact from it. So that isn't, I wouldn't say it's common, but it's also not unusual. You know, there are plenty of people out there that do actually co-highest you don't quite well. What's changed in the environment between then and now is very hard to say. You know, through puberty we're developing both hormonally, but we're also developing hormonally receptor-wise as well. And obviously there was a definite amount of sensitivity for some reason at some point. Something you've grown out of, which is quite common in puberty, and gyno that the individual will grow out of the condition. So it's not always a precept for that. It's going to be a problem for the rest of your days. Unfortunately, we're not knowing where hormons were. When you were at a teenager, it's difficult to say what the driving factor is. It could have potentially been that DHT levels were low DHT as a very anti-guino action. That's what. And obviously when you're using antibiotics, you do have a level of increased DHT. So it may have been something on that lines. It may be that you're when you were younger because the DHT was low that you've become particularly sensitive to DHT. So now when you use antibiotics DHT levels that raise in line with your testosterone level are actually a little bit above and beyond from you from a point of view of being anti-guino. Yeah. But it is difficult to say without more data. Now from a ten-per-thing, I found personally the aggression for a large percentage of people comes from fear. Or a lack of feeling in control. Now for me when I was on gear and when I was big, because I felt capable because I was strong, I was big and I had the presence to be able to command the room. I didn't get aggression because I didn't find myself in situations where I was in the fear for, or where I felt I was out of control. I always felt I could control the environment I was in, which meant there was no fear so there was no reason to get aggressive. We're all going to lose our tempers at some point, it's part of nature. And sometimes it's quite healthy to do so. And I mean, I've had situations where I've had people taking advantage of taking the piss and I've tried to stay calm and become and continue to take the piss despite discussing the problems and explaining my position with it all and everything out. And it's only taken five minutes of me losing my temper. So then to completely stop the negative behaviour, I've not had to do anything physical, I've just had to verbally lose my call with them. And then the brand knew it was until I got to that point, they thought it was just words, there was never going to be anything to back it up. So it's difficult to judge when display a temper is necessary because it reinforced the intention that you've expressed you are capable of and when words are just enough. But I'd always start with the words. And I think also we've been big and being strong. I also ultimately add a reservation about deploying that. I could imagine, yeah. Because it's, yeah, a lot of that is done. And I've never looked particularly approachable. I have what most people call resting bitch face. So when I'm not actively engaged, I do look grumpy and miserable as shit. I don't look very approachable. I'm even now I'm 350 bound with a bold head covered in tattoos. So I've spent a lot of my life. I'm not resentful of how I appear, but I've also been conscious of fact that I've had to break the ice to do away with a preconception of people may have of who or what I am because of the way I look. Yeah. And sometimes I mean the legal work and stuff like that has gone a long way into supporting that because of how I have to present myself and how I have to talk in those sort of situations. So yeah, I would never ever say get rid of all aggression because I don't think it's advisable. But I think you just need to learn when to deploy it. And even though it may be aggressive, it still needs to be controlled. When you lose your temper, when you lose aggression, when you're out of control is when the problem starts and that's usually born out of opinion. But honestly, if fear of being scattered to something, it could be a fear of a lack of control or a fear of a lack of being able to control the environment which you're in. Yeah. Hey, listen, we've got two more Uncle Days of Ice questions. And also two, we are live, but for some reason we're not seeing the comments. So we know, we will comments, man. I've got to see any comments. Yeah, me either. I just went to the page itself and I commented to say, hey, guys, we haven't been able to see the comments in this episode. I've been trying to do things a little bit different and proves the recording. My video looks crappy over YouTube right now, the live version. So hey, look at me as well. Yeah, it's not just you, man. So hey, real quick, I'll say this man. I was never the biggest guy even at my biggest. But because I was a very small human being, like 125 pounds when I started lifting. I've never felt big and I've had people tell me, like, I wouldn't want to mess with you. Or like, nobody's going to want to mess with you, man. Even at my biggest, and I'd be like, I don't see it. Why is that? You know what I mean? So I never felt like the biggest guy, but I will say this. As it concealed carrier, I have to be really careful with my attitudes and my temper. You know, honestly, man, the first time that I carried, I was like, oh, shit. Like, I'm not going to flip anybody off on the road. You know what I mean? I'm not going to provoke anything because I don't want this to escalate in any way, because I recognize the damage I could do. It's interesting that they have statistics on concealed carriers. You know, obviously, you know, we have like, it's on an FBI background checks and stuff to be able to do what I do. So like, we are actually considered to be people who don't commit crimes. And now I recognize two, man. Like, this is a situation where like, you know, there's no small fights in the world. And when you're a kid and you start picking fights, you don't expect it to end in the worst case scenario. You know, but at this point I realized, like, man, I don't want anything to go wrong. I want to avoid fights by any way. Oh, I'm sorry. You know, somebody cuts me off and gives me the finger. And then they want to get in a fight at the light. Yeah, my bad, man. You know, you take care. You know what I mean? Whether take that attitude, then end up in a, you know, a pissing match that literally changes my life forever, you know? I, I think you've also, how could I, what's the cost to you for that moment of outlet? What's the cost to you? And that's one thing I always run into back in my head is, if I do this, what's the cost to me? I mean, I'm in the ground. I mean, I went, I went for the cost. Of course. Two more. Jake has one forces says Dave, I bet there's a lot of young people listening that could use some advice from a ladies man like you, but knows how to kick up a girl or a boyfriend. That's what you should do for Uncle Dave's wisdom sometime. I'm interested. I want to hear how you picked up your first boyfriend. I have never been very good in the, obviously, sex attraction game. I've never been very good. Always like confidence in that department to be honest. But what I will say is that if you, it what do you want out of the partner? Are you wanting a relationship or are you wanting a sexual encounter? If you want a sexual encounter, politely, but just request it. It saves a lot of house. It scares me, man. Right. It saves a lot of house. It saves a lot of house. But if you're looking for a relationship, then I think the only way you're going to foster a relationship with some of them, but if you are true to you. I think the biggest problem is, and we all do this, we go out on the pool, wearing our best clothes, in our best behavior, wearing possibly items of jewelry that we can't really afford, or, you know, so much makeup that we don't look like what we really do. And we give this best foot forward appearance to somebody. And yes, it attracts somebody, but they're attracted to a year pretending to be, they're not attracted to you. Yeah. Two months down the line, when you sat there fart and picking your nose and flicking bullies over the room, they're looking across it even like, what the hell have I got with? It's like, what is it like? What is it like? I just had this lie. I'm not saying you should be deliberately on koof, but at the same time, I think you should be true to you, because otherwise you just false advertising. I like that. And you build in a relationship that's going to be based on a lie, and with the best lie in the world, trying to maintain that long term, it's not happening. Where if you're honest or upfront, and you're truthful with your perspective partner, then they know what they're buying, they've got a proper inspection of the car they're getting, and they're getting, they say, well, yeah, it's worth the money and the mileage or it's not. And so I do think that when you're looking for a relationship, openness and honesty is key. And you shouldn't be ashamed of your past because it is your past, and if a person can't accept your past, then they can't accept you, and they're not the person for you, despite how attractive they may be, or how happy they may be you, or how much they make you smile, or how much they give you a bonus, it doesn't really matter if they can't accept you for you. If you have to pretend to be somebody you're not, then that isn't a relationship. Yeah. Now I think that's all great advice, man. All right, well, more, I can't believe it. We finally got some questions for Uncle Dave's wisdom today. All right, here's another one for Dave from Crohn's Lifter. I turned 30 this year and I love bodybuilding more than ever, but I also love my life. And I'm struggling to balance work with passions and everything I want to get out of the next 30 years or so. Oh, I cut it off. It says read more. How does he suggest creating the right balance? And he might have said more after that. But I think he probably said, I love the show, especially Scott Dave's socks, but I listen to him anyway. Yep, those are his words. I read it. Yep. Difficult. And the reason it's difficult is that if you want to succeed at something, as intruly succeed at something, there's a strong chance it's going to take 75% of your effort. So it doesn't leave a lot for everything else. So if you've got multiple avenues, you want to pursue those two ways of looking at this. One is periodic period, period, period, period, period, period, period. Yeah, you go. The effort on the pursuit. So for arguments say, I'm 30 years old. I'm into bodybuilding for the next five years. I'm going to really focus on that. Yeah. I'm not going to completely negative get negative everything else because you still need to work in a career in everything else. But I'm really going to put a lot of my spare time into bodybuilding. But that means you're not going to have time for other factors. And then you go at 3435 bodybuilding stops and I'm going to focus on something down or I'm going to focus on my family. I'm going to focus on my career. All the other things to accept that you are not going to be 100% of everything because it's just not possible. So you create a balance of what level of effort you're willing to give to the particular pursuit. So it might be Monday to Friday lunchtime, I am a bodybuilder. I live brief bodybuilding. But then Friday afternoon and the weekend, I'm dedicated to my family. Or I'm dedicated to long-bodied nor I'm dedicated to macram or whatever it is you're other thing is. Or it could be another switch where Monday to Thursday it's work. 100% folks and work and then Friday Saturday Sunday is bodybuilding. So you might be have to do some sort of structuring and not say exactly the light that but some sort of structuring where you devote time to one act and time to know it might be that you know what? I'm going to get up at five, I'm going to train before work and I'm not even going to turn my phone on or look at it to last rough any strain. So my training in the morning is completely bodybuilding focused. Diet's easy to fit in around things that actually isn't that hard, we just make it hard. And then I'm going to focus on my work to accept time and then after that time I'm going to focus on family time. And I think you sometimes have to be that structured you have to be you have to be that divisionalised to get it to work to some degree. I struggle, I've always struggle, everything tends to merge. I mean here I am away, it's supposed to be family time on holiday and this isn't a digger doing the podcast but obviously I still work right, Jackie, so do. I still got you very worked to do. And I try to create a balance where Monday to Wednesday I work to the back 12, one o'clock. Then I take two, three, four hours off and then I'll do an hour and hour and half in the evening to catch up. And then the rest of the week I'll just try and fit it in on the phone as I can in and around whatever we do it. And Charles really, really tolerant of it because there's a point for me that I get pissed off with it and it's like, well I'm already, I just want to break. Yeah. But I've never quite got the balance right but when I was into bodybuilding it was bodybuilding and as a result everything else did suffer. So when I start with the bodybuilding I focus more on family life and I focus more on work but that meant the bodybuilding stopped. But that's me, I am a bit all or nothing in what I do. Yeah, for better or worse. Yeah, I sort of have to, it's just how I work. So if I struggle with the current situation which is working till lunchtime because I'm doing the work. I'm doing the work and I'm thinking, I can't be asked with this because I've been lunch so I've got to go to the lunchtime. Where if I know I'm working all day I'm into it, I'm doing it, I'm focused on one with it. But when it's broken, not like that, I struggle with it. I even sort of need complete time off or full-board on work. I'm quite happy to work seven days a week, doesn't bother me in the slightest. I'm gradually crack away of that. But if you tell me that you're having two afternoons off, then I'll struggle because I've got this mix now. I'm a brain to the like it. Well listen, I'll let it something here Dave, is that I accept for competing. When you're competing especially toward the end, things do get really difficult. And I would say that I've actually used a, I used a, not a quote, but something John Meadows had said, I asked him about this once and he said, you know, I tell my wife that last 48 weeks, you know, it is going to have to be more bodybuilding. I have to make that the priority because that's the point where things are hard. You're not going to have as much energy. But then after that, and so they have an understanding, you know, if you go into that knowing, his wife knows that this is what he's going to have to do. But then after that, he doubles down on giving attention to the family. You know, that's what he said he did. And they had an agreement going into that. So outside of that last 48 weeks of a contest prep, I don't understand why it is so much work to be a bodybuilder because you can make all the progress that you need in four days of training per week. Like if you really want to pare it down, even three days of training, if that's dial of training works for you, the food, you have to eat anyway. If you love bodybuilding, then it's not necessarily going to be convenient, but you can, you can make it work. You can get everything else. You know, everything else in your life. So I don't believe that it has to be this or bodybuilding. I've heard people say like, oh, no, man, I need to spend more time. And yeah, I agree, man, you can't neglect your family. You can't neglect your job. But you definitely should have to begin with, is my opinion. I think sometimes the problem isn't so much what you can do, it's the perception of the people around you. So like when I was pushing hard, I had no issue with sticking to the diet. I had no issue with eating the food and carrying the food with me, but shyly at it. Well, then that's a relationship thing. And yeah, she didn't like, she didn't like the fact that we couldn't sit down and have a normal meal together in her head. And it's like, what difference is it making, I mean, chicken or rice? Yeah. And if you're eating a burger and chips, what's the difference? She wanted me to share in her activities. And that's where the problems were. It wasn't that I couldn't eat the food. It was that the partner's relationship was struggling with my adherence to that program. So sometimes it's not difficult in a sense of you being able to do it. It's difficult in a sense of it working within your relationship. I think that's something as a coach. This is something I tried to really manage. I didn't pay as much attention to it, but in the past. But now, I want somebody to have the experience where they're integrating bodybuilding into their lives. I think it's important that they have talks with their significant other, so that everybody is on the same page. And I think that, you know what, there's no reason that for most of the year that you, you know, you should be able to have an off-plan meal. You know, let's say that you guys like to always go out on Sundays and do a certain thing. Well, like, let's make that work. And we can figure out your food to accommodate that. Maybe that might mean that you're not eating quite as many carbs on, you know, you're not training days to offset some additional food that you're getting on that day. I think that there is a way to make that work. You know, at the end of the day, I feel like people sometimes, like, to me sometimes it's a cop out, honestly. Because then I get angry with you. Yeah, without you. Then, you know, what ends up happening is like, well, I got to, you know, I want to dedicate the center of the family. You are important too. You're important. And if you're, if you, you know, taking care of yourself is important. And I'm not saying, like, oh, body, buildings and selfish thing, and you need to be selfish. No, you need to think of everybody else. But you need to make it so that you are responsible for all your stuff. They're not responsible for cleaning out your diff is in the sink. They're not responsible for making your foods. They're not responsible for keeping you on time. And if you happen to go a couple hours over on a meal because you're out with family, you need to be responsible for, like, sucking it up and dealing with that. Don't make any of body buildings there. I suppose we'll be with them. If I was 10 minutes late for me, I was on ratty, you're on the asshole. Yeah, you know, nobody wants to be around that, man. So it's, I know. And it is, I was so a program to eat that, that if anything, not me off that schedule, I struggled. I'm not saying I wasn't like that to it times, man. Like, this is me reflecting in what I had learned. It's easy. When we saw why we are now, because we're not in the, in any moment. But yeah, I mean, I do have clients that do it though, you know, and I was able to achieve my first couple of contest preps. I was a bear to be around. I'm sure that, but I think it's important that we learn to make it, you know, if, if at the least, we're not taking away from the people that love us. And if we can do that, that means like you doing that is what loving body building is all about and keeping it in your life. I used to think years ago Dave's that, like, oh, man, and this is back when Gold's Venice was something. Like, oh, dude, to be a pro in like just hanging out in Gold's all day and training, taking a nap, going to the firehouse, he can clean food, staying on track with my meal, by all of that. That's like hardcore, body building, no dude. Hardcore body building is competing at master's nationals, having a family with three or four kids, you know what I mean? You're having a whole lot of job managing all that stuff, still going to the family picnics, like my client Nick Focolo did this past year. He nailed it, man. And guess what, his family was utterly thrilled for him when he got his pro card. Like, they were excited versus the opposite being like, yeah, you won your show, but you're also two steps away from a divorce, you know? I've got a client, he don't compete. He's probably spent less than two weeks in his own home in the last year. Okay. He's a bodyguard. Oh, and he runs a team and he is constantly on the move, constantly in different countries. And it is literally lottery where are you this week? What have we got, what food can we work with? Can we trade? Okay. And he's still managed to make very solid progress. Yeah. I mean, he's still sitting at 280 pound, still runs regularly. You know, he's not shredded, but under the circumstances, the fact that he makes any progress for it all is outstanding. And it can be done, there's definitely it can be done, but there will, I think sometimes as well, and I will be able to get with myself where you fall into the, it has to be extreme, it has to be this. You know, I have to do this, I never. And there is an element of balance can be achieved. It all depends on what level you're looking to achieve, and where your genetics put you in your ability to achieve that. True. Good genetics make it a lot, bloody easy. Yeah. Well, listen, Dave, I appreciate you taking the time on your vacation again, to hang with us and let's just leave it for us and for France. And we'll make sure everything's fixed next time, guys, so that you'll be able to hang with us in the live stream. On that note, I'm working on getting our video podcast available at Spotify, because as of right now, Spotify is just audio. But I'm going to start boosting up our engagement at Spotify, so definitely comment over there, follow us on Spotify. We need a second outlet, you know, I'm sure you guys saw that in a bog body building is down right now. Whew, shout out to Paul, man, and I wish him the best with it. It's the scary thing that we're in this position we are. We are literally trying to help, you know, and we don't want to add negativity or, you know, add anything that could hurt people with what we do. I wish that YouTube could understand that, you know, but definitely make sure that you follow the back up channel, follow the YouTube live channel, you know, that that's where we air the live podcast as we record them. That will be our fallback. Spotify will be our fallback. We have our rumble, we'll be posting over there. And of course, the show's always out on audio podcasts. Enjoying the think big Facebook group. Facebook is an awesome, they seem to be editing and deleting some of our posts. It's another meta app, but hey, you know, it's something we have. We've got over 2,000 people in the community there. We'd love to have you guys there, especially if things go dark, you won't lose contact with us, Dave, right? Yep, true. Go to evenbottiluss.com, get your lab work done by Dave. Go to a strong sports nutrition, get good health. Good health supplements, great health stacks, especially if you're on cycle. Supplement source.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. Like, close out blowout deals, real good deals. Turnutrition.com, use our code, think over there for all your basic body building supplements. Like, create in and interwork out and protein powder. Every protein powder you can think of tons of great flavors. Use our code, think. Patreon guys, we'll knock out our Patreon questions next. So definitely fill us up with questions over at Patreon guys. And Dave, are you taking new clients while you're in vacation or you're holding off to get them out? Yeah, okay. Okay. Hit them up over on social media. We'll have that linked below guys and you hit me up with Natalie Dyson.com. And for another episode of the podcast, we will see you soon. Thanks, everybody. And thank you, Dave. Bye, Jeff.

The biggest thing for me that made it so amazing was the reaction of the kids. So the kids are in the audience, they got your signs made up. This is very in mind, they've never met you before, they've just saw an image of giant and they've made your banner. So look around the arena and see that and hear them shout your nails. Phenomenal. That's surreal. Welcome everybody to Esges bodybuilding episode two from day one. Of the 2024 Arnold Expo, Ron Parlo does the Han Shah and the producers coming now on board. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment and ring the bell. Ring the bell. Today we got special guests all the way from the other side of the booth. He's not even, he's not even Jamie the giant anymore. He's just the giant. The giant. What's going on my friend? I think good. It's been a while, that's not necessarily a bit on the podcast. Yeah, but I guess we thought fam got to you. We got to act at your, your, your, your, your publicist. Yeah. What does on the list? Yeah, with my agent and then the agent. Yeah, the broadcast company. And they said, don't call us. We'll call you. Remember, I am mutant.com, go to I am mutant.com, get your ISO search, get your all in, and everyone should get on the gear. Let's end. I got to announce it's not, I'm not going to make a big deal out of it because I don't know what I'm talking about, but we were launching a new product today at the Arnold. Oh, we're launching the mine. Yes. Yes. That's how I'm saying it. Some people might say mine freak. I'm saying mine. This is like, Marcia. Marcia. Marcia. So how would there be a freak? Mine. Yeah, I don't know. You'd think they'd leave the other are. They're going to be the other. If you wanted it to be, the mine. Yeah, and it's our, our new tropic formula. Yeah. We work out new tropic formula. So I'm very excited about that. So yeah, that's the news here at the Arnold X. But we're launching the mine. And, uh, scutty be busy editing this one. Oh, yeah. And, uh, don't even know what it's called. Yeah. Yeah. It's called. It's a new product. And we got Jamie the giant. So let's get to that. Jamie the giant. Whoa. Just on that note about the product name as well. Yes. I'm going to the podcast a few times before. I have a bit of a potty mouth like you, Rob. Yes. As the many of the bridge do. However, because I know I'm on a family orientate show. Yes. After rain night. So you're ready to do it. You may not find me, uh, using any f-bombs today. Oh, yeah. That's okay. I appreciate that. I totally good with that. Less sending. He, that's what happens. The public just comes in and give you the Tom Cruise speech. They give you the, they give you the the Ryan Reynolds. Everyone's got to love you. Break it down for you. Hey. Wait, it's funny when we're, uh, auditioning and going through the process before filming. I obviously do my stories. My morning walks. And one of the editors like messengers, I Jamie. Right. I'm just going to give you a bit of a word of advice. And take it. How you will book imagine your audience. When you're doing your videos. You're speaking to an eight year old child. Oh. My ass, you're a bit, is it my child? Yeah, yeah. My kid needs to learn the tough words. It's a hard life out there. Okay. Of course, for those of you that don't watch the British broadcasting company, where company or corporation, where they call it. The BBC, the, like, I would say the biggest broadcast company in the UK. It's British broadcasting company or corporate. I can't remember the how the word goes. I would go on the spot. British broadcasting. It's how we got to say it. Yeah, the top dogs in England. And so Jamie's on the gladiator show. And it's going really well. Yeah, it's got amazing. I mean, we filmed the show in June. So it started filming, sorry, Aaron on the BBC on the 30th of January. It's got to run for 11 weeks. So I think there's that four weeks left. Yeah. And the ratings are smashing at the minute. So nice. Yeah, it's so good. I, uh, it's been a big year for you. So you got to, got to gake. Yep. And you couldn't really tell us anything about it. And then you went and filmed the whole season. Yeah. Over the course of two months in the summer. Yep. And you had to downsize for that. And you had to work on your athletics. Yes. And you had to get your feet back. Yeah, that's all that stuff. As an Asian man as well. Yeah. You quit. You quit. You really realize you're not as young as you used to be. And things are, things are come back quite as quick. Yeah. I mean, I did one thing. You know, at the same time, I'm trying to double up on being more involved. I'm involved as a father. So yes, you know, do more things with the kids because we know we all know bodybuilding takes you away in your own zone for a lot of that time. Oh yeah. So things like football and, you know, just spending more time with the kids with commonplace. I remember one day when I was trying to get fit and doing all these functional things for training for it to be a glad year. I said, I raised my son to the halfway line on the football pitch. Right. I was like, we're as neck and neck. We're at 9.14. So that you show that slow iron. You turn it halfway line. I'm like, growing just goes, oh, oh my god. Maybe I should be doing this crap. That's limits. Yeah. I was going to ask how long it took you to get your first athletic re-entry. Because every guy that leaves bodybuilding and goes like, Jiu-Jitsu or, hey, like four months into ride might be a mex that's on my hamstring. Yeah. I had to learn it quick. I was like, oh, there we go. Yeah. That's going to happen. I'm going to learn how long it would take you to get hurt bouncing around and changing direction and all that. Listen to the music. Listen to month. Yeah. But hey, you get better for it. Yeah. So so you did all that and you couldn't talk about it. Because you don't want to ruin the season. Like, can't say anything, right? It was difficult. Yeah. Yeah. The massive thing that's happening in my life. I can't say anything about it. And then, you know, as a sponsor, that's as well. I'm no longer a bodybuilder. So I imagine Jim's not pulling his hair out saying, and we're paying Jamie or his money and. And he's not doing it. And he can't even talk about it, right? I don't know what I mean. So yeah, that's, that's, and we were all kind of like excited and waiting. Like, when's this show going to come out? Yeah. I can't wait to see Jamie in this set of this outfit. They got him in a three quarter lead. It's a rock in a single. Yeah. You know what they should have done? They should have let your character wear an old NPC. Yeah. Listen to it all the old NPC flex wheeler one. They should just let the one gladiator wear that. Or the old crazy wear, you know what I mean? The thing is, I was one of the gladiators. It was looking off to wear more clothes and his new fan grip. Right. Yes. They're all feeling naked. You felt like, oh, yeah. No problem when things sucks and shoes. And yeah, exactly. Yeah, the old physique shorts. There was good. Yes. Plenty of coverage. You're almost too much. So we got to ask a few questions, obviously. So what was, what was it like when you first showed up and you met all the other gladiators? Were there was everyone like sizing each other up and you realized like, I assume they went for like a real. They wanted a whole bunch of different people, right? Yeah. So back in the day when gladiator's on the BBC and I noticed in American or the countries, they predominantly back then in like the early 90s. Nobody built it. Yeah, that was crazy. Yeah. It's all about to look. Yeah. But with the advancements of most like sports now and got trust for, we got Olympic sprinters. As Bob Slee, team, there's such an array of athletes within the gladiator squad. There was a bit of sizing up, I guess, but there's more and appreciation of someone's ability. Yeah. We got a guy called Harry Ackens, G.B. Sprinter, his name's Nitro in the show. And I put a comment on his Instagram the other day because I watched him sprinting. He did a real sprinting. And I said, I could watch you run all day. My miss is ghost. That's a bit of a weird comment. He's just a spectacle. Yeah. I know exactly. It's like watching a gazelle. Yeah. You're just like, I couldn't ever move like that. Like, you know what I mean? Head is perfectly level and just flying down the track. Yeah. Workable. Yeah. Workable. Yeah. Yeah. What did they think of you? I mean, you're the biggest guy. You're the tallest, you're the biggest. We're in the fly. Now, one of the oldest as well. So, kind of take on that father role. Right. I was, I think as big guys we got the respect to people anyway. Right. But I've got the age factor as well. So it's like now now children listening. I'm going to tell you a few stories. I love it. Great. So it's good. Back when TV was black and white. Yeah. But when we had four channels. Yeah. Channel five got added. What were some of the things they said? You said you respected that. You like watching that sprint or move and you're like, Wow. You know, what were some of the things like after you started doing your stuff for people like man, you're just like, you're so hard to move or like, where were the comments they were again? I mean, yeah. I think it was quite clear. We was all there for certain. Like role and reason. Right. And my reason was to be the big guy. And as a game called the Jew, you have a big stick. Yes. And you got a knock to give a go. Yeah. That's the best one. That's the one that used to be the number one feeder. I'm an American Guardian. What was it real adjusting one? Yeah. So there was a UK guy named Chateau back in the day. He was known as the King of the Jew. So that was like, I want that time. Right. And no spoilers. But as it's airing in the UK now, I think I'm four and a. And I've got three more bounce left. Right. Because he does he goes seven and a half. So we see. We see. Okay. But yeah. That was quite clear. And then it kind of, I think to me, it took a bit of pressure off me because I'm thinking, why don't I go to climb a wall? I got a swing on these rings. I got to be able to sprint and all this and obviously very short period of time to transition from being a bodybuilder and working in one plane, up and down forward and backwards. Yeah. So that took a bit of pressure off because I had the support of the team who were all there for an individual specific reason. We've all got a strength. Yeah. So I've got to try and be the all-rounder. Around the big guy. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. They're not really asking anybody to do that. No. Right. Yeah. But moving forward, you know, season two has not been commissioned yet, but I'm very, very positive at will be. I want to do a few more events for next season. So I'm already working on my upper body strength and the pull ups and the ability to even hang from one on. Right. It's just, it sounds really simple, but it's not for as kind of guys. Yeah. Yeah. And then swing with one on. Yeah. It's like, you know, people don't understand the physics, like, you know, 170 pounds is different than 270 pounds. But then also when you're swinging, there's that G4 on your grip and all that stuff and you become 500 pounds. Yeah. I mean, how many body builders have been to, I don't know, whatever they do in the US or Canada, but they've got the show, the Ninja Warrior and the UK. Yeah. Yeah. And then in the UK, they've also got the center set up to replicate the Ninja Warrior, try yourself. I know many of the bodybuilders are for great idea for YouTube video and I come back with Tom Biser. Right. Absolutely. That's the number one thing that happens with people do those hangs. Yeah. But yeah. What about the contestants that you're going up against? Do, is there any, like, time spent with them or are they just, like, cold? You have no idea of this? They're just knocked this guy up a platform. So we actually filmed it in an ice hockey arena. Yes. So you imagine a tunnel that surrounds the inner ring as it were. Yeah. So you meet your inner tunnel before the match. Ah. You kind of like, given the eye. Yeah. As a show goes on, we see the contenders, multiple times if they get fruit and the next rounds. Yeah. So there's a little, there's a few niceties. Well, they know what's coming. Right. So it's always fun. And I don't think the contenders know before hand, who they're going up against. So the first time they'll find out is when we're in the tunnel. Right. So someone's on jewel and they walk out and giants in the tunnel. God's. Yeah. I got to go against the big guy. Yeah. So that's fun. Who's the smallest glad eater? Um, there's a chap called a Viper. I think he's the shortest. But in terms of shortest, I'm saying 510. Right. Yeah. He's still a big guy. Yeah. Yeah. He's still a glad eater. He's actually a really, really cool guy and a great character. So on the show in the UK back in the day, there was a character called the Wolf. The Wolf was like the bad guy. The heel. Right. He's one of two of our current gladiators at play, like a batting. Right. So the kids love that. Yeah. And they cheer for the regular gel over hand. Yeah. For sure. Yeah. Yeah. And he's not a favorite by the audience. Well, how did this selection go? How did the process go? I see they've been sending you out to like breakfast TV and the talk shows circuit in England and doing all the London TV stuff. How did you get selected? You're just visually very, obviously visually very impressive. Yeah. So that's probably one of the reasons they opted to send you to all this stuff. Yeah. But you've also become one of the more popular gladiators. Yeah. I think that's down to obviously the stature for sure. Got a good set of legs in the Lycra. Help. Yeah. So people love the wheels. Got a bit of fake tan on the show. We look nice and brown the white teeth. Yeah. It goes in. There you go. But I think ultimately. And I do a bodybuilding in the current climate social media and YouTube and things to thank for as well. Is that you have the big good on camera? Yeah. Yeah. Be good at speaking to people and portraying the character. Now, look at me. I'm just being myself. Yeah. Yeah. That's very interesting to do. Are a character. Yeah. So I'm laughing at Jo, Cosmyl. I win and gracious with it at the same time. So I guess it's easy to be liked. Right. Yeah. So how do the heels? How do they heal it up? Do they like stomp on guys after they beat them? And act on sportsmen like like how do they heal it up? They give it a crowd the finger. How does that work? That's a bit of odd you, Bob. I think it was a bit of odd you bit of pushing and whatever else. I know we just said a word I don't know what it was but I think it was English slang. I've got good about it. So odd you biology. Yeah. It's a bit of pushing and shipping. A bit of odd you biology. I'm going to use that moving forward. There you go. Okay. Um. And then they had the foam on the microphone. It's like the wrestling microphone. Yeah. And I remember Viper once he like bit the foam off the microphone. Spat it out. So we're a little bit of a taste. I saw one of them on Instagram. They showed a clip. And they had the one. Remember back that they run where they had to get the ball into like a cylinder. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They put ball into the dunk. But one of the gladiars picked the guy up and then threw them back in their ball. Yes. Was that one of those guys? Because that was funny. Well, that was Apollo. He's a really nice guy to be fair. And he's an ex NFL player. So you can imagine a rugby based tackling game. It's savage. Absolutely savage. Yeah. He literally picked the guy up and then threw them back where the balls go. Yeah. Six, about six. About 270 pounds. Actually going against someone who's actually five, six. Two hundred pounds. It's dangerous. Yeah. Yeah. But he actually did it gingerly. You could tell how easy it was to place this guy in the ball bin. Oh man. But it was funny. It is funny. It was an interview after it was like, yeah, just taking out the trash. Yeah. That's very sad. It was great. Good good stuff. So what about the, is there any coaching with your microphone time? Or did they disguise it like wrestling style? Or they're like, let's see what this guy's got? Yeah. Pretty much. I mean, they obviously all did their research and chose us for reasons. And I guess one of the reasons where that we were good. That stuff. Right. I mean, we didn't need much coaches. But it's one of those things where it's got a crum across natural on the TV. Because anything that comes across natural is just better isn't it? Yeah. So a lot of things were just off the cuff. And the good thing is the presenter that presents a show, him and his son, Bradley Walsh, is the main guy is his son Barney. Because obviously there's a lack of number two. They both work great together. Hi, cheers. Jim. Hey, man. So Bradley Walsh has been in TV in the UK for years. It must be 30, 40 years. I don't want to be nasty to him. Yeah. He's got all the guys that are very experienced guys. So he can just like create a conversation and lead you into certain things. So if it wasn't for him, I guess it might have been a bit clunky. Right. Right. He's actually running it. Yeah. Yeah. You don't even know that he's guiding the whole. You carry character to get there. That's it. Yeah. I remember hearing the rock story about the first time. They gave him the microphone. You know, he was like, kind of a lower level guy and he's like giving the mic to me. Give me the mic to my dance. Yeah. And I was like a big moment where they were like, oh. Okay. He can do this. He just lit it up. He can go out and just take over. So yeah. I'm excited to see the show man. I haven't seen obviously we don't get to show. But I want to find out how I can watch the show. Like, you know, I'm sure it'll pop up somewhere where we can stream it. Yeah. Like, once the season's done, it might wind up on. Yeah. They, they, I don't know, right? Maybe. Um, I don't know whether this is like, League or not. So I'm saying it from a position where I think it's legal. Right. Wait, if there's going to be a lot of editing involved. I'm on a bus stop. So what you do is you film the show and then you post it to you. I was going to say what some people do in other countries is they got a VPN app. Oh, yeah. So the class is being in Britain. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Something might be wrong because then you wouldn't pair TV license and yeah, the BBC, we don't pay you TV license. Yeah. Well, that said use Lord VPN code. Yeah. Yeah. So anyway, what I was saying is I'll leave it up to you to find out how you do this. Right. Yeah. Some of the BBC, I'm going to say, as there's a way to get pretty much anything done. Yeah. Understood. Understood. What would be like, did you have a chance to do this? Did you have any bad episodes like, did you get hurt on the show at all and have to kind of get through it? Or anything like that at all once too? I was pretty good. They went smooth. Yeah. Then what I would class is about episode is if I wasn't in it as much as I would have liked to be. Because there's, there's eight guys, eight girls. There's only five events each show. So they got to share it out. Right. So there's some weeks where I'm in one thing and I'm like, man. That's what I want. But now with that, let me ask you that I watched a documentary recently about the American lady. Yeah. And it was a great documentary. You guys haven't seen it. It's on. I think Netflix. I'm going to watch it for sure. It was so good. And it's got, it got like cool animations and stuff. But it really took me back to when the show came out. They worked those guys hard. Oh yeah. And then they went on tour. Yeah. So they were like night after night after night. How was this spread out? So we basically filmed it over 11 days. So we did a show a day. And five weeks. Three, four, two, seven is one final. I think my maths is right. And so on day six we had a break. Right. So we did 10 days filming in 11 days. Okay. And the semi final. We filmed it one day. We just had like an afternoon and an evening thing. But generally speaking, we just did one a day. So it's quite cool. Right. There's long days. You know, I've won event in the morning. And then one event in the afternoon is I got to follow up then. So how does that work with like catering and stuff? Because he like I've never been on a TV show. So like so. Like, like, do you have a trailer first of all? Is there a star on the door that says giant? Oh no, no, no. I was thinking what's a trailer like it. I mean, that. Yeah. Like a trailer where you can take a hang out in. And then I was like bringing you like food. And like the foods you guys want. How does that all? So so we have a room. They call it the green room. Yeah. Yeah. We have the green room where we hang out. And they got a lot of snacks. Oh. From a body building background. When you walk in the green room and you see just sweets and crisps. Yeah. Potato chips. What I'd be on a call and that's a kind of level of nutrition. You're getting so. It's down to my stomach. You're getting government nutrition. Yeah. Remember, this is a government. Oh, and it. Yeah. So saying that. I think they fed us to like twice a day. You'd get dinner and an evening meal. Yeah. And then you response with your own breakfast. And that came in within the arena. It was very good. Right. And that was like chicken salmon and rice. Potatoes. Good stuff. But obviously as a form of body building. Six, seven meals a day. That wasn't enough. So I take chicken bagels to the arena. And I'd be yummy. And then two, three times a day as well. Right. Okay. Yeah. Did the other gladier think you eat a lot? My breakfast was a salad bowl full of oats. Right. I'm on butter. The banana. Bit of everything. There's a what that hell is that? Now, were you guys all like sequestered in a hotel? Or were you going home every night? Like, was it all seen? Yeah, to keep you. Yeah, they kept us all in chef food. But they did keep the guys in a set of things. And then the women were over the other side of chef food. In another area. I think they thought he did that based on the, the muscle mayhem. American gladiators. Yeah, they knew they keep the men in women. They were in that last set. They weren't there less than the 90s. Well, that was, that was fun because that's when you get to know each other better. Right. Going out for food with the guys at night time after the show speaking about things. Going to train with them. Yeah. The camaraderies important because then that comes across on camera as well. Right. Yeah. What about the lead up? Like, when did they call you? First of all, how was the trial? Did you send video? Or did you have to like go jump around and live? I, how did it work? Yeah, yeah. So I basically went to an athletic arena in England and London. And I think on the day there was 40 people there. And I think they had, now had that already been whittled down from video or anything. Or was it just like that? Yeah. Yeah. So the first day was an application video. It was like a one minute. This is who I am. This is what I do. I want to be like it. I want to see your video. I was just looking there. I need your video. I'll have it somewhere. Yeah. But sure. Can you send it to us? Yeah. Definitely. I don't see one. Yeah. You shot it. Yeah. Stay tuned at the end guys. Yeah. So that was stage one. Stage. With that was an application form. So this is quite funny as well. I feel like an application form. Personal details history. Oh my god. You're bringing a friend over. It's a lovely dog. Oh my goodness. Hello. Who's this? Beautiful. Beautiful dog. Amazing. How many of us show? Yeah. Yeah. I need a massage. Sorry. I need to move the camera there for that. It doesn't dark. It doesn't dark. It doesn't dark. It doesn't dark. I don't know if he still does it and you wouldn't have seen it on camera. That was a hundred laboradas. Massot. Massuss. Okay. Yeah. So we needed to come back after the podcast and give us on a massage. Yeah. Exactly. Sure. So yeah. I'll keep this short because it could be a long story. But I feel that an application form. Followed by personal details. Everything as well. One of the questions was. Have you got any holidays? Put the shit. So I was like, yes. May whatever. For a week. Croatia with the family. That was the week of filming. Or one of the three weeks of filming. So that's that waiting. There's two months gone by. Three months gone by as I. I've got over to my back now. So some divine intervention. I had an email address of one of the production cast. Email them. James. I've sent his application for me. And like, I think I'm perfect. I think like that. Yeah. Of course. What's happening? Give me some feedback. And because I bought down a gohull, they'd readmarked it. Ben straight. Oh. So I didn't have been. So that got me out of the bin. Oh my god. Thank god. And then the last part was a physical audition. So that you went to a physical audition. I think people have got down to a physical tryouts. I don't know the exact number book. You. They're in the hundreds. And you go on individual days. I went and there's 40 people. He gets split in two groups. There's rope climbing, sled push in. Broad jump, pull ups, burpees, all functional stuff. So I'm like still at this point 295 pounds. But they knew that obviously I'm not going to be able to hold my body because it's a dead hang as well. Some people are dead hang in the two minutes. And getting off because nobody else is there. And they're like bought. Right. There's done. And after 30 seconds, I'm shaking. So I think the way I understand it is. There was a scoring system. And you had to get so many seconds, so many pull ups. So much distance. And you went in a, you got one or two or three points. Based on how good you did. They tell it all those up. And then they got a big board. So it was like the best and the best. Yeah. And then they, they marked you physically against like how good you were on camera because there's a bit of a camera thing. Right. What you look like. And I'm sure they had in the head. What kind of characters they want and people to. For trust. Yeah. Is it, is it in that process and something that you know, you you're going to some real hot tub. Yeah. For sure. What do you think? Like was there, was there a moment where you think you definitely got it? Like, like, do you remember doing something in your, and you looked at them? And you're like, oh, it doesn't matter now. I mean, I don't know. I mean, there was points where I thought I've got to be. But every conversation you have with these guys because they are right. Same if I look at your version. Yeah. Right, following Rawr and the highest, the lowest. Yeah. That's good. you saw an image of giant and they made your banner. Yeah. So look around the arena and see that and hear them shout you know, it's phenomenal. That's cool. So real. Yeah, because I guess episode one they would have had no usable footage for you. No. Nothing. They can't really promote you other than just an image of you standing like that. Yeah. And it that goes to show as well the power of a physique. Oh yeah. To children. That's why super heroes and action man. That's why they all do they all and in society. And that's reaching such a more mainstream group than bodybuilding, right? Yeah. Like I remember like you mentioned Lehanie earlier today. And I remember like Lehanie inspired me. But Lehanie didn't inspire most of the kids like they might do your high. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I remember when I went to Gold's Venice for the first time in 96. Yeah. And I saw Billy the blonde bomber Smith. Yeah. And he was a gladiator. And I just remember seeing Billy Smith and Jim because he used to train with Jim Quinn. And they were in there just going animal like his old days. And I remember this famous photo shoot of Billy Smith Lake Pressing with Jim Quinn sitting on the Lake Press. Okay. And I remember just thinking like, oh that's a real life gladiator. Yeah. Oh that guy's one of the American live years. He's a reason. He's a machine. And I was already like 20 years old. And I was super impressed. Like something like Smith. Yeah. You know, so imagine a little eight year old or ten year old this, you know. Pretty much. We forget those days. Absolutely. We get old enough that we forget how excited we were to like give me. Yeah. Man. We got a TV. Yeah. Talk about like passing it on. Yeah. Yeah. We got to go back to the kids to gain to fitness. Yeah. You know, just to eat properly. Got the meals in. It's got to be a good thing. What about? So episode one airs. What would day with that event? January said. Yeah. That was a third to you. So it would be Saturday night. Okay. So Saturday night. Episode one airs. And what do you do on episode one? What's your first thing that you see of you? I think the first thing that sort of me was true. It was true. Actually. Not the park trailer. The trailer. But it comes under the start of the show. Like the head of the show. It's a sequence of every single guy there. Bro. And I am the first to appear on the screen. So when everyone sees. Um. Glad it is on the Saturday night. You're the first guy. Yeah. Yeah. So that was quite cool. Absolutely. And then I think the first event was true. So yeah. I think the guy lasted. One point three seconds. To be precise. So then what happens? Like how many people viewed it did they tell you? Like BBC would know they got millions of viewers. Yeah. So I think the expectation or the hope is that we would. Get anywhere around 4 million. Because. Wow. Just to give you some context. The show. I think Peter and average audience of 17 million back in the day. Yeah. But that's when the UK 4 channels. Right. Right. When it went off air. I think it was getting around 9 million. Right. Well now we've got thousands of options. Yeah. Even if it's not TV, we've got YouTube. So the expectation was 4 million. Anything above there. Happy days. First week got 8 million. Oh wow. Nice. That's when there's like, okay. This is a hit. That's awesome. And then it. Yeah. Where you relieved when you heard that. Where you worried at all. Yeah. I don't know whether it's worried. It's just like. You just don't know TV is going to work these days. Yeah. You don't know. You just don't know. It's 10 TV. I don't know. Yeah. But then they say, well, I can't get too excited. Yeah. Because we got a retain the audience. Right. And the retention. I think we hit 8 million again. And I'm not sure that average viewing figures now. Because you've got the live viewings and then the playback. But we're still hitting. And I'm sure around like 6.7 million. So it's like blown the everyone's kind of expertise. Expectations about you. Yep. Thanks, sister. I had you. My brain's like, just like a... I need to spit that out. So okay, you go to the grocery store five days after it airs. Yeah. Great question. Like, what does that start? What happens? What's the first thing that happens? It's not body building. Like, you know what I mean? Yeah. It's not a body building thing. It's like your, the gladiator I just saw. Yeah. And that's when you realize how big it is. Because I've said before. I was widely known as a body builder. I went to my local store and I might get one person say, I'll go to meet a week or a month. We're now a bit like someone saw me walking off the show. And you can see them talking at checkouts. And then this is quite a 41 so it didn't test goes my local super store. Getting my groceries. And I saw this woman. She must be mid four. It's clocked me from the checkouts. She's with us on the sun's 15 years old. So she's coming running over. Can I have a photo? Yeah, yeah. Cool. Do you want you to sit together? No, don't worry about him. That's amazing. He's in the video games. Yeah, he's not mine. He doesn't want you to be. Yeah, I don't care. Just leave it. That's amazing. What's on? Yeah. And I've been asked for a lot of school visits. Kids love you. We come in a parent school. I don't know whether it's for the kids or the teachers. I'm a bit about them. The kids love you. Yeah. So what's, how is it now? Like, is it, is it every time you go out? What if you go for dinner with the misses? Well, this is a funny story as well. So if I go out on my own, or I just put my son, women don't mind coming over. And men as well, you know. Very popular of the males. If it's not from my rainbow community. Right. It's from from dad's I say, no, can I have a silver for my son? We're just cool. But when I go out with the misses, I get bombarded, run a knot with her. When I go out with her, I don't know what it is. I don't know whether they just show a sign of respect. Like, he's with his misses, we'll leave him alone. Right. She probably doesn't want any of this crap. Yeah. Well, she just got this face that says don't come near me. Don't come near me. Yeah. Don't come near my man. Probably a bit of a mess. Probably a bit of a mess. It's like evolution has taught us to respect the misses. I get bothered for less. So I call him a personal security detail. Right. Right. What does she think of it? She watched the show in the yard. She got to go, ah, you look all right. Leave the room. No, no, no. We watch it's a family. And that's the best thing about it. Like, for the past, I would say six, seven years. We've not really sat down as a family. Right. And I remember when I was a kid, you'd sit down on a sat in nights of family and you'd watch. In the UK it was like gladiators blind date, family fortunes. It'd be a list of shows you'd watch together. Top of the pots. And the pot. Yeah. And then the head of the show would be like, you need to look it up. Because top of the pot was great. It's hits. I think they do an annual every year. Right. In the UK. So not everyone by CDs anymore. They do. So yeah, this is the first time in years. That was a family on a sat in night on a sofa. Ready to watch something together. Right. That's amazing. And that's the same obviously for a lot of households in the UK now. So that's really why it's blown up. Right. You're bringing families together, Jimmy. There you go. And what have thought? Now, here's a question for you. Have people mentioned or brought it up transitioning because of what you're doing with the athleticism? Yep. And hey, you should give a, she give Vince a call or whoever's running WW now. I guess Vince is out. But the, the, the, the ever thought of like what's the pro, pro wrestling ever reach out to you or anyone from the pro wrestling community? I mean, we all know at Connors. Yeah. And at Connors spoke to me way back in like 2012. I remember talking to Ad Connors about you like when you first joined Newton. Yeah. Yeah. So that was on the cards way back when. And I just think that is a hard life. Yeah. And that's even harder at 38. Maybe 10 years ago, but not now. Right. What about, uh, I guess you don't have a Hollywood in England. What do you have? Yeah. Whoa. London. Got the BBC. Got the BBC. I'm just wondering now from here like, you know, what, what, what, is anyone said anything to you like, you know what you're pretty good on a microphone? Like you might be able to, I'm going to do something else with this sort of front of the camera stuff. I think that's what it's going, you know, the, the physicality of gladiator is an other thing's like that. I hope I can do that for number five years. Right. But even in five years time there's not going to be another five years after that. Right. I don't in physics. Yeah. So you got to be looking towards the next things and there's whispers of like panto, which is, you know, panto, like pantomime. It's something that they're doing the UK Christmas, like a theatre show. Right. So, don't have to describe it. It's just something that the family would go and watch. You know, like, in, in, when you're at school or high school, you do school plays. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Just like that by an adult version. Right. For the family. So that's really a form of acting experience. So I think from now filming the show, I would like to get as much acting experience as possible from that kind of stuff and other things. Like theatre. It's a theatre theatre background. Yeah. And then, you know, along this journey, just make connections, network, meet people. You don't know what doors are going to open. So I just want to be physically and verbally ready. I'm verbally. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I've asked like 20 in a row. I know what's going to happen. I've been back so run does this thing where he just, like, gets into the room. Yeah. Yeah. And it's like, that's a real. It's like, no, I'm watching a show right now. I feel like, okay, I've done 20 now. I've got like that row seated the yard. And I was like, oh yeah, that was a really good one. It's all just stuffable to gladiators. It just leads to the next question. Yeah. You think that answered to that question. Well, now I have to ask this question. Yeah. And it just leads leads. Like there's, you know, that it must have been just such an intense. It's, I know it took months for it to happen. Yeah. You're in the bin. Yeah. Right. But for it to all just come together, must seem like, you know, I mean, you know, if someone told you, you're in a half ago, if we said you'd be on, you know, you take ladiators to be like, what are you talking about? Yeah. I remember, in 2022, it was the last year competing. Yeah. And I remember the wife saying, in the time of 36 and in my head, I always had that round number 40. Right. You can't compete up to them. And then that, then I think I'd be doing. And I think it's after the second show. So that would have been like the Arnold Classic or the French show, one of the two. She's like, this is going to be the last year competing. And that's like, what are you talking about? And I don't know why. But every time I say that story, I like a twin-giver motion. So it means a lot because I don't know whether something just made that happen for a reason. I don't know. I get that feeling when I say it. The power of suggestion. Yeah. Open your mind. It did. Because then I thought, you know what? And a conversation I would Jay Cookler in the body power. Sorry, not body power. Yeah, I'm at the Arnold's at year. So breakfast, I think the day before the show. So Jay Cookler, I've read first. We had a bit of a conversation. So that was you Wade. That's like 300 pounds. I was seeing the day before the show. It was like right. Because as I think you need to be 30 pounds heavier on stage. It says, where does that leave you? Or where do you finish your hours? Like, dead. Right. Yeah. And I think that was a realisation that, although I was probably inspirational to a lot of talk. But I was inspirational to a lot of tall body builders for being able to have a balanced, big, physique and do pretty well in the pro lineups. I would say a low tear show. I just know I had so much more that I needed to put in at that point. Right. That even if I committed everything I got up until 40, I might get to Olympia. But I'd be placing it at the back. Right. Yeah. And what would those three years take out of me? What would it cost me? Right. So it did open my mind. I started thinking about these things. I was like, you know what? This might be the last year. And then I competed in October. And then they released the announcement that, hey, we're bringing back gladiators. I was like, whoa. Things happen for a reason, right? Right. You told J that story? No, not even there. You sure? J has to hear that story. He would love that. Yeah, he really works. Yeah. You're the second guest in a row that brought J up like that. Really? And Drea said something about J giving her advice and how it changed her career. Oh, cool. Yeah. The way I see it, too, is that this is such a positive thing. Right. We got an option here. Oh, okay. Oh, thank you. He sounds extra good. But I know some people like the project, Jackson. To me, it sounds normal. I love people say I sound like I'm from Australia. I'm from the UK. Yeah, you know I took Kingdom. You have some Aussie friends growing up. Or something is there a little bit of a way to say. I think you may be the people from Nottingham. Sound like I'm from Australia. All right. Okay. Good. What I was going to say though is that I feel like, where you're at now versus where you would have been. Eventually we all have to stop competing. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. And to be able to go out on your terms and be able to kind of parlay that into something else. Yeah. What we're hearing is like a, this is the success story that I think everybody will look once. This, yeah. You know what I'm saying? There's a ton of guys out there that would, in hindsight, probably rather have this. Yeah. This, you know, as a, how did your competing days end? Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I think it's a good message for bodybuilders who are in the, even 20s. Yeah. Think about what's next. Where are you going to go? Yeah. It's massive because, I mean, I know people that were huge when I was coming up, you know, the UKMF, they see MP days where you got open small and, um, successful pros, they all, those people now, they just don't know where they are. You know what they're doing because they didn't think of what, like, life after bodybuilder. Right. It's super important. And I think that's why people end up coming back into bodybuilding, completely because I, I might have done it. If I didn't have a reason to be okay with losing that identity, right, that part of my identity. Yeah. You've always got to create a new identity. And then when you've been doing the same thing for 20 years, that's hot. Yeah. Yeah. Targeted one thing for 20 years. Yeah. It wasn't until we talked the second time that I asked you when you were going to quit. Yeah. Yeah. The show. Yeah. Yeah. I was back. We had a good little audience here. It's even. It's good. Were they here for you, Jamie? I don't know. Pretty sure. I think they call all five of them. They didn't show up until Jamie can. They're going to show it talking walk away, walk away. Yeah. You were just dropped it with the Americans. Just like that. Yeah. It's easily done. I was stereotyped. Dealed by association. Oh, no. I know. What about, um, what about your training? Like, I saw you sprinting on the bike. I see you doing some footwork. Are you doing that stuff right now? What do you do now when you go to the gym? Do you just add some stuff on to the end or is it all different? It's pretty different. I go in the gym. I've got no real plan other than because I'm busy. And I'm here there and everywhere. I find it hard to hold down a routine at the minute, which is a nightmare for any bodybuilder. Right? Right. It's just something that I've come to terms with because I can get two days notice and they want me Manchester or the all-me-in-london. Like, for a just promotional experience. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. So what I'm doing now is I'm going to up a lower. And then I'll try and do that twice a week. So I'll train four times. And I'll cook everything. Yeah. And as long as I'm getting my cardio and on top of that to keep the, you know, the cardio fitness in there and do what I enjoy. So I love the bike. Yeah. Right. Although the weather's not obviously very good in UK the minute. Yeah. Right now especially. And my miss is La Sereda because she calls me a people pleaser. And I'm always, I can't say no. So in January, I got a friend who did a run for charity. So every day the month, he did a kilometre for whatever day it was. So I joined him on the 26th. Those 26k. Wait, he says, if you can't on your bike, that's not cool. So I met that stage as well way. I've got clipping pedals. I've got cycling shoes. Yes. Clip into the pedals. So the pedals themselves. They clip. It's not just like a harness on the pedal. No, so yeah, the pedals have got, it's not a harness yet. And the pedals have got like a groove. Yes. Under your shoes, you have an attachment for the groove. Yeah. So I have those two. Yeah. My next question. Have you fallen yet? Well, this is where the story is going. Oh, no. You're going to throw your head. Yeah, so it's not fun. So I've joined my mate on the canal toopath. Do you know what canal is? Yeah. So the canal toopath. And in my head, a canal toopath is like gravel. So I've got these thin road ties. He's slinks. Yeah. Super, super, super, super. I've got in the canal toopath. And it's muddier's hell. Slip it. It's like an ice rink. Right. The worst thing is, I'm causing my mate and like out. Just getting on a canal toopath where all you says. I'm not far ahead. Catch me all. He's running. So I'm, I'm caining it. I'm doing some. But I'm thinking, oh, I'm going to fall off. So I'm being careful at the same time. Right. I'm going to fire me and it's down the canal. Not found. So I'm running again. He's confused me. He says, I don't know how. You must have come past me. So I turn back. Go the other way. And that's the annoying part of the story. Because if I didn't do that, I don't think we ought to fall on off. But I goes back to the way for two minutes. Now this is a right. He's definitely this way. So I pegged it again. And I know if he's saying pegged it. That was a word as well from the UK. So I pegged it down. It's going to be a towpath. And I've just gone sideways. And I've slits. And then I've gone head over heels. Oh, gosh. Smash my head on the side. I don't know how I would end up in the water. That's the only saving grace. But to make this long story short, I've never caught up with him. I've then lost my phone. And I've got a puncture. Oh no. Which meant that it's a run with the bike I'm about to the gym, which was the mile away, where my miss had find my iPhone on her phone. Yeah. So you know what I fear? 500ers. Yes. So then I have to proceed to drive 10 miles in a fear. 500 in my socks. So collect my phone. Oh, god. So yeah, that's fun. My story wasn't nearly as good when I fell. Yeah. I was at a stop side. And I couldn't get my foot out in time. Yeah. It's a four way stop. And there's cars everywhere. And they watch a growing man. Just going like that. It's easy to. Very easy to slow motion. Yeah. I never forget that day. And anybody who doesn't know your she. Your action hooked in goes. Why didn't he put his feet down? Yeah. Yeah. So the worst thing is, when you clip your right foot out, to stand on your right foot, and then you lean to the left. Yeah. That's the worst. Yeah. I nearly done that a few times and I'm to rip in my foot out of pedal. Yeah. Just. Oh man. What do you weigh now? So I'm not. A buzz between 28 and 28 you five. So you're not down at time. You're down at 20 pounds of actual muscle. Yeah. So competitively, I competed 300's. I'm 28. But yeah, in terms of muscle, if I was here two years ago, a 345. Yeah. Then I'm 65 pounds down. But 20 kind of ton more body fat as well. Right. Yeah. You're blowing up our season. Yeah. So I've just shot with a few people this weekend. I still don't feel like. Right. So you're hip sort of so late in your lower back. It's so late in. And it's a warm up before. You know, there's a time when you was a kid where you could just spring up and start sprinting. That's definitely not the case. So yeah, I still don't feel like. I think another 20 pounds. I would feel a ton more agile. Right. But I go below 280. And my miss is it's like a beacon goes off. He's like, what are you where you look skinny? Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah. Too easy. He's like, well, don't drop any lower. Okay. I'm thinking about your TV deal. Yeah. You've got to be a giant, right? So you've got to be at any lower than two weeks. That's it. Do they ever talk to you about your body weight? Like, do they even ask you what it is? No. Well, we have stats. So when it's at on TV, we all have stats. So they come up like a boxing match. But they did just weigh your wants. And that's a stat that you use. Yeah. Yeah. So that's on there. The weirdest thing for me is obviously as bodybuilders. We weight, we measure everything in inches. Right. And the stats are in centimeters. So my bias I've been measured in centimeters. My quad's measured in centimeters. And I've never known that bit of thing. But I don't know that's because I've been in bodybuilding so long. It's all up. No. Right. That's strange for me. Yeah. That's what it is. So what do you like 54 centimeters? I don't even know. Yeah. I can't even remember. I think it's about 52. It's 20 and a half, 21 inch by step. So I think it's like 52 54. Right. Yeah. And I think the quad's when I was bodybuilding. Like it's all in. Maybe a quad's like 32 inch. And I'm sure they're like 29. So they're downsides. Well, they're still decent sized. It still look really good. I saw the shots of you in your outfit. Yeah. And they're still like real big. Well, legs are huge. Yeah. The next and those guys. Right. Yeah. So that's a message to like any, you know, bodybuilding's out there. When you stop, if you still keep on top of your nutrition, you train in and all the things that we've learned along the way, you will retain a lot of that muscle. Oh yeah. It's hard to lose weight. If you have to make it come down. Yeah. Yeah. So when they put your stats up, I got to ask. Is it real stats? Or is this? Okay. So this isn't like made for TV stats where they're like, these 345. Yeah. No, it's really. Start running cards on. No. Yeah. The old wrestling thing. The ultimate warrior from parks on the right. Right. But the funny story to that is, so the UK tried to bring back gladiators about 10 years ago on a different channel on a on-sky one. Um, Sean Clarita. And that's true. You're up tomorrow, buddy. You're on tomorrow itself. You're definitely up tomorrow. Yeah. That's true for whatever reason. It didn't take off. And I think that's because it was on a Thursday night, a weird time on on a sky program then you know, didn't get the ratings. But fully enough. So I would have been mid-twenties. Mid-twenties. Mid-twenties. I applied to go on that show. No. I know how old it was because it's before I probably started competing. So that's like 23 24. And at the time, I was 15 stone. So in pounds, what's that? 210. Good. Wow. That's just quick. Wait, so only because it's around number of like 15. So, weighs it 140 pounds per cent. There you go. Um. I remember lying saying I was 16 stone. So I would have said I was like, 2, 2, 24, 2, 24. Yeah. And I think back in thought, God, I lied to say I was 16 stone. And I ended up being 340 bucks. Dude, do they know that you tried to get on already like 10 years ago in this guy one? Yeah, we discussed it. Yeah, that's funny. Yeah, that's crazy. You know, that's why as well. I think your body building at the minute, we're in an age where people want things yesterday. Yeah. Things take time. They're going to trust the time. Yeah, trust the time. Just the journey. Like everything will happen in the end. Yeah. Yeah. That's a big, big message. Yeah, for sure. What are some of the other things like when we had Dre on earlier and we talked about, you know, the ability to handle delayed gratification as a body builder. You have to put work in in order to get results. It might be a long ways away. Yeah. What are some of the lessons that you've learned in the past year with this whole experience with the show and stuff and interacting with the other athletes and the regular joes and just the whole thing and how the British television system works and just, I don't know, what lessons have you taken away whether it be business or family or anything like that? I think one of the biggest messages is how influential we can all be. Actually did something this morning that kind of makes that point. And then we're going to have a ton of messages from kids, from parents and it's too many. If I was to, do they have an email or somewhere where they, that people can just reach the giant or are they finding you and reaching out? Yeah. I think it's, at the minute we're all navigating this thing. Yeah. It's extremely busy. So they will, they will our places contact to try and get in contact with a giant. Ultimately they'll contact Jamie to try and contact the character. Right. So I got tons of messages daily and I can't reply to them all. Why I saw I think, you know what, if I can reply to a couple of days, and that might make their day. Absolutely. And I've been to the ability to do that is something that we shouldn't ever frown upon or turn away. I love that. Yeah. So that's what it's been, and then that goes for us as body builders and we've all got influence. And sometimes in the past, I've looked at those messages. Not, not now, not current in bodybuilding days when you've got some kid asking for advice. And it'll be in the message request, I'm like, no, but I know we can't reply to everyone, but I'm going to make a conscious effort to try and do some. Right. I like that. Skip it, but it recently, he said, he said, there's going to come a day that nobody's going to care about me at all. Yeah. He is like, so I'm definitely going to get back to the people I can. You know, absolutely. Yeah. And I know what you mean about that request folder. You know, you go through your primary. You mean, you got, like, there's days I open. I got 22 primary. Yeah. And then I go to that general. Yeah. And you got 15 more. Yeah. And then you go, well, what's the request like? And you're like, oh, geez, I just. I can't even see that. I can't even. Yeah. I can't even. I just can't do that right now. Yeah. And I'm trying to eat my breakfast. Yeah. And so I know what that means, but yeah, they times that by 10, but general television audience reaching out to you. Yeah. Menso. Yeah. The good thing is about the quests. It's like, read risks on WhatsApp. If you got them turned off, you can't say if they're ready on them. However, there's a question for you. So read, receive some WhatsApp on or off. Off. Yeah. Yeah. I leave everything on. Yeah. I don't know. I saw it and didn't answer. Yeah. I just like it. What I do all the time is I'll be like, oh, did the send of, like, oh, just take a quick peek. Oh, he's looking really good, but I don't, I'll get back to him in a couple hours. Yep. I'm just like, you know, you're working on red, but I don't want him to think like, Ron didn't you back to me, you know, yeah. So I just market on red and I go back after him done my meal or whatever and like give a good answer. Because, you know, there's those little short answers. You can fire off and then there's one where like, oh, this requires me to think and use both hands. Yeah. And so I'm like, I don't want that guy to see that I read it and then maybe feel bad for like five hours. Yeah. Yeah. I do the exact same thing. Yeah. I just, whereas, like, I understand Dusty's personality is the, the, it's the insult is part of the Dusty experience. So if you're going to, it's part of knowing Dusty is that is that hurt feeling you have to go through. Yeah. It's like a gateway to really get to know him. No. There you go. If you get that phone with your friends. Yeah. Who can you have on it? Yeah. I'm a stranger and you ignored me. Dusty, do you have, uh, I think you had a closing question. You had, you had, you had, you had, you had, you had. Yeah. That's, that's, that's, that's, I'm getting a got some rapid fires for you. Yes. That's good. We're going to rapid fire real quick here. And remember, no deep thinking. Keep it in the shallow into the pool. Okay. Need like a three second minimum. Right. All right. There you go. What is an item that you think is worth spending extra money on. So it could be fancy shoes. Good, to the paper. Good. Yeah. What, what, what, what, what, the one thing you're like more money is fine. Comfortable pants. But I'm not, not pants like underwear. Oh, all right. All right. I get those like kind of, itch the crotch or, yeah. Use the separator one with the package. Never mind. Come. I love like the sack. So yeah. Oh, I love that. This is what I mean. All right. What's the one thing that you regret spending money on that you've spent before? Oh. Okay. I got a good one here. So I am, when we moved into our first house, we got some China. Some China plates. No. So nice China. We got some nice China. We got some nice China. We got some nice China. These plates are like very grown up. Yeah. For four plates. It was 400 pounds. Oh, God. And then that's about a bowl as well. And they were like another 400 pounds. And it is a little fork and the big fork that match the China. And you never used those. No, no, no. Well, we do. And the worst thing is, I haven't been in the dishwasher and they faded a bit as well. Oh, God. And the even worst thing is I bought a set from like next, which is a home store in the UK. I bought a set. Why in gold? And these nice ones are white and gold. This set was like 40 quits. And they're just as nice. There you go. Never fails. Never fails. All right. Finish this phrase. The way to my heart is. Food. That is not the way you're going to say. That is not the way to say. That is not the way to say. We know the second fastest way. Jamie's heart is food. Thank you. Jamie. There you go. All right. Couple more. Would you rather travel to the past or the future? The future. All right. What are we doing while we're there? You have 10 minutes. 10 minutes. Oh, my God. We're going to get out of the bank balance. We're going to see where we live. Check the wife's rack. Make sure it's still heading north. If we need an upgrade. I'll farm the future. Speaking of that, what was your last impulse? I'm a post-bomb. I'm a post-bomb. I'm a post-bomb. I'm a post-bomb. I'm a post-bomb. I'm a post-bomb. I'm a post-bomb. I'm a post-bomb. I'm a post-bomb. I'm a post-bomb. It was a chair. A chair that told me that it was going to be great for my bank. Yes. And it was a backlash chair that you kind of like nearly to luck or a sea salt. And it was terrible. That sounds terrible. It was like you fell for it in life. Yes, that sounds terrible. That was your own sale. Wasn't it? It was a terrible idea. That was a broken chair today. It was just cool. That was a solid stool. The price of good advertising. Last but not least. What holiday activity do you think is overrated? So in the UK we are boxing today. Yes. Yesterday the day after Christmas day. And on boxing day you normally... We got that too. Go around the family's house and have dinner around the family's house. It's the family that you don't like enough to do Christmas with. But you're out of the gate and you go see it. Yeah. So you go. That's exactly what it was. I wasn't going to drive to your house yesterday. But today I had to come. Yeah. Okay. I'm going to work excuses. Oh, that's amazing. I can't close out better than that. But Trina's impulse by boobs and not like in his experience. Yeah. I can't feel that he lied. He lied on some of his answers. He never took to the right path. He goes, oh. But we know what they thought. I saw BBC wrink about the screen to go. Food. Yeah. Think about your audience. I don't know Jamie. What have read that differently? It's corporate overlords or watching you. I'm going to turn the dial. There we go. There we go. Okay. That's good. That's awesome. It's good to have you on again man. Nice question. It's great to be on a podcast again. I've got no more for a long time. You know what else about you Jamie? I think we all feel the same. You're one of the guys where like, Once last time we actually spoke. Yes. Like some of the messages he did over here. Yeah. But it just feels like I just saw you at the last expo. You know what I mean? And you know, it's your recent extraordinary famous. I changed you sir. No. And I do feel as though I've been changed. And I don't foresee me changing. And when people say, oh, don't let it change. I just think there's a type of person that it changes. Oh yeah. I don't think I'm not talking to person. Wow. So I have one more question. Yeah. We forgot the real question. Oh, exactly. Do they send you a weekly check? Or do you have paid once for the season? Oh, I don't know if I can answer. Oh, okay. It's split. Split into pups. Yeah. Okay. Split into pups. So you get paid to do the show. And then there's residuals or something like that. I don't know. I don't know the right words. So we got a fee for doing the show. Yeah. And then it might be fees for promo work. Or extra appearance. Yeah. Okay. I think that's all. And then so it's season two and option for them on the contract. Well, how does that work? Yeah. So we're contract to the minute the green light was for one season. But we all like rent down for other seasons. Right. Given the BBC's authorization. So we just all on that and keep that rolling. Yeah. We're in that situation again. We're looking good. What is not 100% love this game with you. Yeah, they love that life. No, they do that life. Okay. That's awesome. Well, we always use the most success. Yeah. It's we get excited when we see like one of us. Well, any of us, you know, doing well past competing. Because like you said, competing takes a lot out of people, takes a lot out of your life. And if you do it the right way, he can lead you in an incredible direction where you can do some really cool things. Yeah, it can. And then I thank bodybuilding to this day for everything it's taught, all the willpower dedication, resilience, mentality, is something that, you know, I think everybody can learn something from. And I still have a tiny bladder by the way. Oh, we'll wrap this up. The giant on the show. Good to have you, Jamie. Yeah, pleasure. Guys, thank you very much. Remember, I am mutant.com. Go to I am mutant.com, get your ISO search, get your all in. And everyone should get on the gear. Dusty 20, big run 20. Jamie's got a code to TMG20. There you go. There you go. And, I think, big Patreon. Keep producing homes. Keep producing homes. Hit the Patreon up. Throw like five bucks a month. You won't even notice it. You'll see the show quality rise all of a sudden. And you get content. And we get you get early release. And you get preferential question taking an answering. Yes. So, all right. Yeah. Okay. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. There you go. Thanks everybody. And remember, it's just bodybuilding.

In the span of six weeks, it's taking 400 milligrams a day. I had lost 10 pounds of pure fat while doing zero cardio. Zero dieting. You don't want to inhibit myosin. You want to lower it. You don't want to inhibit activein, which is like the protein that has all of the major side effects of inhibiting myosin. I think that you are going to see people, and they're not necessarily juice up. They're just on these peptides and maybe TRT, and they look great. And I think that it's like you said it's going to happen. You're going to see a leaner version of America. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building. Big round parlor here with Dusty Handsha, and the producer Scott McNally, remember to like, share, comment, subscribe, and ring the bell. There you go. Thank you Dusty. Remember I am mutant.com. Good. I am mutant.com. Get your hardcore ISO, get your mind FK, and everyone should get on the gear. Brian Moscow, the gorilla chemist. Back for our second round. Is this round two? Yeah. Not round three. Yeah. That's awesome, man. Me and Brian have talked many times about YouTube. We go back years, years. Yeah. Nothing to do in bodybuilding. I remember the first thing I met you. We stood at a booth, and I think we talked about music. In the show. In the show. Yeah. Yeah. The Yet of Biohazard. No, I was like, oh, it's funny. Yeah. You never want to get in those at the time. Yeah. I think you had purple hair at the time. I can't. Probably. You won't remember something weird. That's the only first met, and I knew who you were, just chatting away, but we talked about music for like, I think we talked about tool for a while. Yeah. I love tool. Yeah. So it's cool. I was like, oh, okay, that guy's, that guy's one of my people. Yeah. It's good to have you back, man. What have you been doing? What's going on with the grill economist? So recently, I became the Chief Science Officer for Biohazard. Which is a research and peptide company, right? So we do things that are, you know, not for human consumption is for research. Of course. And the laboratory might back it to a lot of research. Yeah. And it's a very cool company that they, they actually contacted me, and I was very hesitant about it at first, just because I didn't know that space enough. And I didn't trust that space enough because, you know, who knows what can happen in that world. And, um, but basically, there's a molecule called SLU PV332. I don't know if you guys heard of it. It's an exercise, man, man. Right? So it came out probably like two years ago. And read the studies on it. It was finally able to get some samples. Everyone's dosing it at like 200 micrograms or 250 micrograms. 500 micrograms, right? But I read the study and I'm like, okay, they injected rats with 50 migs per kilo, which is around 4 milligrams per kilo in humans, right? So if they're taking a 4 milligrams per kilo in an injection, even if the bioavailability, let's call it, you know, 20%, which I think it's slightly higher. It's based on the fact that it doesn't go through any of your CYP 450, which are what like, oxidized things, right? So considering that, um, I was like, okay, let me try. Let me try. I'm about 100 kilos. Let me try 400 milligrams. See what happens. So I did this for six weeks, right? I had just done a podcast with, um, Nile, right? You know, from the trend, trend. Transparent? Yeah. Yeah. So if you look at my face in that, in the reals, and then you look at my face now, or even when I posted that video, in the span of six weeks, it's taking 400 milligrams a day. I had lost 10 pounds of pure fat while doing zero cardio, zero dieting. Literally, I loved twizzlers, uh, cherry. Well, not the normal one. Love the cherry. I was eating twizzlers, uh, racist, love, Reese's, um, I, I, I eat carbs. I'm not a, I'm not afraid of carbs. Uh, and I was working out probably about 40 a week, not like crazy. But like, and I got, I don't ever train abs. I just, I had, but I'm not like, I'm not like diced abs. Yeah. Yeah. There's never, there's, they're not trained. But um, I just noticed after like three weeks, I'm like, there's something going on. Like, this is working. This is not like the, uh, GW crap, or like the SS, 90's or not. This is something different. So I made this post, and I was like, okay, this is what the dose of the injectable version is, right? So I took the oral dosing of the injectable once daily in the morning and got this like phenomenal. And I want to say, and I don't like digging credit for things, but I think I was the first person to really talk about high dose. You're the first person. Say the full name of it again. SLU-PP-332. You're the first person. I knew that it was dosing it like that. That's for sure. Yeah. I don't know. I just never saw anybody dosing it like that. So I was like, let's, let's see what happens. And you know me like, I only changed one variable at a time. So like I was just on a TRT dose. I'd know other chemicals besides that, right? Yeah. And I was like blown away by how strong this was. So I made this video. And then that had that, uh, they kind of reached out to me through, uh, one of their, the guy, that is the name is Matt Christ, uh, Chris Munis in charge of their affiliate program. He reached out to me. We started chatting. He's like, dude, Jay wants to talk to you. And I was like, okay, I don't know. And then, um, we had a Zoom call. Then they're like, this was like a Monday. And then they're like, bro, can you fly out to Ohio on Thursday? It's like, okay. And then that with everybody, um, very cool guys. Very, very strategic. I like everything they want to do. And they gave me a lot of, you know, freedom of what they want from me and ideas and stuff. And I was like, I think this is a good fit because now I'm not really restricted by like, to share, you know what I mean? Like, I don't have, these are all, you know, research stuff. So I have, I have things I can play around with. I think I can make like literally and just like, I supplement company. Right. Now we're research are only. And so like, I can, you know, to revitalize things that are out and like, you know, make that would be cool. Well, publications. Right. So like, so this example of this SLU stuff, right. Um, some companies are trying to sell it as like a li-offelized powder, right. But as zero zero solubility in water in the mice, these DMSL, right. And they're going to kill these mice in like, you know, three weeks or whatever. So nobody's worried. And plus they're using like 99.9% pure DMSL. And so people are trying to sell its powder and if you're reconstituted in water, it just sits there, just floats like zero zero solubility. So he's worth saying, well, let's, you know, once you just try and inject those, because it's not going to work. As I go use DMSL, I was like, no, first off, you have no idea how they make DMSL industrial grade. You know, you know, you know, but he hears ordering from sigma alder's DMSO, so that there's no impurities. There's a couple bad impurities that come from the large scale manufacturers. So I'm not injecting that into my body when I could just take this early, which I have done and know that it worked. Yeah. But I have some ideas about either to make it more water soluble or even make it like oil soluble with some alterations. So that's one of the things that I'm working on trying to get out of. Yeah, I was doing a little of that too. I was working with some solubility and some compounds in my kitchen. Yes. You know, the kid might alter a molecule later, but I got, Ron does runs to return. Yeah. Ron offers molecules all the time. I don't want to rest around. Yeah. Well, I finish it off. I finished it off. I finished it off. I finished it off. I got a question already. I, so you mentioned Brian that the SLU is not going through the sip 450 pathway. Can you, can you expand upon that a little bit, please? Everyone, what is that mean? What is that mean? Okay. So people are safety. Right. So see why people for these are called side of problems. And what they do is they have some type of oxygenase enzyme, where they oxidize a double bond. They add a hydroxy group. They add a ketone. They do something to metabolize the molecule. And then they go in further, sometimes to make like glucoronization, which adds a glucoron molecule to it to make it water-cylicy can pee it out. Yeah. So it doesn't go through that pathway. The major thing that I see from a chemistry point of view is there's a nitrogen double bond in the middle of the compound. Right. And if you know, if you know nothing about chemistry, nitrogen double bonds when they're connected are kind of unstable, because nitrogen loves to be free nitrogen. Loves to be nitrogen-tribal bond goes in the gas. Right. Loves that. That's how like explosions happen. And when you use nitrates and you form oxygen and then like, nitrogen just loves to break apart. So what I see happening is the your stomach acid in your digestive tract is probably breaking them all, killed down either at the night. And they're at the nitrogen, I keep to younger, but they're amnibond, like an amino acid, somewhere there or the actual nitrogen double bond. One of those who places has gotta be where it's broken down. But, I mean, again, I took it for six weeks orally and had these results. And then when I read the studies, they even mentioned in the study that it seems to have a longer lasting effect after you stop taking it. So this compound is making your mitochondrial more efficient. Oh, yeah. You're producing way more ATP. Your oxidase phosphorylation is working really, really well. Like, you know, crev cycle oxidase phosphorylation ATP. Like, you're cranking out energy, right? The main thing I noticed was a very slight elevation of body heat. And we're not talking like DMP body because you're not uncopling anything. You're making it actually more efficient. So that was like the biggest thing I noticed from the molecule. So if I had to guess about your original question, it's getting hydrolyzed at either that amnibond or that nitrogen-nibond, and that's where it comes from, breaking down. Okay. Yeah, I was just curious because I feel like I've been told, and I haven't had genetic testing to prove it, that I don't do well with things that break down through the CIP 450 pathway. That said, I do really good with SLU. In fact, I don't know if you guys know this Ron and Dusty, but you know, I've been making like a huge transformation for myself, just getting him back into shape this year. And SLU has been a big part of it. Like, I know you told me you were trying it out, but we haven't asked you about it since then, you know? And this whole test of landscape is so crazy now. Yeah, get this brand. So I've dealt in, for like the last five years with the long flu, we'll call it. So, you know, a lot of, you know, brain fog, chronic fatigue, stuff like that. And if I train really hard, it would really kick that up to the point where like, I'd have really weak stuff like not able to eat, you know? Like really foggy feeling, just terrible sleep, everything just went, you know, south. So I try SLU, and I'm able, I'm finding like every source, my energy, breathing has been an issue. I found it restored my breathing in for the first time in five years. And now I'm not dosing it like you have. I've been running it up to 500, which 500 mics, which I, I'll get back to that a second. But due to it, it literally has, I will say, transform my life like restored everything since I had gotten sick. On that dosing man, I feel like I get, I'm not going to say like, spun up, but I feel like I do really good with that small dose. And I'm like, my mind is blowing, and we talked a little bit about this on DM. But tell audience, like you didn't experience any negative sides or anything like that, right? No, I got blood work done before and after. And H.L. was was fine. LDL was was lower, fasting, glucose was lower. A1C was the same, which is still like in a good range of not bad. I'm like, I'm not pretty diabetic or anything like that. I mean, it didn't affect any of the normal thing. Lever ends on, we're fine because you know, it's not going through that way anyway. So everything was, Obama blood work was perfect. So I don't know, I can't see what mechanism of action it would have other than any time you mess with my, I'm going to take a picture personally of my conversations with me, they're completely different taking care of it. Right. Number two. How Do you get focused down, in a community setting settings, which is still disappearingYY to me is actually something which is one. Explain to us what reactive oxygen species is. So they are in some molecule with an oxygen on it, right? That is has an unpaired electron? Well, how is it happening? Oh, like what yeah, what? Just for like, yeah, try to remember who you're talking to. Okay, you got Ron and does it? Okay, let's see. So it's a paid part. Go. When you when you when your body is doing from like taking carbs to make ATP through the system that we call oxidative phosphorylation, there's a gradient that causes ATP synthase to work. And it has the protons on top, it has the electrons on the bottom and that potential energy difference is what drives that force. And so when you're going when you're producing more ATP, then you're getting electrons from the Krebs cycle, you know, and you guys know what NADH and FADH to are right. They're just electron carriers basically. So they get the electrons that are generated in the Krebs cycle and bring them to get that gradient, right? So sometimes these electrons get stolen or taken away by another free radical type species and then they become very reactive. And so they're they're very unstable, chemically. So they're trying to steal, maybe. They're trying to steal any type of hydrogen or something that is like on a cell wall or somewhere to make it. So that compound is in our stable because it's missing an electron that needs to for to be stable. So these are very highly reactive compounds. And they're very damaging, right? Just like free radical damage, these are called oxidative damage, right? They're very damaging to your endothelial system, to your brain, to your heart. Like just liver, tons of things where these species are just bad for you. So anytime your mitochondrial is trying to make more energy, you know, like if you're taking DNP for one example, your body creates these very harmful reactive species that literally are so reactive that like the first thing they come in contact with, they will just rip an electron off so that they are not reactive anymore. But then they leave something behind that is reactive. And that's where like this snowball effect kind of happened. And what could be like the say the real world effects of too much of this in our bodies of our OS? Like I said, um, endophelial effects, like blood flow, relaxation of our vasodilation, and if you can't see any damage, neuro damage, like because we're not selling, even like cell wall damage, you know, like every cell, you know, is a cell with like a wall made of different things, right? So if you imagine every time one of these species is plucking away against your cell, your cell's just going to lie set some point, right? And pulling a break out of a wall, everyone's in a wall. Exactly. Exactly. But like imagine doing okay. Yeah. If you're doing that a lot of any wall lots of everything. Great. You got brick going missing, boom, boom, boom. Yeah, exactly. So your cells just become very unstable and they can deteriorate very rapidly. So you're saying that's when there's an imbalance in mitochondria are making more energy than they're getting fed the product for. Is that kind of my laments? Or it's like a waste with, or is it more like a waste with a waste of the product? Yeah. It's a byproduct of the total reaction of, you know, making ATP. Right. So like even anytime you jack your ATP production in your mitochondria, you also have to think, well, others more free radicals, more byproduct of making energy. So it's not just 100% free ride. Oh, my mitochondria are just cranking. Right. Right. So yeah. So that's the one thing that I suggest people just be aware of. That there's something that, that you know, you can cause some type of damage for long periods of time. But I don't ever recommend people doing anything for a long period of time. Right. Yeah. So I wanted to, you know, that this peptides, everyone's talking about, I got normal people at the gym now. I got dudes that have never been to a bodybuilding show. They don't know what what trend is. They just, they hear kids, and they're like, hey, I need some of this BPC or my shoulder. I should get some of this TB or I should try this. Mont Sea. I heard it's great. Good morning. Instead of having so much caffeine and these these normal people now like this normie breakthrough with these peptides. And it's wild. Athletes like I know what guy was a golfer. He's never been to a gym. He's saying, hey, I should order some of this BPC to have a like this is, you know, really, you'll penetrate it, right? So help us, help us make some sense to this. And I'm wondering if you can start where I think it all began, which my first peptide memory was way back when we got hit with GHRP to GHRP 6, the Moralin, you know what I mean? I mean the C talking, like 95412 or B? 4,000,000, yeah, yeah, because I remember they used to sell like NGF. Yeah, that's the G8. So no one could get to growth BPC, the you know, generic Chinese kids back then. So the frag came out everyone was like, and then the IGFLR3, which I want to ask you about and all that stuff was like peptide city. What happened to all of those and are any of those first, I'll call them first gen for our right. I like that. Are any of those first gen peptides? What's their usefulness still? Or what do we know about them now? Are they still relevant? Some of them, yeah, I think they kind of read, I think they rebranded HGHF as AOD904. So there was a, some alteration to it, with a tire, with tiracene, I think, because it is just from what I understood, because I thought the same thing, that it was the exact same thing, and then one of our listeners mentioned that to me, and I looked. So it is that. Yeah, the one amino acid difference, right? Yeah, yeah. So like it's essentially that same molecule. But like as far as the growth hormone ones, it's come a long way, you know, secretive gags. I love that word. Yeah. I think CJC is still pretty popular 1295. I like the with that version, the drug affinity complex, I think that works. That made it long, long acting, right? It just made it, well, it already was long acting. CJC is a once to twice a week injection. But I remember some guys were like, with that, and some guys were like, without that, you know, there is this like, I know. I just like, a drink of a drug affinity complex as like the receptor. So say, let's look for an analogy. Let's call you Andrew and receptor. And let's call your CJC, the Andrewton, right? So if you add the DAC, the DAC is the part that fits in Andrew and receptor. So like, think of it that way for growth hormone, right? So now you have a growth hormone to critical that is has a special affinity towards the receptor versus not having. Okay. So it's kind of just like a guided missile type of system. I think I always tell Alex. I did. So I did. So I think that one's very prevalent. Apple more than people still use a lot. But they've come a long way, like you said with, um, as far as like BPC is probably everybody is on BPC and like TB 500 for injuries. These are like miracle working things. And then like, um, GHK copper, right? Yeah. Or they adapt one is is another miracle worker for like skin care, collagen, boosting, because it has the actual copper ion. And people are always funny because it's like, it's blue. It's like, why is it blue? It's like, it's fucking copper, too. And copper, too, is blue when you add it in water. So like, right, if you would, people don't know enough about peptides, but I went with biology with JK Kable over to London a couple of weeks ago to this, um, essentially like a, uh, not like an expo for people like in the peptide world and optimizing health and longevity, right? So all these people are genuinely interesting in like peptides, what's the future of peptides? What are they doing? How can they do it? And just listening to people talk and then, um, hearing the questions are asked, they're just a very educate like they really want to know what's going on. And I think peptides are like the the perfect blend of like things that your body is naturally doing and producing like BPC is is from your naturally produced in your gastrochryte, right? So like, we're not synthetically making, uh, this isn't something that's completely synthetic, because it's something that naturally occurs in your body, right? So these are like blending in a way your natural, what your body naturally heals with the, I don't, I hate the term like pharma, but it's like, you know, medically, yeah, like a, if a pharmaceutical grade version of Ronnie Coleman would put it, we've better technologies now. Yes. Remember? Oh, yes, I do it. So like I think, um, I think that that in the last like you said, uh, people that aren't even into body building or anything, that the, the, the word peptide, which people don't even know what that means, because peptide is really literally just two or more amino acids, covalent me bound together. Two, yeah, two or more. I mean, BPC is I think five, right? Super short. Um, and then, uh, just people, this word peptide just became a huge buzzword, and then there's clinics opening up, and the problem is that, uh, the FDA, you can't, you can't, you can't patting these things. So like, you know, the, the, the, you could patting these GLP ones, right, which they're making billions and billions of dollars on, but like, choosing a generic peptide, you can't patting it. So like that, that's what's going to happen is there's going to be this, I don't know, say, the word, but there's going to be this, this, um, issue between peptide companies and big pharma. Like, I've, I've seen it happen in my, very short span with bio long, jelly labs, um, with my count got flag three times last two weeks, for violating rules about talking about drugs, which I talked about drug, my every single time on the page, and I've always put for information purposes only, and I'm literally just talking about studies and they flagged all the, they post and stories and shit, like, they're like really cracking down this because on Instagram, on Instagram, yeah, it seems like they're going hard lately on Instagram. Yeah, I mean, I mean, I mean, I was silent, I was connected with a while. They got, you know, stuff happened with them, and they had, you know, clothes and, and reopen and other companies. I know, so it's like, because this is a money grabber from pharma, like whoever's controlling meta or whatever is like flagging stuff, very, very hard. So, you know, they're just, we're just putting information out there, but yeah, to you like to your original question, I think peptides are very key for literally anyone. You don't have to be a buy-bill, and you don't have to be an athlete. If you have an injury, you can drastically drastically improve or cover time through combinations of, like you said, TB 500, BPC 157, some of the GHA, two ones like if I'm more a little bit of things like that, everything that accelerates healing in your body. What your body naturally does in general, you're just accelerating it. And so I've heard plenty of stories, including, you know, close friends, that have had, you know, pectares or injuries and things, and they do these protocols before their surgery after their surgery, and they're all their physicians and their PTs guys are, like, dude, what are you doing? Like, this is crazy. And so I just think, just had an injury in a shoulder and his physicians can't believe his situation now after doing what he did, you know? It was like a BPC TV type of thing. Yeah, it was kind of peptides and, you know, you did that. So they're seeing doctors are seeing it too. They're like, what the fuck do you do? Yeah, it's getting noticed because these these things work. We know they work. Yeah. So it's just the matter of, you know, can you sell them for human consumption? No. So you have to get around that. So yeah. So we got a lot of people that are, I don't want to say as dumb as us, but they're a huge, they're huge and like us. And this isn't a show. And like this is, this is great info. Like I'm loving this, but I want to make sure we do like a real layman breakdown of the main peptides so that everyone can like get like a, you know, a punch through for each one and just here like you're kind of basic summary of whether you think they're effective yet or they're not quite ready to do what they're supposed to do. Do you know what I mean? Yeah. So it's just peptides, not research chemicals, right? Like not small all because just peptides. Yeah. Yeah. So it just throw a few at you and you let me know like, is this, is this one going to stay or is this going to get like, you know what I mean? What's going on? I used to like, IGF1, LR3 back in the day, back back in the day. And people would tell me it doesn't work, doesn't do anything, doesn't work. But I had a friend who was diabetic, he was on, he had a glucose monitor. He was actually worked as a clinician with diabetic patients. So he was very educated. He was super aware. He was the smartest diabetic bodybuilder I've ever, you know, been known. Great, you know, good bodybuilder got peeled like he knew a shit. Yeah. He said when he used LR3, he used half as much insulin that day. Insulin likes. So there was something going on. But what do you think it actually does is it valuable for a bodybuilder or is it just affecting his blood sugar when he says that? So I had this talk years ago with Patrick Romm who you guys, all every one of you guys know, he is going for the people that are under 30. Don't know who he is. He is the infamous slash most famous chemists in our industry. Patrick Romm. The godfather of pro hormones, you know, Introducing three, undetectable compounds at the time and the Olympics. Just like brilliant guy, he was the original chemist guy. And then so he and I talked. I was like, don't you need to, for I just worked, doesn't have to bind to like the binding protein three and he's like, yeah, that's what it thought. So like if you block it, the LR3 prevents it from binding to the binding protein three, right? That's what BP3 is right. It's just a way. Tactic like the, yeah, it just, yeah, it just can't chemically bind. They alter it with what to our genie or one of the amino acids. So it doesn't actually cope fit in the enzyme pocket. And so it floats around you by it's very, it's, it's in your system for a long time. Long acting. Yeah. Right. But I don't know. I don't think it is as effective for muscle building purposes as straight IGF because why would they have incorrect x as the trademark brand of IGF1 if LR3 worked better? Right. Yeah. That's a point. I don't see why they would do that. So like every clinic that that prescribed IGF1 is incorrect x as far as I know. Right. So I think that which is also has side effects of its own compared to like growth hormone that actually converts to IGF1. Because there's no checks and balances when you're taking straight IGF1 versus at some point, if you're taking like 30 IGFs of growth hormone today at some point your body is going to say, nope, this we have way too much. We're just going to stop the conversion of growth hormone into IGF1. And it just cuts it off. Like we'll just increase some out of step and we'll break it down and that's it. So when you when you take straight IGF1 you're completely bypassing that system, yeah, which is why it's so dangerous for like, you know, that's what meta-roll is hard. That's one of the reasons I stopped using it was meta was was talking at the time of boat how he wasn't fan theoretically of IGF1 and he wasn't saying not to take it, but he just thought, you know, I want to interrupt because I actually have a client I talked to Scott about this that was using growth has fears of health in general, which I love wants to make sure everything's in check. Then he came across some IGF1 LR3 wanted to look into that. I sent him a long spiel that Scott gave me breaking down exactly what you just said and his response was good, yeah, I'll definitely stop taking the growth. Now I want to start that IGF1. What? You must have heard it properly. I know he's going to listen to this and knows that you are very, very, very respected in this. In your opinion, what is the better route to take if you were going to take one of those and if you were worried about health, which is the one you would not do? I would much rather take growth from from a safety standpoint versus a straight IGF1. The correlation of IGF1 and cancer is a pretty strong correlation as you know, there's no checks and balances. You're injecting straight IGF, it's going to get to yourselves and it's going to make them grow. Your heart included. Tumers included. Growth hormone still has to convert the IGF1 to get the antibody effect. There still has to be something enzymatically going on in your body for that to happen. Right. So for this way, also sort of create a little bit of a time release effect compared to a wall of supers. Right. Yeah, because the half-life of IGF1, I believe is very, very short. Like 20 minutes. Minutes. Right. So that's why people were told to always pin it. In the muscle right if you work out kind of thing, where your satellite cells are going to recruit it and take it right up and that kind of thing. So the half-life is super, super short. So I wouldn't touch IGF1. Like IGF1 is just not something I'm interested in. And I've only used growth hormone twice and just because it's so expensive. And you know, every, I've only, and it's only farmer, like, I don't really trust any of these. Right. Like what? Chinese sources or whatever, related, whatever you call, I don't trust them at all. And I just know everybody will there. I've ever talked to whose use growth is like the eight to ten range is kind of like, where you see the results. Yeah. And not like the two to four, maybe for like longevity or skin or something like that, you know, getting to sure. That's a bit better. But like, yeah, but if you're looking for like the actual growth, like muscle building effects, I heard it doesn't take place until you get to like higher doses. And then, you know, if you're talking about, you know, Sarah's them, which is like what 18 I use a vial. So you're using like 30 much of vial in two days. And like that's what six or seven vials, right? And then you see, you know, you're talking about a few days where a week maybe for like 14 14 days out of a kit. Yeah. And they're like, that's five. All of it. All of it. I'm not a bit exactly what I used my entire career. Give him a dose. He gives you the timeline. But is am I right? Does he with the dosing like don't you need a higher so my experience was simple. Like I used to run for you, you know, really pretty much all the time. And then during a prep one year, we bumped it up to eight. And it was the first time in my career that my weight during the prep got down to like 256. And we started that at about eight weeks out and I competed at 270. I went up and like Chris was like, okay, you're really good at getting lean, but you suck it losing weight. Like, yeah, I just got harder and harder and just like the scale just started going the other way. And I mean, it was undeniable like for the worst genetics for shape and body building of me, all of a sudden muscle is round and 3D looking everywhere. And I was like, okay, so you got to double the expense to make this stuff work. And it was night and did you have any like insulin sensitivity issues? I didn't and the only the only thing I ever saw, which I always died as a hard, you're on little carbs. Yeah, I was barely eating food at this point, but hard to get resisted. The only thing I ever saw was my hands. I'd wake up at the middle of the night and have to like, yeah, shake the hands out because they're dead. But I mean, other than that, it was fantastic. And again, it was short, short, lived during that time. And then back down, but it was definitely undeniable. I was like, okay, four was like taking it because it was part of the plan. And it was like, okay, this is very, very different. What do you think? Just a quick, just a quick backtrack. Just one sentence. This is all I need. What do you think was happening with my buddy's blood sugar when he's like, yeah, I use less insulin if I use LR3. I don't know what's going on, but my insulin's dead uses down. If it's not attaching properly, is that LR3 eventually getting cleaved off and it's getting a little bit of something going on or what? Yeah, I mean, yeah, the LR3 does eventually you get light stuff and it does bind at some point. It's going to happen. But what I think, if I had to guess, is that because of, hold on, because of like the cascade of events that happen when you take something, you know, like, you have this out as in this out of the this out of what I think is that's a lot of it. I knew it. I knew it was going to happen. I saw it coming. Yeah, I think what happened is that because you have this insulin like, uh, growth factor that's in your body. It is also targeting kind of your, it's playing around with your insulin. So what could have been happening is it causing his body to release less insulin so that is getting because you say he was type two, you said, or type one. Yeah, yeah, yeah, he was, yeah, he was using insulin. Yeah. Okay. So he's type one. So he had to use less, right? You said that's insulin. Yeah. Yeah. So in order to you body of teen units, I'm down to eight like you whatever. So yeah, it was probably working synergistically to, because obviously he can't produce his own insulin, but there is a pathway where they can interact and you could have some sort of insulin, like effect, which is probably what happened. If I get very interesting. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. What about, what about Mont Sea? Explain to us what Mont Sea is give us kind of the laments paragraph on that and what you think of that compound. So Mont, Mont Sea is another, um, mitochondrial efficient sea type of. So the same category as SLU in your mind for as far as what a body builder would use it for. This is yes, it's supposedly has some cognitive effects. I haven't tried it yet. I've got it. I've gotten the cognitive benefit, but I feel like I'm real sensitive to the mitochondrial enhancers given probably have some deficiencies. That said, for me, I definitely noticed it, but it was no SLU. I'll put it down. Yeah. So I wouldn't, I wouldn't classify it as an exercise memymic. I would say SLU is a true exercise memymic, like your body is mimicking exercise, where this is enhancing just your general efficiency of mitochondria. You're not like cranking out ATP like you are as if you were exercising, which is what SLU is doing. With the SLU exercise memymetic, um, I've read some stuff and heard some people talk about the concept of exercise memetics of various kinds because there could be a lot of different types. Do you still get, and I heard their answers, but I want your answer, with an exercise memymetic, do you still get the health benefits of exercise? Like do they see the memetic part, like doing the things that exercise does to us to make us healthier? Is there any carryover there? If I had to guess, I think as far as like cholesterol control glucose tolerance or glucose sensitivity improvement, I would say yes, but you're not going to sit on a couch and gain muscle if that's what you mean? No, no, I'm just talking about like health markers that they, you know, look at, yeah, they take an unhealthy person and they make them walk. And their markers all improve. Like is that memymetic going to move markers on someone? I think this one will. Like I said, I got my blood work done in my fasting glucose was down, my LDL was down, your um, small particle LDL, or which is like the dangerous ones, those go down as well. So the Apple B, APOB, is that it is? APOB? Isn't that isn't there a type of LDL called APOB, like APO-S-DASB? Oh, I'm blanking on the name. I just know them as like the small particle ones, like you have like your HTO, what am I talking about? Apple B, isn't that? I know what you're talking about, but I love Apple B's. Apple B's, you know, that's very bad for cholesterol. I can't tell you this. I'm starting to see guys finish their contest, props now, and we're doing labs right after, you know, everything. And we're talking guys that are, you know, running orals guy, you know, people that are doing the things you do in a contest prep. And, you know, for instance, Ron, UC summa, just finished a string of three shows, you know, did everything as we normally would do in his lab work, post-contest two weeks after the show looks better than ever. And, and it totally, I'm seeing that, you know, in multiple cases with lab work even in proving, it's kind of led to a question that we've kind of been thrown around in a couple of the other shows is, do you think Brian that this stuff is going to lead people to use more gear? Like, hey, I can get away with running a gram year-round now, you know what I mean? I mean, I've got my health, I'm not, I'm not. Yeah, I got it. I'm trying to get bad blood work now. Yeah, I mean, like I'm trying to get bad blood work, and I'm up to five grams a week. Yeah. I mean, as far as I know, I don't see any pathway of SLU preventing plaque buildup. Yeah, okay. That's the calcification. That's still going to be a thing. Now, we know that exercise, any right for that should. Yeah. And like we know vitamin K2 helps prevent calcification. We know natto kinase helps with dropping your lipids and with the preventing of plaque buildups, like that. So like, yeah, there's certain things that you can do, but I don't think that just because you're overall like blood general blood work is good, that doesn't mean that you're not going to have these consequences of taking large amounts of existence. Yeah. Yeah, because I think sometimes people just look at their labs and they're like, oh, my labs are perfect. So that means everything is good, you know, I'm healthy. That's a good point. What do you think if someone like, you know, I'm turning 50 in a couple of weeks? What do you look fucking great? You're 60. Really? I always, I thought we were the same agent, and I'm, you know, like I said, I'm 44, you look, I thought we were the same age for a lot of them. You don't even have this gray like I do. You're just only gray now. And I got six years less than him. I'm 44, too. Oh, it's a heraphyletic grow against words. What would be I already take nanocyanase and I already take vitamin K? I got a calcium score done last year or sorry, earlier this year, and it came out 0030. So I had a total score of 30 because you know, they give you four numbers and it was all zeros, but a 30. And so what can I do to just make sure that doesn't go up? I got nanocyanase, I got vitamin K. What other things would be smart? What else would you put on a list if you were? You know, just, you know, want to make sure that you take care of your arteries and you know, you pick, um, you pick one all? I would have said, yeah, I think you take you pick one all. You take, you take, uh, Arjuna extract? No, I don't know. I would look into Arjuna extract that that specifically is for like, um, left ventricle hypertrophy. I think it has more, more cardio-protective effects to that degree. Okay. Um, something that is not over the counter that that we're working on. Have you ever heard of the protein Clotho? No. So Clotho is a protein that you're buying naturally makes in the kidneys and tons and tons of health benefits. I want you guys to look into Scott, want you to look into this. All right, like a, just a little deep. It's okay. Okay. K-O-O-T-A. Yeah, K-O-O-T-H-O Clotho. Um, this is a protein that is right now being investigated for like the main thing is chronic kidney disease. But cardio-protective, uh, neuro-genitive protective, as far as like build up of like, uh, plaque in your brain like amolid, uh, beta-amolid plaques, uh, Alzheimer's, uh, vaso, uh, endophilia-oprotection. Like this is the overall health longevity type of protein and it decreases with time. Obviously, um, this, when you take it exogenously, it actually is one of the only things that I know that up regulates the expression of the natural protein rather than like having a negative feedback loop. So, um, what something we're normally, normally when you add something in your natural production goes down. Right. This actually causes deep to increase natural. So it's like so if you test and then your balls get bigger. Yeah, or like, yeah, if my body doesn't recognize, yeah. So something we're working on, I can't, I can't get into the details. All I can say is that we have a patent on a specific delivery system to this because there's a lot of people, other people are coming out with this stuff, uh, but they don't understand the how little you actually need to get results. Like, uh, like your body, I think max is out in like pico grams. Like that's how you measure the stuff, which is, I don't know if you know how small a pico grams. If a nano is 10, the negative nine, yeah, it's a nano is it's 10 to the negative nine pico is 10 to the negative 12. Okay. So, so it's a 2,000 7 nano is that would a pico? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's three or two metric kids. The metric system. Yeah, it's all based on the king's thumb. So the there's like, I already saw companies that are, they're selling, are there about to release this 10 milligrams of just the actual clothe protein, right? And let's go lifetime supply. But the problem is this will be one. It's way way too high. Two, it'll be gone in five hours because it literally your body's going to use it up and it's going to so much that it's, you're going to have like deleterious effects from taking it so much. And it's not, I don't know. I have to see like like the it's not easy protein to make. But I will say that the patent inversion that we have is something like that works selling in the microgram dose. And it is a twice once every two weeks shot. Okay. So this is going to be something that is in my opinion, so I got samples of this. And I would have taken it, but my father has chronic kidney diseases. Is kidneys are only working at like around 50%. Okay. Well, I gave him my 12 weeks of fly because I have his before blowwork. I want to see what does the M. E. S. 74, you know, every a couple of us at the company got samples. I know I chose to, you know, give it to him because I'd rather see what it does in someone who actually has issues because this is meant to do. So I'm actually I'm excited to see like the data. He's only taken the one shot. So and it's every two weeks that he takes this. So, um, a sense of I'm going to wait for this whole 12 week to get his blood work done and see what happens. But that's something I would look into in the next coming months that people are going to start producing. Just remember that it's going to be most people are going to have an expensive and they're not going to have the right dosing and they're definitely not going to have the patent that we have because our patents belongs to the guy who's making it. So yeah, I'll I'll I'll keep you guys up to date when when that stuff's coming on for sure. I've got another hot one on my list that I don't hear many people talk about, but I went down a few rabbit holes and I actually bought some and I have it my fridge. But I'm okay. I don't know, Shai wait and see if the research paper comes out about this or something. I got a couple to bring up right here. You're here. You're the research paper. So okay. What is going on with a pithalon or a pit halon or whatever you call it? The telemere one. Do you know about this telemere? Yeah, you long gator. Yeah, I think I said yeah a pithalon EPITALON. Yeah, some people still have a pithalon. Yeah, whatever. Yeah, I think that if it's going to have a very good effect on longevity. If you're just looking for, so it does what it says on the tin, it helps with health care. Yeah. And I think it also helps with like, it's called senesis when you get rid of like old cells that are dead, like kind of dead or you don't need them. I think it's called senesis. Basically, it's program death of cells that are not working anymore. I think it does that. I have not tried this personally, but I think it's definitely one of those compounds that if you're looking in the anti-aging longevity biohacking community. I think it's one of the ones that's worth trying for like you said for telemere length. And it's especially preventing shortening of telemere, but actually increasing length of telemere. Now, I was telling some of the other day we were talking about when we're going to die. You know, just typical to have to go on. What do you think? Yeah. Just just like, well, I already tried a Wednesday and it didn't take. That was no good. So yeah. But you know, we're talking about telemere extension. And for those of you that don't know, it's the, you know, the little caps on the end of the DNA strand, right? And, you know, you get a, if your telemere's get worn off or whatever, shorter shorter, you get bad photo copies of bad photo copies of bad photo copies. And you get older. Yeah. So essentially what aging is is your telemere's just not quite copying perfectly. At the time, right? Yeah. You're not replicating your DNA. Exactly. Yeah. So if a pitalon is supposed to stop that shortening of your telemere's or hinders. Yes. You know, yeah. Possibly even lengthen them. Is that even the hope or one day I there? I think so. Like I said, I haven't tried it. And I haven't dug into it yet. I mean, I'm I'm starting to think of aging now. So 44. I found a forum. It was a normal person forum, a normie forum. They didn't know it. They didn't know who was. Yeah. They didn't know who the Olympia was going to be this year. Yeah. Yeah. They don't know that Heidi got his visa. Yeah. Right. They don't not think of this world. And they were talking about life extension of their dogs through a pitalon. Oh, yeah. Working out body weight dosing based on what people were taking because I rich people are using this stuff. Yeah. No, they're like Hollywood people are using a pitalon and like it's yeah. So I'm you know, I'm just wondering if you know, is it going to be like kind of common go out to five years or is it going to be like, oh shit, this might be like my dogs 20 years old now. What's going on? Like I need that. I think I think I think I think that that is going to be an application. It's already an application as far as people using BPC and TB on their dogs for like healing and stuff like that. So I can't I can't see why people wouldn't do it on their dogs. I mean, you remember Christina, if that I always bring to the Olympia, right? So she's 12. So the 13 in January, I mean, she just had to check out everything's great. So she's I'm excited. But like I have no qualms like morally doing something like that to my dog if it's going to extend their life and make her healthy. So I think that the problem is like you said most people don't know how to convert doses. And so like there is you could Google a calculator to do it and it just it just has to do with your surface area and body weight and then what type of animal you are. And there's like a formula and it's not that hard, but you can convert it from a human dose to a or vice versa. Like when with like we talked about SLU, I took the mouse dose divided it by 12.3. Got the human dose and which turned out to be 4.06 milligrams per kilogram. So like you could figure it out. What did you divide it like 12.3? Because that's because it has to do with like I said surface area and body mass. So like the way the formula, the way that you that you convert things, the conversion factor in this case from rat from mice to a human is 12.3. If it's rat, it's actually 6.2. If it's dog, I don't know the exact number. But the numbers change whatever this is. Yeah, okay. So you can look up you mean like there's a, yeah there's a chart there. You can even get a calculator like it's not just lightweight. It's also surface area. Well, it's the surface area that gets you the per the milligram per kilo and then you get that and then you just multiply it by the kilo of the weight to get the dose. Okay. The funny thing about some drugs like people don't realize not everything is just pure body weight like Benadrill for example. If I take a Benadrill tab, I'll get tired and one out of a nap. But if you give Benadrill to your dog, you can give it like a half a tab. Yeah, sorry fine. And until we find, we're like that's almost a human dose. It's, I mean, what like the difference is, um, obviously we all have different ways of metabolites. Yeah, yeah, it's not the same. Yeah. Because I personally can't Benadrill doesn't do anything to me. I have extreme insomnia and like I went, I was, I had the same sleeping gap through now since 2018. And I take the strongest of the sleeping nets that they can prescribe and, uh, and they still, or I still have to alternate to sleep. Um, my ex could take one Benadrill and we used to call it Benadrill because she was just like, I think Benadrill get loopy and then pass out and I could take, I don't know, I think I've taken like six before and it didn't do anything to me. Oh, wow. I used to give Christina one, uh, before she would fly at first before she got flying. Um, and I've given her as much as two and she weighs 25 pounds. So that's not a whole lot, uh, to give her 50 milligrams of Benadrill. It's just the way they metabolize stuff. Yeah, it's interesting. Hey, I got a couple more to that. Oh, yeah, yeah, we'll make sure we bring up. What about, SS31, while we're, before I do far away from the mitochondrial stuff. And then I bet everybody at home wants to hear about all the GLP stuff that's happening because I feel like that's on the lads and that's a huge, you know, I think huge factor is to why, you know, everything's gotten so popular in the research space. But yeah, SS31, what do you think about that one? I think it's a great my conduit efficiency one. And I think you could, if you take that with SLU, I think it's a great combination. A lot of people that we deal with take those two in combination as far as, it gives it. Yes, what was it? 38 SS31 31 not to be confused with the SS from 1939 different. Clearly different things. Like, yeah, uniforms. You go Moss at his back. You go, right? Yeah, exactly. He peeked in the big of a, peeked in about 39, 40. Yeah. Yeah. There's a people missing this joke that hurts my feelings. I know the first Jan Fabrix were the best. Taylor actually real fabric. They were like a Chinese shit. But SS31 is great. I think that taking that with SLU is a great combination for mitochondrial function. I think SS31 is better than not see for mitochondrial efficiency. I don't know. I don't think it has like the neuro effect that we get. You talked about Scott. We get from Moss. He doesn't think it has that. I just think it's more of the efficiency of your mitochondrial producing more ATP and overall healthier versions of mitochondrial versus damage. Yeah. Yeah. It's just so what I had heard and that's what I'm doing now. Once I, you know, the last I think eight weeks or so I started combining the two. Yeah. So from what I understand there is supposed to be benefit for cleaning up ROS. Is that, do you know have you heard anything about that? I haven't done a deep, deep dive because I haven't taken it. I mean, there's so many things that I'm still learning in this in this space because it literally, it seems to me, literally feels like there's new stuff coming all the time and I've been focusing more on like special projects that like something that peaks my interest. Yeah. But the SS31's been around for a while or not a while. I mean, at least a year or so that people have been experimenting with. So I do, I do think it has that potential to help like what you're talking about is with protective like that's why people are stacking them together. Yeah. Yeah. I still think you need some type of like one of the projects I am currently working on is mitochondrial specifically targeted antioxidants and there's a few of them. Okay. So like I'm digging deep in like trying to source stuff, some of the stuff I can't source some of it. I can some of it. I might have to make because we actually have this lab, the other chemist I saw, has a lab in China. So I was we were literally just talking where we were meeting up in Vegas at the Olympia, which is when I'm going to get more of that cloak though for me to try and um and for me. And both like we're talking about when I can go to China to get into the lab and like you know that be wild here. But like I have to get a visa and you have to go to a Chinese embassy and there's only like there's one in DC LA in New York. I think it's it. You have physically go there and like so plus the fact that I hate flying and I just flew to London which is like an eight-hour flight and I flew to Australia, but right in like 20 to 40 years which was like 19 hours and I told my doctor I was like I need whatever it is I need more of it. And so like my doctor took a game. Gamey. Gamey was a prescription for some more like Xanix type molecules and so like I had to take that and um to sleep and I wanted to actually sleep in for a lot of the flight because I was so I get so claustrophobic on flying but um going to China to get this stuff done because like we have so many of the ideas and like some of them you know we just I know how to do it. I can't just go in my lab at school and they're like hey I'm gonna make this and then let me test it and that's what I'm like yeah they don't like that. No they they don't like you spending school funds on private projects apparently so but but like something I was trying to sort two things I'm trying to source one of them which has a cast number so I know they make it okay our source and guy couldn't find it I'm like we can make this like there's it's there somebody's got to be mass producing this stuff and the other one that was super expensive and it's a fucking like one or two step reaction that is a 93% yield I'm like dude this other chemist and I can do this over the weekend we're gonna we're gonna do this like I'm not waiting I'm not paying you know four dollars a gram for this stuff that is a one step fucking reaction to do that that if you took if you got if you were a chemistry major made into like order to lab you could probably make this molecule like that's how simple right that's why this is just like what one of the things we're working on is like these specifically targeted and it's out since for your mitochondria to protect them not just general antioxidants like we talked about like you don't fooler in and pomegranate shell like stuff that actually hits your mitochondria specifically. Have you and now in that realm with mitochondrial protection have you guys looked at all because I know it very little about it I have done a little bit of reading about carbon 60 c60 yeah fullerine yeah I don't know very much about that is that something you and this is just kind of now I'm asking just a personal question and I guess everybody else is interested too but yes that's something you would recommend yeah so like fullerine is the coolest thing about it or one of the coolest things about it is it has it could take on six free radicals with per one molecule so like vitamin C is one to one most of them are one to one like you have you give up one electron it pairs with the other and it gets rid of that free radical but like this can do six. Ah okay so that that's like the main benefit of it is that you're getting six free radicals per one molecule of carbon 60. Okay cool so that's why I like and the dose is in crazy like what I'm looking at is I mean higher than and so it is most people don't know it's a powder people think it's a liquid because it comes in like avocado oils or mct oil yeah I've got it in oil form I just grabbed it because I couldn't even remember what it was called I hadn't thought about it for like a month now so yeah but like the way they dilute it in order to get like the dose you need it's like almost a full bottle so like I just I just went with the powder I was like let's just get the 99% black charcoal looking powder and use that. Okay so that's where we're working on. I want to bring us around to the big one which is all the heat up heat stuff so we've got a ozampic we've got the what's the second one. Two zepr tied right upside and then of course reddit she's like three or whatever came in. Yeah so for our purposes ozampic and that trezeptide they're they're done. They're done. There's all the places there's no like they're out of the discussion for bodybuilding it's reddit reddit is that what's going on for bodybuilding yeah specifically like general public people obviously people are still using these a lot and but you could tell like the eels and big face and the sagging and the muscle was like everything I've ever seen is is close to 5050 muscle fat loss in the the glp ones of ozampic is that just because the appetite suppression is so severe that they lose muscles it's it actually like kind of ball it's I think it's a combination of one you're not eating two you're not eating protein three you're not lifting weights yeah right so your muscles aren't doing anything you're gonna burn muscle before you burn fat anyways but the other thing people don't talk about is it slows motility right that's what kind of makes you not hungry yeah what happens when you have a steak that is now sitting in stomach acid and not getting the protein get further destroyed and what's what else what else is in steak fat bacteria iron okay yeah so you're talking about like rotting meat which has metals in it rather like iron and and other things are eating have heavy metals and it's just sitting in your stomach not getting broken down and so it's either getting to your you know digestive tract where things can just leak out because it's not being broken down and you're not expelling it in any way or it's you know releasing toxins that are going to your liver and kidneys and all he seems to like you got to put in your gut because it's slow down yeah exactly and so like I don't think I think that is more unhealthy than losing muscle I mean I'd rather lose some muscle than have they're just sitting in need for two or three days because you know I hear lots of constipation issues with these drugs because you're slowing down the till movement of them so I don't know there's nothing for me so like that turns every time I just posted yesterday that they were big farmers plan to like stop the muscle wasting was to add a milestone in the other but they just got canceled before they even started so like there was two different ones one was to turn that to hide and but they were using two different miles to add in the rivers right but you don't want to inhibit miles that you want to lower you don't want to hit it and you don't want to inhibit active in which is like the protein that has all of the major side effects of inhibiting miles that and so after spending $1.9 billion to acquire this drug they shut down the trial like this week or last week so like their answer to muscle loss was not exercising and or was to let's add another drug which by the way is an intravenous injection it's not in my amours and I'll say so imagine you have to go to the doctor's office and lie in injection they're like let's fucking pin you in your vein with a miles that inhibitor that causing issues like they're just adding you're adding a problem to another problem to like another problem that's an option so like with the thing with red apparently and I'll give you my experience in a second lots of people love this stuff um it to advertise a present is not as pronounced and then obviously we're talking about hitting three different receptors instead of just the one or the two and so increasing your metabolism is one controlling blood glucose levels is another so you do see a lot of body composition stuff and you don't see a lot of the muscle wasting effects from compared to it and obviously even in the fitness world you're also working out and taking things that prevent muscle loss anyways so I know a lot of competitors that use it now after like three years of people talking about this I got some stuff to try and the study dose the lowest study dose is 2.5 milligrams a week right and they go all the way up to 12 I talked to somebody voters and they're like you know we take small doses twice a week three times a week whatever right so and then okay let me start at 200 micrograms which you know you know the thing which is literally orders of magnitude lower than the study dose I took that on Sunday by Tuesday I was just felt full really I there isn't adjustment period from from my understanding there's an adjustment period to all these GLP1 but yeah I already have problems getting full easily my appetite is completely dependent on if I'm working out or not and sometimes I can eat a lot of food and sometimes I cannot and I just noticed that every time I was eating I would have to eat less and less food and I was still feeling uncomfortable so like then like so that's Sunday Tuesday comes around I took another 200 micrograms so not 400 micrograms like keep in mind 2.5 milligrams low doses study the next day was terrible I was like wow I'm like I am like this close away from stopping my whole goal was to see is this can this be used as a nutrient partitioning agent at low low doses yeah this wasn't to let leaner yeah this wasn't for me yeah this wasn't a weight loss thing like I'm by no means in my fat but I know means I'm not like diced but I'm not like I'm not a fat and I'm not trying to you know lose weight I'm trying to see if I can get nutrients into my body like a fish a partitions into my body right and then so after all these things I was like okay let me cut the dosed in half and so I took on third Friday 100 micrograms okay and then that night I just felt like shit I'm like okay I'm going to the Olympia in like I actually am going early I think I get flight I think I get better like the fifth and I'm staying I think took the 14th because we're doing a lot of filming for the stocky mentoring on peptides actually for the peptides society which is okay so I'm just like I'm not dealing with this in Vegas that is not the time where I want to feel distended and full someone take you to a nice steak house and you're like yeah this have a day yeah exactly like I just don't want to feel away so I stopped I stopped that experiment it's on pause right now because I I just I can't after feeling the way did I don't even want to touch this stuff I really want to see how well it works because everybody is loving it everybody do they ever talk to you it's like this is amazing stuff it's for me I did the good same thing yeah really I did everything oh you can tell these doses I threw it away because went on a trip with some friends he made the best primary but I've ever had my life and I got down like four ounces oh and I was like and you were doing this same thing like micrograms microdust microdust I was doing three a week I was at 250 and I also took me and I'm curious about this with you it took like a week or more for it to come back to where I could just eat normal like I'd have eight ounces of ground beef and 200 grams of rice and stop halfway through I can't eat it oh I'm not I'm not back I'm not back I literally what today's Monday I took my last shot Friday yeah so I think you can see it'll be about a week it was like it was a little over a week before I could eat food again I'm like I don't know how you guys are doing this and I mean I'm retired I eat four meals a day in a bar I couldn't do it I would consider you guys rare I started the same way and I think I started with 250 and 250 micrograms and I was like I'm just gonna try to number one spend as little money as possible right like get the most out of the least and I got nothing from it so I bumped it up bumped it up I'm doing close to two like it's basically two milligrams every eight days so I do a milligrams twice a week and like I'm golden and I'm one of those guys too like I'm the first person that's ready to stop eating my appetite goes away super so I was super worried about that I have seen it with a client of mine that I had similar issues like appetite just got zapped even on a micro dose so you guys are out there I don't know what it is right I've got some in my fridge and I'm like I already only eat four meals a day you're gonna be down this side I just wanted to try it you know like you know I'll contest people asking about it you know and you know that's why did I just wanted to be able to talk to my client I like first that hand like knowledge like reading something's one thing but experiences another and I was like I don't know I'm on the other under the spectrum I'm I'm warning yeah I can't have that I need you to gain weight like you do whatever you're with me I know well I'm white this morning does yeah yeah I just I I did exact same reason I try like I always will try something every eating I think discover and like from supplements whatever I'm like if I think this is cool like I'm gonna try it so that I know what it feels like and I can give my story of okay this is what the study said this is my experience with it so yeah from yours you know science background looking at what you see the real evidence for what is your Wolverine stack it's BPC with TB with everyone says I've had people recommend the copper the GPU to me for the Wolverine stack yeah what else would you say or would you say it's not as important if it's just injury recovery like I it definitely can't hurt as far as I it's college and two right the skin yeah yeah there's also we have a product called cardalax or cardamax sorry and it's an increasing cardalage producing so that's another one that that I would look into as far as like the Wolverine stack I mean it's so funny they that they use that and they're not getting like marvel letters suing them yeah yeah I mean I'm assuming they have lawyers everywhere yeah Disney so well it's not like they tried to use the kiss logo I mean no one will come after you like kiss oh yeah I do I think that the when I first heard then I thought it was funny and then my brain immediately went to okay these are peptides that you have to take all the time and they're working can you use something like an adenoviral vector and these compounds to infect yourselves to like epigenetically change your healing abilities and I was like that would be a cool thing to try it's in town epigenetic I think that would be like a real Wolverine type thing I don't know I don't know genetics like i'm not geneticist i don't claim to be one but I think it would be cool because if you remember like the the original milestone hit it like the ace 08 3 I think it was like from way back in like we're talking about it almost 10 years ago maybe the reason that one worked was because it was a viral vector injection right so it actually it devires infected yourselves and decrease the expression of milestone so that's why it actually did work in the in the human trial so like out my my theory was like okay if you're taking something your body's going to try to bring it down if you get your cells infected with something that is deep down regulating expression look what now who knows maybe something cool could happen maybe could become Wolverine maybe if we had intimate adenovative you need to survive the transformation I don't know that's just like where my mind goes when I hear these things but like yeah the I think the the TV and the BBC for sure are so it must so in other words taking the taking the compound is cool but I bet even cooler for your cells just made it yeah I mean the cells do make this stuff like what would but like if you can get them to like fully express it just cringy I think that would be even cooler but would you include anything else honorable mention just obviously what about just the straight HGH on top of that yeah I would think some of the like you I mean besides HHH but even like like the epimoralan or the some small islands CJC I think any of the the secret of thoughts would be worth adding into as well you're not going to go wrong by adding a a he a growth factor in there to help healing right what what doses do you think are actually recommended for BPC and TB 500 a standard sort of generic one that everyone does is that you know two grams of TB twice a week and 500 to a thousand BPC a day but then you hear these guys with big injuries or like I cranked you know bottle of each yeah two days for you know or whatever I'm here in that now too I'm here in 10 milligrams a day stuff like that guys you see you know like what I don't think you're be doing I don't think your body can like take that bowl of some out I don't like maybe if you're doing 10 milligrams a day split up into like four or five doses means like that but not a bowl is one shot of 10 I can't see that happening I'll I'd spoke to you guys know Dom Zuka the coach so you we last night we did a live with him and and he was told us about his injury and what he was doing with his healing stack was you know splitting up those higher doses into three different like first thing in the morning afternoon and before bed type of thing okay so if like you said the standard TB is usually like twice a week you could probably go to like two and a million grams twice a week you could probably do five milligrams twice a week I can't see I can't see a a deleterious effect of that your body might not use it all so who knows but like I said I think splitting them up would be way more effective than a bowl of toast and how should people think of because you know like every time I read a description or you know I'm reading about BPC and it's like the the full explanation of what it does how would you layman term one sentence to a body builder what BPC versus TB 500 what what would you class like tell us your classifications and their jobs BPC increases angio genesis which is the increase of red not red blood cells red blood vessels sorry red blood that love that's right capillary relation right yeah right yeah so like the difference between actually making that versus TB which I think is just accelerating the healing process but it's not actually doing the angio genesis part of it you're not making the blood vessels I think there's just like a synergistic effect run not a hundred percent sure on like why the TV 500 mechanism is like I think it's more of the what he calls like it does help with like blood vessels but like if it gets more of the anti anti what he calls anti inflammatory right it's not happened in the most in beta 4 whatever right like I don't yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I think it's more about the anti and inflammatory properties with that right yeah the increasing of like blood that does both but I think BPC is more common for that right and and like you said the most people the thousand to like or sorry the 500 to a thousand microgram is a great starting dose I think if you actually have like a true injury you could probably bump those doses up but again I would recommend splitting them down instead of just taking one giant dose I think that's just that would be a waste yeah I've seen that what about the you know I've seen studies where they drank it drank BPC and it got through the astros system and yeah and also like the whole idea everyone's saying you got a locally inject this stuff I just don't believe that it doesn't make any sense to me it's it's it's systemic to so like the oral biovillability like a general group rule well here's the here's the general rule thumb like eight or less amino acids is usually okay to get in your system oh BPC is five right I never heard so for so the short change more likely shorter check yeah I mean you have certain transporters for like you know like like Lucy and Lucy in the die peptide that like and and B makes right there's a transporter for like die peptides and tripeptides so I think the actual hydrolysis is the bigger molecules they're the ones that get broken down way more easily than the shorter chain ones so like from what I understand eight or less is kind of where we want for something and not to mention that BPC is one made in your gastric tripe 2 was made for gut health wasn't really made for like healing but I I take it every day for the stomach issues because of I've had like GI issues for a long time and I think it's helping me along with um there's another research compound like always blank on the name it's like La Raza Tide I believe you guys heard of La Raza Tide yeah yes it's a it's another small molecule class but it's it's uh been researched as like helping with celiac right yeah because I know the BPC guys are doing for Crohn's and Colitis or yeah exactly so this is a small molecule that they've researched for like celiacs and I think I think that because gluten is not just in wheat right gluten is a class of proteins that's in lots of stuff rice you know so gluten is like not just in wheat it is a protein that can be found in a bunch of things I think that when I took my allergy test for gluten was not correct so I think I might have some type of gluten in in Tolens out I didn't test positive for celiac but since I started taking this product until the reddit trial my stomach has been a lot better and then I started taking reddit and I'm like okay this is never this is the worst decision that I could in a long time for my stomach so um this uh these these these these new small molecules are I look very promising as far as for like people who have celiacs and are looking for because like instead of paying all the money for like gluten food which gluten sorry gluten free food which I don't know like I'm not a huge fan of like making food in a lab I don't know you know how you're like these like the we were in London and there was a steak sandwich place that had a 3d printed steak which I saw purely like vegetarian I'm like what do you what is this being made out of that year but it was what it was vegetarian it wasn't synthetic beef no no no that's something different and I have bigger issues I have issues with that as well like what like yes you can like we all know we can make proteins and labs and and we can grow organs and stuff like that we know we've I would have that technology why do we need to make artificial me I just I don't I don't know the process yet so I have to dig deeper into it but I don't think that I can't imagine that is as good for you I don't I don't unless it's completely bioregentable which it could be I don't know I just can't imagine that it can be you know as healthy as eating a natural source of food I just can't see that yeah but yeah looking to the I think it's called Lauraz at time I think I I would look into those compounds for like stomach issues and and KPV is another one which works really well for stomach oh okay so these are all just the initials of amino acids like that so like K is lysine V is of valine P is proline so that's how they come up with these names like GHK you know it's just like the names of the single amino acids and the C was obviously covered that well if you would know but keep it simple yeah because like so BBC is not BBC is actually us approaching that it was named after but a lot of the peptides are just the amino acid the one letter amino acid nickname it's so like so self explanatory yeah hilarious and then is the number like the number of amino's in the chain it's like that simple like K and I like for just sometimes like like for like BBC one five seven no because it's a specific thing but like when you talk we talk about HH frag which was specifically listed what was at one seven yeah it was like to one 91 it was like 18 I mean I had something like that it was a very end of the chain yeah but so some of them can be name like that but that's how these are and then like we talk about C U is for copper so like there are people that don't know that and then that blows my mind too which obviously is you know it's not English it comes from like Kubrick which is you know Latin but I mean it's still copper like it's on the periodic table like I don't know copper is something that's so common I would think people could figure out C U is copper but again nope I didn't know I'd have assumed anyone knew that because I just don't have faith in it don't have faith yeah I mean I thought the the education system in Canada is better than at least you go to the metric system. I don't know about that right now that's the questionable stuff so what where is this all going what do you see like 10 years from now because I I remember I often think about this I had an old bodybuilding friend and he said he said yeah he said you're lucky you got the best era when bodybuilding was special and there will come a day when it's not special at all and I went what do you mean and he goes the drugs you take have dangers and side effects and eventually they'll get drugs that just make everyone healthier and then they'll be no risk and then you can take as much as you want and then body buildings not cool anymore because it's over with and everyone can look however they want and everyone can get ripped and everyone can get bigger and I was like oh fuck that's my day. Yeah I think I mean we've seen it already in like LA right with actors doing these crazy transformations and staying on like growth hormone and going to these anti-aging clinics and you know you guys like Tom Cruise is a 60 or something. Yes you see him sprint he sprints like a 26 year old man. I just heard this story on a podcast that when he was doing his stunt training for like one of the new mission possible he's like I guess hanging on a building. He does all of that. Yeah so instead of like getting off the building between takes he trained his forearms by doing pull-ups so that he would have the strength I'll just stay on the building during takes and so like he has a gymnast house and someone comes over and they start talking he's like he's the key to 80 pull-ups. He's 60 years old and he granted he's like a shorter guy but 80 pull-ups can you do 80 that's wild. I'm sorry. Yeah so I mean and then you you see like transformations like Chris Hemsworth right like yeah. If that guy did not juice like I I don't even I can't I'm not gonna call bullshit but I had I mean he was a skinny your guy super lean but like a skinny your guy and to get jack to play Thor you know like the way he did and look as good as he did he just doesn't look it doesn't look natural I mean I just think that I heard a tell the story too. He did look I mean dude I remember when it thought come out like 2012 11 10 some like yeah but I remember it was like right when I got into grad school and I was like it was like inspiring to go to the gym I was like dude Thor's jack I want Jack like Thor. Just because I mean so I think with sense of your question we have all this stuff like already in the works for like anti-aging and things like that and then now if you're talking about people trying to break that you know that magical 300 pound marker whatever the the milestone angle right now with what's going on isn't the way but we may or may not have something in the works that is something patented that can increase fallestatin which in a controlled way to reduce miles that and so like there's there are ways to do this without messing with active and so like that's something that is interesting to me right if the the data that I've seen so far in the in the mice is really really good and the guy who I talked to about this is taking it um let's just say he's old he's old enough to be my dad and he gained like four and a half kilos in like a month or something crazy nice so like right so like this thing works so so what I'm doing is I'm getting an Eliza miles statin test done to see what my baseline is because I'm right and that's not an easy test to just go to the doctor you have to like ask yet this boy right so I think it has done and then I have some samples of this stuff may or may not have some samples of this stuff and we're going to see what happens I think I think that and then you know the the days of making steroids are over I mean like we've kind of come across everything you're going to come across yeah they're not there's not going to be any new molecules in that there's no energy being put into creating those right you know I think completely moved elsewhere right like and then even sarms are like a dying thing they they have it made a sarm that really works and and sarms are are having all types of issues with you know LDL the same issues that testosterone's having which we know we have 20 years studies on testosterone we have we have what a few years studies on sarm 10 years they've been around maybe or whatever yeah so I don't think that's the route it's got to be in the other hormones that build muscle that's the only other thing I can think of as far as like you know we talked about like a real miles statin blocker or decreasing the expression of is one way and then everything else I just don't see a new brand new molecule coming out that's going to change a physique forever like you know they like we talked about redda and body building helping dieting make me easier and things like that if you're you know can here appetite suppressants you're not eating as much and you're it's affecting like the way you're about using insulin and all these things but like I don't think there's going to be some magic compound that comes on anytime soon to to just make you a freak of nature like you know like a running Coleman type physique right just born that way and yeah stuff I just can't see it right now I'm sort of thinking I'm sort of thinking along the lines of like a lot more people looking like huge acumen or Chris Helmsworth like oh you're just being way more attainable like I'm on this redda and I'm on this this one peptide that does this you know grow it yeah yeah put on 20 pounds of muscle I mean great you know we talked about we talked about we talked about when we you know the late 2000s when peptides were first coming about to now where peptide is like a household and there's so many companies that sell peptides so they're very very easily accessible yeah until like these Trump tariffs with China happened that's right now slowing everything down things are still pretty relatively available and you know you could go on almost any site and if you trust them and you ask to see like their third party testing and not look at it whatever and they have valid stuff they're accessible you don't have to you don't have to go to a clinic but they're seen a lot of these clinics open that are willing to like prescribe certain seasoning certain peptides to help as long as well as growth and teeth and G8 oh it's sorry growth and testosterone and things like of that nature so and then of course the other longevity stuff that we talked about earlier so you know walk people what like you said walking around looking like like lean all the time because they're on these peptides and the cost is not crazy yeah it's not absurd to get like um not like okay that's I think that's a way worse way to get lean than a problem on peptide it doesn't have sleep yeah and nobody probably is a good opportunity for us and that would be a big big big big big study readovers well I think there's lots of entertaining girls that have been dabbling in that you know um I just uh God you made me just lose my oh um people walk skinny girls like cane it's like like fit girls who put cane but I actually have an even I haven't touched coge in like 20 something years I like that is not my thing anymore it's not good anymore well it's not the next you know yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah but um no but I think I think to your point with how easily accessible peptides are the more and more knowledge that people are runs still crack it up the more and more people that are putting out information about peptides and studies and things like that you know people like Jay Campbell who's you know written books about this stuff you got to speak of this conference multiple conferences you know um our company putting out information constantly about how they're just making people more aware I think that you are gonna see people and they're not necessarily juiced up they're just on these peptides and maybe TRT and they look great and and I think that it's it's like you said it's gonna happen you're gonna see a leaner version of you know America I would say if people really want it's like people can afford it and they they have the desire to do it it's gonna happen it's not just maybe the elite I made a prediction that reddit or maybe the gen 4 or whatever the next one is biobluitid is the gen 4 is the coral every year just got to broke the broken for everyone so that these these these things I I said you know what I think is gonna be the what's noticeable to us is a lot more people in great condition at level one sure yeah um because the main barrier I know a lot of people like there's different people that have a hard time dieting but if I look at all the people I've trained that had a hard time getting shredded they all had a hard time dieting yep and that was the one thing I was good at right at a hard time dieting like you could rise above right that's how it was done if you wanted to get healed you had to be better at dieting then they did and yeah and that just suffer through those you weren't eating the peanut butter cookies at 12 and night or snap and then having an eye went to fuck I stopped and had a burger yesterday but in back on track there's a lot of people that that train and do bodybuilding shows it have a really tough time dieting and man appetite shut off keramol food shut off don't give a fuck I can't imagine what they will do to the average level one show I think it's gonna be visual yeah exactly and then not to mention with like the amounts of gear that I hear people taking now yeah I know and I just it's just astronomical compared to like what you know I did at a level one show or like what the animal person is it's like it's insane amounts of gear for like young what's on my young young kids we're talking like 20 something else and like not experience violence like people just experimenting for the first time with these drugs and they're like you know son or no guys is 500 milligrams like what are you doing right except the way too affordable man well the problem is now is is you're you're only considered honest if you if your doses tell people about our ridiculous so there is that you know like because they can't you people can't fathom the fact that they're just genetically not as priesthood predisposed to put it on muscle mass so it makes them more comfortable to just assume that Ronnie Coleman was on eight grams of everything all the time they don't they can't accept that he's just genetically better than them you know what I mean because yeah we all get this I mean clients send in their cycles and I'm like you're 182 pounds in the offseason and this is more than I've ever taken my entire career yeah people write shit on our you know we had Jay on the show and Jay was telling this you all you know we rolled that one video about he's like yeah you know like in this video here this is like all that video I mean I don't have any drugs on my system here I'm just like you know I'm on a break fucking liar liar pants on fire fucking 30 comments all like more than 30 there's the oh god 30 yeah that one went viral in a bad way like this look blue shit I will tell you guys because I I had the same experience with Jay I've told this on the show before but I know you're gonna kick out this he came to my store and it was three weeks out from the US's and I had him with the store and he was like 282 85 and he was big and he said yeah I've been off for a while now I'm actually when I get home tomorrow I'm starting my limpia prep and in my head even as someone that's in the game I was like this guy's so full of shit like I mean he is a monster and yeah so he left and then I went to the USA's in Vegas I saw him in the lobby and he was in a tank top and this is weeks later three weeks later three weeks later three weeks later three weeks later not even quite three weeks and he was insane and I walked around and said what do you wait today and he goes three 15 and I immediately went oh god he was clean he wasn't lying I mean yeah I'm 285 to three 15 and three weeks and that's one of my mind understood there's different levels to this game yeah and he's one of those guys that eats a thousand grams of carbs a day and this can process it like that's insane to me I would be like a fat pig if that's about 30 years ago that's about prep a thousand grams of carbs and he's dieting yeah that's just insane just how people are underestimating under estimate genetics like like to your point but if that's probably the future if we really can change your genetics like with CRISPR that's where I should have went CRISPR if we can like really get this CRISPR technology which we have I mean they've already done things with we're cut out the genes where you can't just give people a little 10 second what's a CRISPR just CRISPR is just a gene editing tool right so he can cut out parts of your genetics that express certain things so like if you can use CRISPR to you know take out a gene that causes you to release a lot in son or it causes you to you know store because you store fat because you have more of this or Grayland makes you hungry or whatever the thing is if you can really alter some of genetics to have like a super baby you know how people want these like super athlete kind kids and then CRISPR would be the way of this if that ever becomes like super affordable and and we and they nail it down you're just gonna see everyone walking around the ads all the time and just jacked. I remember being blown away by I was watching this program it's like a nature program and the guy was standing in this giant warehouse like think of the end of Raiders of the lost arc right when that's that box that box in that giant warehouse he was standing in like that size room of just filing cabinets and there to the roof it was like something you'd see in an x files and he's like I'm in the United States Hall of Records or something it was like crazy and he was this is where we're at with gene editing and he grabbed the ladder you know the rolling ladder that goes up and he climbed up and he opened a drawer and he pulled out a file and he's in like a room of 100 like a million files right and then he puts another file and he goes that's what we're doing now he closed the drawer so we're taking out a gene and putting in a new gene so what we can do now is we can take a peg we can remove the hemoglobin gene put in a human hemoglobin gene close a drawer that peg makes human hemoglobin now that we can take out and put in a human in an emergency. That's why and you're like shit and this was like you this is like ages ago. Yeah I'm not like 20 years ago so can't imagine what we're on the verge of with CRISPR but I think the affordability of it is probably constantly going on. It's going on. It's going on. Yeah you can from my understanding you can delete pretty much we know the human genome so like you can delete pretty much any part of it that you want to create a color couldn't you yeah the date from what I heard is like the super baby thing is like you can you want to baby with blue eyes and this color air and this these features or whatever you can do all this shit like that's crazy so like it's all just it'll come down to money but if this if one of the problems it always comes down to money if but if CRISPR becomes you know accessible to everyone and just like you know people can buy the technology and do it like I don't want to say in that home type of kit but something along the market or like we go to Turkey for it. Yeah you're a hair transplant. You can be the also the gene CRISPR stuff. Yeah exactly. Yeah so like if that ever becomes a thing that would revolutionize like the human race probably as far as like well I think it's splinter into the the haves and havenots would be very apparent. Oh yes the rich kids rich kids are winning all the metals getting all the scholarships out you know what I mean like there is no need for the inferior now. No it's right yeah or we just do robots and it work at all yeah. That's the other it's the other thing. Well the future is crazy man. Yes there's a lot of things that are crazy right now going on the world but whatever I'm happy or that that where I am right now I'm very happy that we did this podcast together and got to catch up. I'll see you guys at the Olympia right. Yeah I'm very very very happy to have you on we went way longer than we ever intended like we lied to you. Oh yeah on how long this would take. I kept coming around to I came in to try and let him go and then you'd be like so then we got this you know or we could just do this and I know. I have some I have a crazy idea and like I can't sure. Yeah. I was about to let you go but like I have this super thing that nobody's talking about that I want I can't even post out because I want to be first to market to it. Okay and like I am so excited for this this product as far as like the the strongest of the fat burners that there will be and it's like they're the top of my list right now it's in the top three of things I want to develop and like I said if I get to go to Wuhan hopefully soon I got to get a new one. Oh all cities. Oh I didn't I didn't pick all the cities in China. What were you going on? What do you think for us? That's Rolab's Rolab's R. Yeah. Hello careful. I didn't take the lab but this is where our our chemists has all the things around. It's easy. It'll be fun. Yeah. You'll have a blast. I've been I've been to Shanghai China's unbelievable. I highly recommend everybody visit it. You can't explain it. If I can make the flight and survive it go there the top of my list is this thing and to get it out to market I think this would be a game changer. I think in injectable SOU is going to be a game changer that I'm working on. Just so many things that are like they're now possible that I can actually do instead of trying to find some natural source or something. That's what I'm really got. That's what I'm lab. That's what I'm less like super excited about is like I can source things. Now I could make stuff now which is really cool. And then so I don't know. That's what I'm most excited about. I went from loving chemistry to learning about how steroids and stuff worked to work about. Supplements work to finding natural things to getting into research stuff and now like okay I can do this too now. I have the chemistry skills I have the knowledge of like and I'm not trying to brag. I'm just saying I went to school for this. I if I want to try synthesizing something that's in a paper or synthesize it or change a derivative of ties that are something. Why not? That could be fun. That could be fun. Yeah. I'll leave. Before me let you go I'll tell you there's one more thing you need to add your list. You're going to fat burner. You're doing the myel stat and alternate route. You need to come up with something that's going to make me better at guitar. Okay. You want peptide. There's going to be a neurofinger boiling. What do we uh we'll figure it out? Who do we need Steve Vise? Genetics and Chris Kramal though. Anybody's Genetics is a little DNA sample throughout in the CRISPR. Yeah. That and then uh maybe my fingers will get longer in skinnier. There you go. Or um my personal favorite would be the Jurassic world. I mean if I could if we can make a dinosaur that would be so fun. That is a type dream that you know I'll never see in a life but that would be so fucking cool. Yeah. Who is my hand going over there and move on? Yeah. Yeah. I don't think that's coming out of the back. That's fun. Well thanks man. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I was excited because I had a lot of questions. I mean peptide stuff. It's a lot for people to take in. There's a lot of them. Yeah. I mean and those are just peptides. There's like tons of small molecules too that can't even tell what. So like this whole world like you said it's just it's becoming household name pept the word peptide. Yeah. Like you said of the normies whatever you call it. They know it. Yeah. I'm interested. I'm interested in how anytime anything came out before it was oh that's unnatural. I won't tell you. I'm not. I was like, I was bald. Yeah. I told her. But now like these regular people they want to take everything they get their hands on. Yeah. Yeah. It's really interesting. Yeah. It's like I said it's some of the peptides because they are naturally some of them are naturally occurring and stuff like that. You really are just signaling your body to make more of something or less of that. I mean, fuck insulin is a peptide growth. I'm on the peptide. You know, like these are all natural things. Every enzyme in your body is a protein which is a peptide that takes a shape, right? So but yeah, as far as them being synthetic. Yes. They are synthetic we made. So you're not like deriving this peptide from a plant or something. Yeah. Yeah. Well, thanks man. We appreciate you. Of course. Of course, everybody remember like share subscribe comment and ring the bell. And remember I am mutant.com get your hardcore ISO get your mind FK and everyone should get on the gear. I am mutant.com big Ron and dustier your codes come see us at the Olympia. We're going to be at the booth hanging out Brian. Are you at a booth or are you just like working your busy the whole weekend? We're we're walking around. We're doing a like a talk. We're doing stocking. We're going to have hides lots of filming and stuff like that. So we'll definitely we'll definitely be at the Expo for sure. Scott's going to be at the booth too. He's going to come and ask us and have a good time. So it'd be great. We're not podcasting or nothing but we're going to have some fun. Yeah, I'm in for sure. I'll definitely say I haven't been to Olympia in a few years now. Oh, okay. Before it before it actually went to Florida for the during COVID, I don't think I've gone I went to the Arnold after that, but I haven't been to the Olympia. Are you going to bring Christina? I can't because I'm going to be there for this filming thing and there's this schedule. We don't I don't have a schedule yet. And then if we're going out in Vegas at night, I can't just leave her in like the hotel by itself. Yeah. No, no, no, no. So that's it. If it were just me, you know, like of course, I would bring her like grandma's house where did she go? Yeah, her and my other two dogs. They all go to a grandma and grandpa's house in the chat in Huga. So yeah, they they they watch them when I went to London, but they they have a yard that's awesome. They love it. They run around. So they're they have fun. Okay. So yeah, no Christina this year, but there's a full dog crew for this episode. Thanks again, the gorilla chemist, you know, gorilla chemist Brian Moscow with a K the coolest way to spell Moscow. And yeah, the Russia C is an S sound. Yeah. Yeah. If you remember those old Russian sustenance. Right. Oh, yeah. The Saito 250's. I don't know if that's how it was said, but what you said on the back was C Y T H O H. Yeah. They weren't H's, but yeah, they weren't H's. What are they? The Russian The aircolic letter. It's there's it. Yeah, they're all Russian. Because I call them Saito's. That was my nickname. The Saito's. Hey, you got those Saito pop ups. I just have lots of Saito's. Yeah, because yeah, so that that's like if you Moscow Moscow in Russian, he's probably with the K because the C is obviously an S. So like that's where that comes from. Okay. Okay. Okay. Thanks, buddy. Good to have you on. We always get smarter when you're on as opposed to when it's just us. I sometimes feel it does even the other, I don't know. So thanks, buddy. Thanks for your buddy and remember it's just bodybuilding. Yeah. Wanted to like new finish one, but the road one went super cool. I like personally dig the road worn like the relic look because it's supposed to be like a 66, you know. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. I get both sides of the coin, you know, something that looks brand new is is cool. Yeah, my Mustang is cool. Looks better finished. What what's your Mustang look? What color is your Mustang? Oh, it's the Sky's thing. It's holy of this guy's thing. Oh, yeah, hold on. You got the cherry, the cherry pick guard on it. Just like Colbaine had to. Oh, yeah. Obviously. Row, you're talking about my idols in 12 years old. Yeah, you got a humbucker in there too. Oh, you got it. Yeah, you got the sky's from the innuterotour. Yeah. And then, you know, so those are, so just for let's give Dusty and Scott, hold that for a sec. Let's give Dusty and Scott just a little less in here. So this is Kurt Cobain's most famous guitar. He had this weird fucking used Jaguar that was all modded up and fucked up. He bought it off. Used Martin Jenner apparently was a guy from the Christian rock band. And they think it belonged to the guitar player from the Beverly Brothers. Really? I didn't know that. Yeah. Well, the other stuff. I, it came. He bought it. Use. Oh, yeah. I know. So like all this stuff is modded. Yeah, it's all modded and rewired. And yeah, so they did the Cobain issue, the one on the wall there. They did the guitar. The way Kurt had it wired. Like the switches do things that are he just wanted it switched. Yeah, and the neck too. It's got this, you know, got a strattinac on it. Yeah, it's a really like it's a Frankenstein guitar. It is. And I actually it's one of my favorites. It's heavier. This one is a lot lighter. Yeah. Okay. If you see it's got like the huge headstock. Yeah. The other one. So my SG, the SG is way lighter than the, then the, the Jaguar. Oh, yeah. The Jaguar pound. Yeah. I like it personally. Um, but again, this is super light. Like if you're just trying to hang rocks swing around. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So Cobain, this was his never mind tour guitar. So if you see any footage from the never mind tour, which was like, you know, the big blow up era, he's playing this Jaguar. Oh, lots is more this one. Yeah. That's, that's, that's what he recorded. The album Nevermind with is that one with that. Wow. That sticker on there is like that's the sticker card had. There's a guy that reproduces them. Nice. Yeah. And remember that sticker. And that stratt, that stratt actually did get smashed and this one. Yeah. This one that destroyed twice. Yeah. The one new nexano. Yeah. So like the, the Fernanda's neck was the last one, but this one, you know, actually like a stratt. So I made this a project. I tried to do it as close as possible. It looks like it from what I ran there. I didn't see it in a while. Oh, it's awesome. It looks, it looks great. Your guitar's look awesome. And then the blue one was the skystang that was Cobain's favorite guitar on the Inuterotour, which is last year. Right. Oh, you got a ball dude. Yeah. So that's so the unique thing about that is you've got, that's a right handed guitar that Kurt flipped over and reached strong. So that's why you've got a that way with the pick guard on top because it's fucked up because Kurt was also like a fucked up. Yeah. So this is not a Martin. This is a Sigma. So you just made it look like yeah. But it's a, it's a 79 sigma. It's not a new one. Yeah. And these are actual vintage pickups. This is actually the vintage Barley. It looks perfect, dude. Dude. I, I think it's as close as you can get to a, a lefty one that I've ever seen anyone do. And it sounds fucking like amazing. Yeah. But yeah. So I just, I'm working on it. I have the Univox, too. Would you like to try something? Yeah. What is it? Why do you have a white one? What do you have? Red one? No, I got this, this sunburst with the jacos. Oh, yeah. The toy to show. I mean, he had a bite. Kurt, like, cheap guitars because he's, he liked to beat them up and have new necks on them all a time. So he bought cheap and then it was hard to find a tender guitar. Exactly. So, and he, so these were all cheap guitars. Japanese made, vendors and stuff like he didn't have any Gibson U.S. guitars or anything. He's just, he's buying them in second hand shops when he's overseas and there's, you know, he needs another guitar and like, yeah, Kurt's guitars were fucking, even, they were all weird and they all, he liked like four to six months. Yeah. And he had the Jag never got it. He didn't use guitars that had humbuckers in them. He used single coil guitars and then put humbuckers in them, which all the time. Yeah, which wasn't a thing. No. So like a strap with a humbucker in it. You're like, that's like a weird looking, it's weird. Yeah, these guys don't know. We're don't. I'm following along. I'm not all of it, but I'm following along. Okay. Again, the gas now. See, I'm just buttering up the gas and getting them comfortable before we start there. Now we get a fucking wrecking off the floor. Yeah. Yeah. What a great line. I have a one nerve on a shirt that I literally never wore my aunt got it for me for my birthday. And this would have been like in 96 or something. Did it not fit? No, it was a habit. Yeah. So here's the deal. It was the the unplugged t-shirt. So it was like a picture of him on stage and it, you know, yes, MTV, unplugged Nirvana, live or whatever. I, I was like, this isn't cool. I wanted the cool shirts like the band album shirts. So I was like, I felt like at the time I was like, man, only the posers would wear this shirt. But I never got rid of it. So I still didn't have these folded up and it's worth like $100. It's worth like $200. I look at up the other months. I was like, oh, we should. This thing's worth money. No. It's crazy because I see kids like when I'm on campus sometimes, you know, 20 years old, 19 wearing Nirvana shirts and we, yeah, we're never live when he died. Yeah. Like that's how that's how like trendy or popular. But it's cool when they know the music. There's a kid at my gym that plays the guitar and he's to be like, yeah, I got the whole never mind album now. I can play a whole thing and I'm like, that's fucking awesome. You're like, it is. I mean, I'm sure it inspired me to pick up a guitar and like, I don't know. I'm left handed and I do everything left handed and I tried initially tried to play right handed because it was, you know, common. You could find guitars. It just wasn't doing it for me. And I bet if Kirk will be in did in play left handed, I probably would have stuck it out. But he was such an influence on me and I loved, I truly like, am hugely biased that I'm left handed. I think it has a huge influence on my life in general. So I think if if he hadn't been left handed, I probably wouldn't, definitely wouldn't have all these lefty guitars wouldn't try to see what I can do. But I am so much more comfortable playing left handed. It was crazy because you would think your stronger hand will be better at fretting. But for me, it's so much easier to keep rhythm. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's like, I'm right handed. So dusty does he's a hockey, which if I, if I have my left hand down on the stick, that should be right handed. Yeah, so I'm right handed. But I shoot left handed at hockey for sure. So then he feels way off. Can it because it's the same thing? No. Huh. I don't even imagine. You give me a hockey stick. If you give me a hockey stick and you tell me like, hey, take some shots at this net, I will like, my wrist shot is left snaps now. Yeah. So like, you know, I played across, right? And so it's a little across his amodex sport, but I'm, I like goaly. So I play left handed, right? So you hold it like this. You catch it. I throw left handed. It's very hard to, for goaly really to like the amodex, but when I played hockey first, because of the, like the motion you're talking about it, just let the left hand being on the bottom, I played goaly right handed with my left hand being the glove, which is odd because, you know, I don't throw right handed, but just because of it was easier for me to like move a pop-up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that's that and like brushing my teeth oddly enough, are the two things I use my right hand. Well, but I read it. I read this cool study years ago that if you do something with your non-dominant hand, one today, yes. You know, you're crossing the chair. It causes like your brain to use parts of it that haven't been used before. I quite often will try to brush my teeth like, oh, okay, I'm just going to finish off with my left hand, like I do that. You know, you finish off with your left hand. Yeah. Yeah, I get right to the right to where I'm almost. Roger. Right. I'm almost done in an action. It's just my left hand. Then I can say that I'm in Badextris. Yeah. Yeah. A lot of five seconds. Yeah. This will get dropped in with no context. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Exactly. Well, it was because good talking to Tarsity, man, that's awesome. I'm glad you brought it and showed it to me. I'm wide awake now. Yeah. I knew you would appreciate it. Yeah. Yeah. I had to bring them all out. I wish I had to. I wish I had a hang on the wall like you do, but I'm moving soon. So I didn't want to just like put everything, but I have, you know, five now. I'm trying to get possibly a six. I want to hang them up like you have it. It just looks super cool. Right. Do you have a base? You need a base. I got the Thunderbird down there. I know. I've seen you play base. I've never learned how to play base. I mean, it's, it's a, it's an easy crossover. You just got to use to like how wide the, how big the, it's just a big fat, you know. Yeah. I mean, I used to play a seven string. So like when corn became popular, right? So listen, this is a corn corn in their five up guitars. Yeah. Right. So they didn't make left handed seven strings at the time. This is like we're talking what 97. Anyone playing a string is good. Right. So I custom made a seven string lefty. And I ordered all the parts from the I then as the pickups, the, the, the bridge, the nut, everything that was the seven string I had to get from them custom. And then then the neck, I got from like a warm off. I think warm off is the kind of they need like necks and bodies. So got that put it together. So like this Frankenstein, lefty seven string and metal. It's so I loved playing like that low A sound like when you detune it or even like the low B. But like they say they make nine strings like the deaf tones, like nine string. Yeah. How do you even do that? That's crazy. Or like less clay pool. So I'm like a seven like a five string bass just well, he's the good. He's the goat. Like, simultaneously. I don't know. I mean, that's a hard toss up, but dude, less clay pool is insane. Yeah. It's so good that I can't listen to it. You know what I mean? Like, people go, are you into primates? I'm like, no, but he's fucking amazing. Like, I'm listening to him play bass all day, but I don't listen to primates. This is just too much. I'm just trying to just chew on. Like, yes. I've nothing against them, but no, it's cool. Like he's doing his own thing. Yeah. Yeah. Nobody else sounds like primates. No, nobody. Like, not even close. Like, yeah, they're, they're, they're, they're not even, it's not even the time signatures. It's like they're, they're, they're not even as John is counting. No, I don't even know what you call it. Like, they're not metal. They're not punk. They're not grown. Yeah. They were just like, all they're not alternative at the time. You're, yeah, just less being fucking weird on his bass with a band. That's what it is. Yeah. And crazy lyrics. Yeah. And then they did the south park song, which was awesome. Yeah. Yeah. I never liked when it was big brown beaver. Like, yeah. I never liked brown beaver. It was never fan. And I, I don't really like blind when blind came out. It was like a game. Yeah. Like, with, I don't know how you're younger than that. You know that riff. Yeah. I'm four. You're how well? 44. Oh, I'm, I'm 49 now. So I got a few years in you. I was like 15 when Nirvana came out. So it was like primetime for all the antigens to be hitting me. You know what I'm saying? I was, I was 10. I was 11. I think when I got never mind. Okay. But like, but when corn came out, I had never heard a seven string before. I've only heard drop D stuff. Yeah. And so I was just like, this is a weird cool thing. And then feel as a bassist, obviously. And they just like the heaviness of the breakdown. Because this was like the start of new metal. Yeah. The corn sound and like when biscuit evolved from that. And you know, it was just a different sound than like your metal. Because I loved, you know, can't terror. I saw them. If you thought love the towel. I saw paint terror. I saw paint terror. Like small. We have this place harpo's into trait, which is just like the nasty place. Slayer got banned from harpo's. But at that way, it was. Oh God. They came back eventually. But I wanted to ask you guys, have you heard the story of how corn got their band name? Yes. I just recently saw a YouTube short. And I never was a fan of corn and all of a sudden. I'm like, man, I think I missed out. Now they were like, what was it Ron? There was a he said that he wanted to call the band corn. And they had some record label guys. Like you can't call it corn. And the guy's name was Gary. He said, okay, well, for not calling it corn, we're calling it Gary. Yeah. He's like, you get your choice. It's either corn or Gary. Yeah. Yeah. And then and then he goes, then he says something like, fine, you know, but I can't imagine the word corn. Yeah. Ritten on an album. And then he grabbed a piece of paper and Jonathan the singer took a crayon and wrote with a key. And that's how that came out. On the paper one time, K backwards are that's a logo. Damn. Yeah. I don't do that story. crayon one one time. Yeah. That logo forever. He was like, and I've chuckled about the name ever since. And I was like, you know what I think I like this guy. Yeah. He's I mean, these guys are like, I don't say super old, but they're old now. And like, they're still rocking out like all this over. And they're saying, now, which is great. Well, imagine if Kurt was still here, what would have happened to Nirvana is like, because like, think about like the way Stone Temple pilots went in Pearl Jam. So everything kind of I developed it became like mainstream. I think yeah, I think Cobain would have wound up being um, I think Cobain at 45 years old is an acoustic guitar Bob Dylan Johnny Cash acoustic guitar Bob Dylan's story teller artists. He's not even in a band. Yeah. I guess you're like 100% small shows and theater for people for hundreds of dollars to take it because it's because he needs to artist and artists, not a not a musician. That's what Cobain would have done. I think I've a hundred of a reason I agree that yeah. He even said that. He was sick and tired of it all. Yeah. Yeah. He hated being famous. Yeah. There was lots of stuff in the band going on. Like, I just think that he would have definitely gone by on his own acoustic. He talked about that a lot too. He really one of his shows that he really loved was the unplugged show. Yeah. He's super hyper critical on himself and he's like, he actually thought that was a good show. He said it would imagine. His book one of his books that um, there is a place called The Blind Pig into Troy. Or it gives me an arbor Michigan. And he said that was his favorite place to play. I didn't get to see him play there. But it was one of those venues that would have helped like 150 people, you know, low ceilings and everything like I could only imagine what seeing him in a place like that would have been, you know. And he quite often said he's like, once we got to Arena's, we were like, oh, this is this is it. This isn't better. No. Yeah. Isn't better. The clubs are better. This is this is like, this is the big business now. I mean, he's come. He came from the small club club. Stage diving like jumping out on the crowd. In the right on stage. Yeah. Like letting people enjoy the show if you see a couple hundred people, you know, that's a fun time. I've been this small show. There are a lot of one. You go to Arena's show, you know, with like, you know, 10,000 people or whatever, you're in a seat maybe, which sucks. Yeah. I'm the, or if you're on the floor, there's so many people. It's, it's, it's as an artist, like, can't imagine it's cool. And let's just a huge ego maniac. Yeah. Well, you know, all adrenaline is like adrenaline does feel good to people like, you know, when you walk on stage and it crowd cheers, like, I, and I can imagine that at that level. You'd be like, yeah, Arena is all right. And then, you know, your, your agent calls in goes, yeah, we did 75 K at the gate. You're like, yeah, I'm okay with that. That's good to, you know, or 200 K at the gate or yeah, a lot more than that these days. Little look, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I mean, look at food fighters. Me tickets for food fighters when they saw selling out of winners, men are like, couple hundred bucks. Yeah. I mean, obviously they're a great band and they've come such a long way since fucking what 94 when their first album came out. I remember that, right? Something like that. Yeah, it was a long after it was over the food. Yeah, because of that role, which already writing song 95% of the end of their honor. My favorite Dave story is when in his book he says that after Kurt died, his whole world was like, you know, he was like, oh, what the fuck am I going to do with my life? There's no way I'm ever going to be in another band that good. He still thought of himself as just a drummer for hire. Right. The guy just got lucky and I was in Nirvana. Now it's over. Right. Yeah, because he said he's really said, like, I'm in a band that's had five drummers in like, yeah, years like yeah, who who are important. Emma. Yeah. And so he, you know, he wound up having like the best three years in Nirvana and then it was over. And so he was like, I get a get out of here because he said everything reminded him of Kurt, right? You everything reminded him of Nirvana. So he went to Ireland and he went up into like the rural area and he just wanted to go like get away from everyone. I don't know if he's got relatives there or something, but he was an Ireland in the middle of nowhere. And he rented a car and he was just driving the seaside highway in Ireland just he's there for like a while. And he saw this hitchhiker and he was thinking, man, like, this is so nice to get away from everything that reminds me of what was going on. And he saw this hitchhiker in the rain and he was like, fuck, I'm going to stop and pick this kid up. You know, on a what it's like, he looks like me. You know, kid long hairs got backpacks in the rain, middle of nowhere pulls over. Kids like, hey, hops in. He's got a fucking co-bained shirt on of the unplug concert with the guitar. Yeah, and he's like, get away from this. And he said he realized then that he was running from something that he would never escape. Wow, if he can't get away from it in the middle of fucking nowhere, then he guys will just go home. Yeah, I mean, look, I mean, look what he did. He's just like one of his amazingly musically talented people. I love this story of Pat Smyr and Cobain being backstage and Dave grabs one of Pat's guitars and he's warming up, just having fun on a guitar and pat walk into the room and they they walk back out of the room and they go around the corner and Pat goes, he's better than both of us. Because Dave was Dave's just everything. You do anything. Yeah, I think he's self. I think he's self-taught. Yeah, I know. Yeah, I know. And you probably know this. He used the drumsticks backwards. Like he held the the small part really in it. Hit with the thick part. Yeah, why didn't know the video. He didn't know when he started. He didn't know how to hold drums. No, I just think because he hits so fucking yeah, he's got more weight. But if you look at the videos, he holds them. I don't know if you call it upside down or backwards, but he holds the small end in his hand and hits with the thick end. It's crazy. That is why. And you can see it. So I don't know how that would not hurt your hand. But he said he took a drum lesson. And he said that the first thing that I told him was like, well, you don't know how to hold your sticks and he's like, oh, wow, this lesson's pointless. I'm six. So, well, let's get rolling. You want to talk about some muscle shit. Sure. Let's do it. Okay, I love it. I'll give you a see in trial. You

And it is true, you know, it's been over a year, it will be over a year since I last competed. So you don't have that fresh look, but also it's, I think it's doing the vantage, you know, for me. I always like, I'm much rather coming as the underdog a little forgotten than somebody that everyone that's, you know, is expecting something right? So it gives me a great opportunity for my first Olympia, you know, not too much, not too much pressure besides what I put on myself, which is perfect and show up with my best physically and honestly, and I have a great time doing it, man. Hey, everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building. I'm Big Ron Parlo, of course, I'm here with Dusty Handshot and the producers Scott McNally, like, share, subscribe, comment, and the bell. Yes, and remember, I am mutant.com, go to I am mutant.com and get your ISO surge, hardcore ISO, the new name, get your MindFK, and of course, everyone should get on the gear. All gear. Get on the gear. Okay, code's Dusty Code Big Ron. Save money, avoid people. On the show today, thank you. He's going to the Olympia or something. Brett Wilken, what's going on? Got somewhere to be in a couple weeks. Yeah, I feel like that's the focus is on right now for sure, we'll excitement. So let's go here. Talk about it today, man. I haven't done a podcast this entire prep. It's been a busy one with a movie and stuff. I wouldn't talk about it a little bit, Scott, I'm in the up last week. I was like, is it time my pop on and top body building? I was still like to do this when I can and especially with you guys. So I'm happy to be here today. Well, we brought your name up several times on the show. Like, you, I wonder if your ears are, you know, ears are hearing it because, you know, we did an episode of Little Wally Go Me and Scott talked about, people you should be following, right? And you were on the list, you know, for training content and your name comes up a lot. And then we had Hunter on last week and he mentioned that, you know, he said, wow, you know, with Brett and Martin eating weights every day, you know, there's something going like he made a comment about you guys training your ass off and, you know, killing it in the gym and everyone's got their eye on what you're doing and it's very motivating content. So if all for just that, thank you. Yeah, no, I did watch that while you guys did last week. That you did, I think your explanation was pretty perfect of like we, we still need a few of these fellas. That's what, that's what it's going to change now. Yeah, you know, it's like, you know, Brett and, you know, I'm not, I'm not the smartest guy out there. You know, it comes to train stuff. I know a thing or two, but you said it perfect. It's like, Brett just has that, you know, let's just do another one, just kind of fucking chether up real quick. You know, I mean, like, just make sure, just to make sure there's nothing left. You know, that kind of describes a lot of what of our training has been, you know, two, a point obviously we're not, the crazy part about it is everyone's things were crazy and stuff. It's just like neither Martin or I have ever actually got my knockout with like seriously hurt while training, right? Yeah. You still know exactly what we're doing when it comes to controlling the loadage, you know, execution and things like that, but it's the intensity that we bring to those sets with control. That's kind of what our continued focus has been for over the years. Don't stop what works and honestly, at the end of the day, train the way you want to train, man. You know, now that I'm 10 years deep in this, you guys, you know, 15, 20 years into this, it's like, I would have quit a long time ago if I would have just done what the notebook said or whatever. You know, I mean, like we, we built our own processes here and we, we, we, we, we die on our sword, man. So day, when I'm done with all my bodybuilding journey, I'm going to be, I'm going to be confident that I did it the way I wanted it to do and that's, you know, train the way I want to do. Well, let the right examples to everybody out there that, you know, the hard work does, it does work and you can grow that way. There's many different ways to train different, many different philosophies, but in a day, the hard work, the execution is going to be what shines through. Yeah. And you guys, you know, you, you never, you know, you're just trying to be a great bodybuilder, right? You're just trying to be the best bodybuilder you can. And you, you know, some guys have a reputation for, you know, this or that, but how do you feel about like, you're like, oh, I'm one of the, like, my reputation is killing it in the gym. Like, that's a, you know, that's something I think we all want it. We all wanted that. And, you know, you can't give that reputation to yourself that reputation follows you around. So how do you, how do you feel about that? Just being one of those guys or people really respect your training and your efforts. And that's why people follow you. And, you know, you kind of found yourself here. Yeah. I mean, like, if you think about you can't be the best bodybuilder in the world, like, you might as well be the best bodybuilder's favorite bodybuilder, right? You know, if you don't have the genetics to possibly be that, that least show the examples of everything else besides the genetic portion of bodybuilding that you're doing it correctly. You're setting the example. This is, this is how it's done and people want to watch you to mimic that, right? So that's something I try to, you know, always, always try to emphasize in my day to day is like, obviously, you know, genetically, proportionally, you know, clavically, like, I'm not going to be the best physically made up bodybuilder in the world, right? But what can I do to close that gap? What are all these little extra things that I can close that gap with conditioning with, be say, if say it posing, you know, with waste control, all those things. So it's just, it's, it's cool to know that like a lot of people follow me just because of they see the importance of what I'm able to, you know, what I'm able to do behind my day to day life and I love it, man. I, you know, obviously, I don't have millions of millions of followers, but my engagement is insane when it comes to people that follow me for the right reasons. And yeah, I have a very, very loyal fan base and especially, I feel like, because I can provide something, you know, and that's why I try to do on my YouTube and if you guys don't follow my YouTube or whatever, but it's, it's strictly just pretty much training related. I just show my training sessions. Obviously, I'll do some food things in there too, but it's, it's me talking the, the ends and outs of training in, in our day to day and, um, and that's what it's all about for us. I think that's the, well, I want to say that's what I, you know, it is. That's what, yeah, to me, that's what bodybuilding is. It's not like, oh, this guy has the perfect physique. He was meant for the sport like he was God's gift. It's like, hey, you know what, I'm a normal human being, and maybe I have some genetic gifts in some places. I'm going to exploit those, but then I'm also going to turn everything else up to try to make the bet, you know what I mean? It's like, you got, you men's physique is like, basically, you've got a small waist wide shoulders. You either have that or you don't bodybuilding, you can create the physique. You know what I'm saying? And I think that what you're hitting on, man, that's like exactly what this sport is about. So that's I think that that's one of the reasons to that people really connect to you because not only that, but then you've taken it to the the level that you have in for people who don't know, you are a lot smaller when you got your pro-curd. A lot smaller. I mean, I know you were holding back, dude, at the time, I remember you told me that like, you were, how much did you, did you weigh at that, that pro-curd win? So when we went probably at 194 pounds, is what I remember. So you were classic, and people people watching this, especially after these past two weekends, where it's, you know, everyone's exploded about how, you know, hers is the first classic guy to, you know, go to the open Olympia. That was actually actually, I was actually a classic pro first, built my way up into the two-chweeping to the open and now we're going to step on the open stage. So this will be a first year that, but I was the original one of those guys. So it has been done before. Obviously, not to this level where you're seeing a top two or top three, classic guy that opened down stuff, but it's cool to see, I feel like I helped set that example. I know I did for hers even too, because, you know, I talked to him regularly. So it's like part of that, him seeing previous years, he knew he could eventually do that. And now we're starting to see it with a lot of classic guys that, you know, aren't necessarily restricting themselves anymore, trying to find the best look, but also challenging themselves. I think that's what a lot of it was. It's like, you know, a lot of, they kind of psyched themselves out, going with the big boys or whatever, it's just, I think I was kind of the first guy that said, you know, screw it. I'm going right into, you know, taking a couple of years off, going into this open and coming in there with a, you know, with a, with a, with a chip on my shoulders. So that's what, well, that's what we saw. Yeah, and you didn't even say like, two-ten. You didn't even say like, two-twelf. You weren't like, oh, I think I'm going to just try to get to two-twelf and work my way up. You're like, you know what, this is great. Everything, I'm going to do open, you know, lout the gate. Sorry, do you think that a lot of guys have kind of, I mean, in my, when I think a bodybuilding, when I've got started, especially as someone with more average next, it was always just about more being a little better, a little bigger, a little harder, whatever it is. And I feel like that's the spot where some of these guys are kind of getting hedged off is they hit that weight cap and you're not really bodybuilding anymore. You're, you're, you're body maintaining. And we all know that the body wants to creep its way up just from training and everything else. And I think that's kind of what happened with hers is his body was no longer small enough to be a classic guy. He was just making it happen. So the, the dip was enormous, you know. I mean, there's a big difference between being at the top of the weight class because you squeezed in versus being at the top of the weight class because you had to basically eat nothing and not train to get down, you know what I mean, to plead yourself too completely too looks are completely different at that point. I'm hoping primarily because I'm retired, not not to worry about more guys beating me, that some of these other guys jump in because if I was like a top 20 guy at the pro levels, I'd be like, please keep the classic guys in classic. Yeah, because they're all going to come out here and start kicking our asses. You know, because I feel like a lot of the classic guys, I mean, just like you when I know you, when you're speaking about not being the best, you're talking, you're comparing yourself to you know, literally flawless genetics, your, your structure and everything is freaking incredible. Yeah. And I feel like most of the guys who are classic, if they decided to turn it up, they're genetically the best bodybuilders. Proportionally, yeah. Yeah. So, symmetrically for sure. I mean, we see that. Then the only thing is that what we're going to, I'm going to be interested in seeing is seeing that balance of how that look transitions. Because even with, or I think hers is probably going to be one of the better examples of that transition. But even there, you know, you could still see like even with that, actually like, it's still an extra 25, 30 pounds. You know, it is a different look, right? You know, the waist is a little bit thicker. And so it's about finding that balance of not, almost like almost not too quick to, right? Yeah. Don't ruin your, don't ruin your, don't ruin your, like last week's look, like, it is like for hers is like, I'm like, I think you don't want to be better about 10 pounds lighter. You know what I mean? It's just, he lost a little too much lines. And then yesterday, or was it? Yeah. But he was even sharper yesterday. So it was kind of a good blend yesterday, really was. But like, again, we're talking about, we're also talking about maybe top 5, 6, 7 guys here though, too. I don't know how I'm going to work in this and like that, you know, we've seen a few other guys try it just like, hers is going to be a top body, but he was always going to be a top body, but eventually anyway. You know what I mean? Like he was a transition. It just, it was time. Chris can make that jump. Probably around when we were, remote, you know, can just be based off his proportions and this look, Mike, maybe, you know, I mean, I mean, I mean, that we're just talking. But after that, I think six, seven, eight guys. I don't think it would like, then I think size will kind of become an issue, too, especially if you would be a top one. But you're right, man. No, you're definitely right. Those, I guess that those top 5, 6, 7, classic guys. If they want to take the time, do it right. Like they have a really good chance to build up into the open to be successful because we're seeing that. My, my number one thought when I saw hers, what I didn't think at the first week, because I was just like, oh, he looks crazy huge, you know. And then this past week, I thought, you know, we really got jipped with bum stead. You did the one open, he did the one open show, but it was like a couple weeks after the Olympia. I want to see what, I want to see the, give me two years of power. I want the nine months. I want the nine month bum stead open just one time. You know what I mean? I just want to see that what it, you know, a 30 pounds or whatever, you know, 60, 60. Yeah, it is never no, right? Yes, it's true. For you to get from, it's an interesting point you make, too. Like you said, taking time. I mean, now obviously, this isn't your first rodeo here, but we're talking from now to the time you turn pro. That was 2018. So, you did take your time in actually building that physique and, and filling it out. I think you have a point, because I've seen that. We've all seen that. We tell guys like, don't push too hard, you know, blow your midsection, out, stuff like that. So, you know, I could definitely echo where you're coming from with that. And to look back on everything, I think that's what I actually did the best. I know people, they only remember me kind of blowing up right into the open. They're like, oh, he grew so fast, right? But they didn't know like the six, seven years before that. I was adding like five to 10 pounds of muscle here. But I didn't know why I was. That was the crazy part. I was just doing it for fun. You know what I mean? Like, I was, I was Ivana's bag boy. I remember back then like, you know, the Olympias. I was just holding her bags training with John Meadows on the side, you know, you know, just like she'd be at the hotel getting ready for the show. Me and John be training. Like, and I was always just behind the scenes. But I was, I was in it, man. You know what I mean? I catched myself. I, you know, I had my own goals. But I guess John went from like 190, you won't. When I met Ivana's 175, then year later 185, then I was 195, then I was, you know, in about five years later, then is, you know, everything started clicking, right? And so on that just, haven't stopped. It's been that same trajectory here over the last 10 years. We, you know, that's funny because it you just reminded me and I did mention this the other week. I remember the first time that I talked with you, first time I interviewed with you. Was one of your first, I mean, like, doesn't your kind of first-gen started to? Yeah. I'd been at it for a little while. A couple of few years. But yeah, it was definitely earlier on. But after that conversation, I talked to John and Scott Bulf. And he had said, that boy destroyed us on legs. He said that he's strong on legs, man. It kind of cracked me up because that was the first, that was the first impression I had of you through someone else's perspective. His then John Meadows and Scott Stevens said that you smoke to them on legs. What was it like, you know, training with John? I got to ask you because that's I never got a chance to train with him. Part of it is I was just naive too. Where it's just like, you know, I didn't have my examples or is what I saw online, man. You know, watching to watch the branch Warren Johnny Jackson watching these sessions. So like, that's all I knew. So like, when I got the, you know, when I had those opportunities, the chain with John, we've got Stevenson and everyone, man, I would go in there and I was, I was in for a half of the phone. And then that was his cool. And then I would like the fire under him. So I know exactly like knocking about because we ended up doing like some safety squat bars squats that day. And then I think it was the first time that we ever really like squatted together and then like, you know, like John put like three plates on did a set. I did, you know, and he kind of looks at me like, you know, he did 12 to right, you know, put the quarter on. We the 365, you know, I did his me and see that he starts getting a little worked up. You know, you know, like he kind of looks a little flustered. I don't know if you guys ever seen John, like that, but it was like, well, first of all, they were seeing that. So he throws four of five on there and me and then just start going back and forth with each other. It's got laughing and like, and I'm just, I'm, I didn't go me, go, he didn't go me, go and like, and I think that's, that was a big step of it. Like obviously earning his respect, but also showing, you know, there's something special about this dude. And like after, I think after that, like he really kind of, he definitely bought it in the me and then also, you know, I don't know, you guys remember this, but when I went and did my, and ended up doing my open debut and, and I'm, it was in Tampa, or sorry, Atlanta that year, so it was Pishikago. But remember he was there and then like a week later, he did a video saying, how bodybuilding is in the best spot, how he really, you know, enjoyed Hunter watching me and Hunter battle it out and stuff and, and then like a few days later, he was when he passed, you know, but it was like, it almost lit another fire under him and like we had, we literally had just started that day, it was like, hey, I need to bring up my heart, you know, post show. So we started, we was going to start training me again and everything and then obviously that happened, but, um, we had just such great experiences and then all everything that I've made my philosophies on training, everything that I do as, as a big root and stem from John Medell. So I know we all have that in this, in this group, but, um, it's such a great man for all of us for sure. Yeah, I want to do ask you, you know, speaking of meadows and all that. Um, we talk about training partners a lot on this show and, uh, you know, obviously we talk about you and Martin eating weights and all that, but what else is there to your relationship with Martin that, you know, when you train the way you guys do, I mean, I've had training partners, you know, for, I've had a small number of them that, you know, we're like years and years long each, right? And there's, there's only certain people you can do that with, you know, you have to have a connection with someone to train with them for, you know, four or five years straight. Um, what's the relationship with Martin like, you know, you guys just click perfectly with, you know, being the same time of day and all that all was with it just works out good. Like, what makes you guys a great pair? Yeah, I think I think at this point, you know, now being six years deep into this, it's just like, it's, it's the system that works that that's that's what you know. Like, we're at a point where we like, you don't even, I mean, we do obviously, but we don't need to talk to each other. Like, you know, you just walk in, you know, you don't really really, friends. Yeah, you know, it's wife's name. All right, my deaf kids, I don't know, I never asked. Just got growing and when you got in the marriage, how he's feeling on the day, we might just grow on each other. But I think it's like, we know what we can get done and like, we've been training together so long. Like, we know what actually, like, we might not know the exact exercise, but we know the sequence it needs to be. And so we, we just, it just flows, man. So also with that, it's like the mental side of things, you know, I mean, like, we create such a good relationship in regards to like mentally being close and, you know, obviously knowing each other and what they're dealing with and things like that. So it's like, it's good to have that person, especially another man, male, male figure that you can bounce things off of. Especially on these props, man. A lot of people get lost in these, you know, it's a benefit to have a good training partner, not only obviously, obviously, for the physical side things, the push through these sessions, they're really hard and energy's levels, but also on the mental side of things, man, I don't like it gets, obviously, it doesn't get talking enough about, but just the mental tranquility, the tough, the hardships that go into, you know, managing everything mental prep. So having a person that you can bouncing off of, you can use, you can resource, it helps a lot as well. And then at the end of the day, just soak in this, this process in with one of your best friends, you can't be it. You know, I mean, like, think about all the fun you guys have had training together over the years. And what we're going to do that lead into an Olympic man, something we've been talking about for seven, you know, six, seven years, we couldn't go up in there and do it together. So I was really used this prep. And a lot of this is just having a daughter now too, as you guys know, it's like, I've really been able to slow down and enjoy moments more, especially on preps. So I can probably follow it for my social media and stuff. It's just been extremely, you know, obviously, team oriented with the people around me, obviously, extremely family oriented and just including everybody in the two. With it comes to you and Martin training together, is it, is there anything that you do differently or separately like does he ever come in to do extra biceps or do you have a day where you don't actually train together because you're doing some extra hams and he's got some doubt like is it, or is it just straight across a board, you guys are like locked in what's the actual, you know, in the know. So I was, yeah, for sure, I was more so in the past, like it was like we had to did everything. Now as we advanced and obviously we have different weak points, strong points. There are things that we will separate on stuff. So like, obviously looking at Martin, like he doesn't need a shoulder press because he has some of the biggest fucking shoulders I ever seen, right? So when we do push, like towards the end of push, like we'll do chest and shoulders together, and I'll just do shoulder pressing and then he'll just do more chest or thing like that. So we will like we'll hit probably 80 and 90% of everything together and then at the end of the session, then we'll kind of split up and hit any specifics that we might need on that then. It's a bit of customization. Yeah, yeah, so many like me a little bit more arms and things like that. So it's just you know, it's still an individual thing, you know, we still have to make sure that we're taking care of ourselves first and getting ready for the stage, right? So making sure that all just comes together and then we'll go pose after that and finish out the session. So it flows really well. Being that you guys obviously like us kind of grew up watching the branch and Johnny show, how does it feel when you're regularly compared to them now? Because you guys are this generation's branch and Johnny? I mean, that's it. It's always an honor just to hear, you know, I mean, just because thinking about all the cool shit we use the watch of the day, but to be honest, we kind of are, you know, I mean, like I'm I'm not in the other day, like like I'm not only one and I'm not the only one, but there's not much content out there right now. Just hard training, you know, I mean, so like, you know, that's what my I really emphasize is putting that on the YouTube keeping that out there, just keep that alive and it's really cool to be tagged in these things, called that and just set that example because it needs to be there. You know, they we can't go to like when we talked about when we started this video, we can't go too fluently on this training man. Like we got to still have that that that solid path that's all about nation of hardcore training that we had set the examples. Because I got I got actually I got to bone to pick with with Holland's head. I mean, he's he's our generation's hard hardcore trainer right now. You know, he's our door in the eighths and then like last week I saw him doing some like R D L's with his ass cheek saying, you know, stuff like that. I saw that too. I'm going to have to call him up man. You can't be the ordinary door gates and having your your butt stick on only fans or whatever. Just just another income stream just another income stream off. You gotta have at least five it comes secret. It was short. The diaper bills are adding up because we're able to go out. I'll kill love this. This is going to our first clip first clip. This is a clip for sure. We're going to have James on you James. I am disappointed. We're going to have James on for a reaction to this portion. Yeah. So I can't believe that. I mean, in all seriousness. One day he's squatting seven plates for a side the next day he's got his ass. Hey, times are tough and you tell him he's expensive over there. The tie ends were popping. It's time for popping that day. It's the baby diapers. No, but seriously, I love that you guys are doing that because when I got into body building and didn't know anything, I just looked at videos of the most hardcore guys and tried to emulate and I think right now with so much I'm going to use the word misinformation out there about how you can get big or confusion even. You know, guys who see someone late in their career that's not doing that anymore because it's not the the risk to reward isn't there for them anymore. But I think it's important that the young guys coming up see that we talk about with Hunter about like you have to build your base. I mean, I tell clients all the time. People in your gym should think you're crazy. If they don't, you're not doing it right. Yeah, you know, and I'm sure if you guys popped into any gym across the country that didn't know you and started just having a normal workout, there would be confusion as to why you guys are trying to kill each other. And you know, I just think that that's missing because you know, I'm sure you were the same when you didn't know anything. You'd go in the gym and it was just what else can we do to ourselves today unlive. Sorry. Sorry about that there. You know, but I mean, that's one of those things that I think is has gotten lost a little bit with so many people having access to just putting out their own content. I mean, I grew up watching Ronnie Coleman row 495 for reps. And I was like, all right, well, here I am at 185. I got work to do, right? You know, so I love seeing that you guys are doing that. And I love that the physique's show it because I always feel like I can tell how someone trains when I look at their physique. There's I feel like I have a little bit like I do that. I don't know if I'm right. I got trained hard. Yeah. I got to say the muscle. Yeah, right. You can just with cement. This guy's training hard. I don't know nothing about him. So, you know, looking into the Olympia and I saw you put a post up which I loved or a story about where you were assumed you would land at the Olympia. You're like, oh, they got me in last. That's perfect. Right? Where I want to be, you know, we talked about that with Hunter. Don't you find it interesting how because you got your qualification essentially a year ago, everyone assumes you're just bringing that look again. Yeah. We, we, we all know bodybuilding. You're always as good as you're that showing, right? So yeah. And just a good example of this is think about this time last year. Think about how the, how the world view Nick Walker and look how they look at him to. Yeah. You know, right now he's done Stirlipi here in three weeks. And last year he was written off and he was going to be retired. And you know, I mean, it's just the exact example I wish to think it off. Man, every piece of sand that per reinvent themselves, staying true to himself, getting the work done and just doing the shit. You know, I mean, like props to them, you know, I talked to him actually a couple weeks ago and then gave him props for that. Like, you know, you were written opera. Like you were like, you were like, oh, real had you off. And you just just not kind of adore it. But that that's bodybuilding. So as long as you continue to believe in yourself and you know, like I said, and I'm in such a good head space, like I said, I don't, I don't really truly value the people's opinions on the internet, you know. And it is true. You know, it's been over a year, it will be over a year since I last competed. So you don't have that fresh look. But also it's, I think it's doing the vanage, you know, for me, I always like, I'm much rather coming as the underdog a little forgotten than somebody that everyone that's, you know, is expecting something right. So it gives me a great opportunity for my first Olympia. You know, not too much, not too much pressure besides what I put on myself, which is perfect. And then, you know, and show up and with my best physique ever and honestly, and I have a great time doing it, man. I told the guys last week for all of those reasons. That's why you're my dark horse is just the perceived notion of what we already know what he looks like. But that was quite some time ago. So mark my words, guys. What's kind of your Martin last year? I mean, everyone new Martin was good, but no one expected what he did. You know, I mean, Martin's been great for a long time. But I'll be the first say I wasn't like, oh, top five. No, no, no, you know, I mean, I'd loved to lie and say I had him, no, I got him in fourth, you know, six weeks out. But I was like, yeah, that's, there's just too many people to leap frog for that to be possible in the timeframe. So I think that that's an exciting thing going in. And I also love that you guys get a little, it's a little throwback to like the the courmeyer, Wheeler thing where you've got two guys who are at the same level. I know you need to mark that at the Olympia stage, but you are which makes you both better. I mean, you're essentially competing with a close friend that's also very close competition, and that only makes both of you better. Yeah. And that's something I gotta remind myself sometimes. It's like, you know, we get so caught up, but you know, like, where are like posed in after a session. And you know, obviously he has a really strong shots and stuff. And then obviously I do on over him on some too, but it's just like, catch yourself looking like, damn, you're like, oh, shit, he was fourth in the world last year. I gotta remember that. That's not my shot right there, you know, but just like, with that, that's the awesome part is like, I am, I am, I, you know, daily, I get to compete against and I compare against someone that's at that level, right? So it's only going to level me up, which it has. Hey, on that note, we talked to Jordan. We talked to Hunter, and now we're talking to you on the topic. I want to ask you is the, like, the Texas vibe, you know, kind of taking that, you know, you and Martin have that energy that you're playing off each other, but then there's kind of that slightly the bigger community of the Texas bodybuilding scene that you're both a part of. How long ago had you moved to Texas? Now, and what are you thinking about just the environment that you're in there? So, I moved to your June 1st. So it's been a, like I said, three of us four months now. So, and honestly, it was one of the best memes that I've ever made. It was Texas is cool. We, we, we definitely like it. We're over on the Houston area, around the north side of Houston. And it is, it is a thriving bodybuilding community. You are, you're absolutely right there. A lot of old school gyms. There's just gyms everywhere out here. Really good, community lifting each other up. And then obviously Martin had a little bit of history here. You know, he lived in Dallas there for a couple of years. So he has a lot of resources and stuff to. But what brought me out here is I'm actually, you know, I'm actually, I, so this, you guys probably know this with a butcher bomb, right? So my office, all right. Yeah. So I got, we got my offices out here and everything. I'm actually creating a couple of new companies, I'm getting into some more of the peptides with cosmetic creams and stuff too. So that was kind of the reason for the move. Initially is kind of set up. I want to build a gym out here next year. And then there are in the next couple of years. I'm going to be expanding those things too. But just setting up life after bodybuilding and having like a true home base. And what I've learned last four months is it's perfect out here. I really, I really enjoyed it. And then there's so many resources in regards to like, you know, like bowl, mega man, all these Jimmy equipment, like, you know, these sponsors. It's just, it's just a cool thriving community down there. And you guys can as kids see it just continue to blow up. I love that. Hey, why, why you mentioned it, the butcher bomb. That has BPC and it doesn't it? Yeah. Yeah. So I've never, so yeah, I've literally, I've had no experience with topical BPC. Tell us a little bit about that. Yeah. So this is actually one of the first versions of a topical BPC in America and TB 500. So that's probably why. Has a bunch of essential oils as well. Can't for a mental. So we have can't for a mental near. So what that does is actually just numbs you out. So what this is is a pharmaceutical grade ICI. So it's a very, very strong ICI. You apply it and numbs you out for three, four hours. So you can train through any issues, any pains, any ACE. But also through that, you're using the transdermal peptides. Yeah. So you have, you have the BPC 157, the TB 500, absorbing through the skin as a topical. So that's helping you chronically as well. So it's a cool, it's a feel good and a faith product. So it's going to make you feel good right away, numout any pain issues, get through training. But also it's healing you chronically long term as well for injury. So I just trained with the guy. I trained with the guy in Buffalo for one of my mutant on a mission episodes. And we were going to do legs. And I was really nervous because I hadn't done legs for for the camera for over a year because I had a bad hip. And I was going to do legs with them. And I was like, hey, I got to make sure I can train today. And he pulls a bottle of butcher's bomb out. And he says, putting it on his knees. And I was like, oh, can I have some of that? And he gave me a big doll up of it and I put it all over my hip. And it eventually got on my nuts, which you came a little bit. You came a little bit exciting around the leg extensions and leg curls at the end of the workout. But on the BPC on the nut sometimes, you know, yeah, little bit of an album from time. I thought it was awesome. I remember loving it and being like, I think that stuff was great. You know how when you have like a joint that hurts, he put cream on it. You have a great workout. You're like, dude, how does it? That's what it is. That's what it is. Good. Like it helped. Yeah. And I was like, I might have to get some of that. Yeah. Yeah. So I liked it. One try. Miracle cream bread. So it's been killed. I mean, it really has. So especially in the, especially in the like the strong man, you know, the Olympic lifting world and everything. So just continue to blow this up. It's been a beautiful first year. The business is booming. So that's why I got a continued expand down there. So that's awesome. But damn you guys, so you moved literally, like in your Olympia prep. I feel like as a coach, I'd be like, whatever you do, we don't want to make any big changes. Yeah, you were diving already, right? Yeah. It was like I said, here's the 14. What's that? I said it had Brad before. We started and so. All right. Well, we're on the land and it was full go after that. So drove drove the you haul what 27 hours, drove the whole way and then ended up when I finally got the final destination, pulling their front yard. I guess I've been rain all day and got the fucking you all stuck in the right. Yeah. So that's other night ended at two in the morning. So I just turned it off and figured it out in the morning. That's the most problems. Yeah. Exactly. I wanted to ask you about your mental side of the prep and how you keep yourself zoned and balanced out and home life and you got the kid now and all that stuff. So you know, you you you you're not the type of guy that is letting out outside stuff get into your head and you know, like you know, you've you're good at that. So how do you manage that stuff and and what do you do to kind of keep your mind calm and do you have any prep habits that you do every day or anything that you're you know, doing to just stay insulated and zoned and all that sort of stuff. Yeah. I think I mean, definitely more so I would say I think I'm I'm I'm good now, right. So like you're talking here now. This has been a beautiful prep. Hasn't always been like that. You know, I mean, so as you guys know, but probably the list there is, I actually had to pull out of the 2020 23-Mr Olympia. So I was all five for the 2020 3-Mr Olympia and about 7-6-weeks out. I don't remember exactly 5-6 weeks out. I actually had to pull out due to few different issues. Main issues were digestive issues. I wasn't absorbing all my food. My GI was gone, man. I had, you know, I want to get the GI mapped on. I have to take all these different types of probiotics just to rebuild my gut. And then it was the top process. But also with that, you know, what I like hard to learn is like just at that time, I was like right after we had our daughter, right? And then obviously getting ready for the Olympia. So I was putting a lot of pressure. Obviously I'm being a new father handling, you know, and then those sleep, whatever comes with that, everything just balancing the hormones and life in general. And then also getting ready for my first Olympia, which, you know, had hype and stuff too. So obviously that did affect me mentally. You know, especially when I had to pull out due to that just in this use. I went on the spiral of the depression, man. You know, and I know I'm not getting too real super, super deep because it's not going to be that crazy of a story. But more so what it was is like, you know, it is. I put me in the depressed state. I had to take some time off away from bodybuilding and realize really how I wanted to do what I wanted to do moving forward and how I was going to come back from this in attack. So obviously I had to fix everything with the gut first. That was about a four or five months process. But also, you know, like I said, that the press of state do handling that too. You know, and that was something totally new with me because I had never dealt with depression in my life. So like I was, you know, I was catching myself like listening to dark music, things like that. And there's just a really new experience for me. So it took me, like I said, that was the end of 2020, three. I really had to, I had to man up. I had to make some decisions to myself that I look myself in the mirror and say, like, what do I do now? And then the only thing I know what to do is I have to fucking pull up my pull up my bridges and let's get to work, right? You know, like this, that's the only way out of this is the is my work, my way out of it. So that's what I spent all 24 last year started. January 1st, I think it was, you know, got ready for that Legion sports Fest, which was in August. And I, like I said, I got all the down to like two or 25, 230 pounds, go all the way back up to 285, came down for the show and then ended up winning that show. So that was one of the more like, challenging aspects of when it comes to my body, but then journey in general, it's like I said, coming back from that experience in those things and then try and feet and then getting to this point. So what I'm saying with that is just handling all those up and downs, that has set me up so good this year that like, you know, I can handle anything right now, man. Like I said, I mean, you know, especially now I'm three weeks. I'm going to make this. I'm going to enjoy this. But I am in a really good spot. So I am very, very happy with everything. But like a, but those experiences has helped me build up to this that's really so good. Then, do you? Yeah. When you look at your, your life outside of the body building and this is something I know you've, you've dealt with a lot of, a lot of guys coming out, girls coming up, where they let their life outside of body building fall apart because they're body building, you know, what up either home life, their business life, whatever that may be. How do you manage that so well? And, and what advice do you have? Because I'm sure it wasn't always easy to do all that's special as a new father and all that stuff. I mean, you had a whole new kink thrown in the mix of a very selfish game. How do you kind of make sure you're doing all those things? And do you find that having the extra things on the outside the business, the wife, your, your daughter, does it make body building easier now that you've kind of put them all together? I think now, yes, especially now it's been about a couple of years and that have found that balance, especially with the communication aspect with your significant other. And then, of course, I have to say just having such a good relationship with my wife, Ivn, obviously, mother of my child and how we can communicate and set up things for the daughter and everything. But I do a really good job, man. Like, you know, I've gotten a really good time management, especially with the child. So it's like, hey, you know, I have two hours in the gym. I am maximizing my two hours, right? You know, like, you know, there's less, a little bit less talk and a little, maybe maybe less warm-up set, a little less bullshit. And like, you know, we, I only have a certain amount of time because I need to spend time with my daughter or I need to go, you know, I need to go help my wife because she needs time to go do something. So I've really been able to like, you know, when I get up in the morning, it's not, you know, taking your time to drink the coffee, you know, it's just like, hey, let's get out there. Let's get to work, right? And it's in a training, you get to work. But also, you know, those evenings when I'm not, you know, when we're relaxing and stuff, I don't, I don't spend too much time, like, putting too much more bodybuilding in my head. And when I'm mean by that, it's like, I'm not watching all too much extra collectors, like, just YouTube all night of YouTube. I'm trying to actually zone out for a while. Like, you stay, there should be more family things that you said. I'm also a sports fan, so I watch a lot of football. Meaning, you know, being on a joint, we got the little millies enjoying it now too. She loves yells football. Yeah, we are, our little things we live right now. Out here in Texas, we're actually on like three, we're staying on my buddy's property. And yeah, we have like four acres out there. So we have four, we are, I have a pond, I have, we have on fire. So we spend a lot of time outside. So it's just, I think it's also part of just maturing too. You guys all know this, like I said, when we were in our 20s, it was just, it was hard to get your head off a bodybuilding, right? You know, I'm just not saying it's not holding the water. I mean, it's still hard. I mean, I'm 30, you know, 36. And that's all I'm thinking about all day. But I'm able to manage it better, right? And realize that there are more, you know, there are things there are relationships here in the next 40 years that I need to continue to build up in stuff. So I just feel right now. I'm in that perfect bounce spot of, you know, half my time is four on by, but I have his family and I, I love where I'm at right now. I got to ask you about football. Yes. I spend Saturday and Sunday watching football. Go ahead. So I, I've, I've always loved football, but I wasn't like a huge fan for like a big gap because I was like just paying attention to play offs. And oh yeah, I watch a highlights and stuff. But this year, I'm watching football. I got my Sunday package. I got the games on. I'm fully into it. It's like I'm something I decided to do this year. So why do you love the game? And are you a Texans fan? Now that you live in Houston or are you, you're devoted to someone? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, who your team is? So I'm going to convert. Yeah, I could say, with us moving so much lately, like as if we moved the Denver, I became a Broncos fan, even though they stuck for four years. Went to, went to Florida. Yeah, some legacy. Get some legacy. You can cheer, right? It's stuck to the, no, so I've just always been a big football fan. So I grew up in the middle of the last house or Maya, so I was kind of a Vikings fan growing up. And now it's just kind of bouncing around the general. I grew up, my dad was, my dad was a PE teaching coach. So he had me and everything. I played four sports and everything growing up. And I ended up actually playing college football at a small college in Iowa. And so that was always my number one. Since I was a little kid, I always wanted to play and they had no foul and stuff. And I was pretty good. And I was, all state receiver, kicker, receiver. I was a little quick guy. I was going to ask you, you probably weighed what 170. Yeah, I once said we just juking everybody other shorts and then and then I just wasn't big enough to go under the NFL. So that's when bodybuilding came into aspects. But to this day, like I said, that's, that's something that really takes my mind off of things. It's just something that is in my family at coachings in my family sports or in my family. So I think everybody can do a better with some football in the weekends. I want you to say, because I like hearing what people have to say about their favorite sport. Why is football such a great game? What is it about football that you love? I want you to play. It's such a good game is that there's only, like I said, it's build up to one game per week, which is I think is very important. Like I said, it's only have 17 games on the year. It's not like it's not like other sports where it's baseball, basketball where they're playing every other night. The each game means so much more. So it's like everything is just an event. And I like how I has the tradition of like either Saturday or Sunday, right? So it brings you to the community, the families, the fan bases, to that one important three-hour stretch, then you're done for a week. You know what I mean? It's not too much. Then you get enough build up for the next week and you're excited again. You go again. I think the NFL just to sidebar is an incredible business model. It has done absolutely everything right and that is why they dominate and are by far the best of all the leagues as far as making money. And they own those times Sunday, Monday and the football. Yeah, they do. Who else has them? Who else like do you? Do you know is there Wednesday night hockey? There's Wednesday morning. It's just bodybuilding. There's that. Wednesday morning. It's just bodybuilding. Every Wednesday. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I think there's daylight football, but like they own those times and it's just they've just done such a great job of like you know, constructing all of the other stuff around making football part of your like a lifestyle for the fans. Well it's huge. And then now that they're bringing in like pop stars, like Taylor, you know what they know what they're doing. It's an extreme business. Sure. If you live in the South, it's actually more of a religion, but yeah, go ahead. It's not optional here. You move into town the neighbor knocks on your door. Who's your team on Saturday? You're like, whoa, what what's happening? Right. The neighbors need to know. You need to put a flag up. Are you the enemy or not? All I know is the long, long cords are like two and one, but like they're not very happy with our remaining around the years. I'm just kind of like these people are serious around here. One last football question, what do you think you learned from playing the game that you continue to use today? I played football as a kid to what what did football give you as an athlete and a person? Obviously all those, especially the lessons you learned, especially at the like I said, the child of the level high school level. But once I went to college and it became more of like, you know, you took a step up. That's when it taught me a lot of life lessons, right? They had to be a man. Like when they separate you into, when you go for the drink that jump from high school sports, the college sports, you know, it becomes so much more organized. It becomes a year long active of the right where you have an off season, your training off season. That's actually kind of what made me fall in love with bodybuilding to be honest with you guys is that the full off season lifting programs. So then I started in the strength of the strength of conditioning department, just to help them, you know. And that's where I learned a lot of my stuff as well like programming and everything. And that's when I really started like they could tell like, you know, I was staying after hitting a few bicep curls or what are you doing? What are you doing arms? What are you doing arms? We've got a loser receiver. Don't let him train calves. If his calves blow up, he's leaving. Coach is insecure or something, but they're like, why are you training extra arms? Is it a bit like, that's when I started noticing. I kind of like, I'm like, you know, I'm like a little bit bigger right. You know, like this is playing off, you know. So that that was all is really cool to me. It's like I learned a lot there in the in the strength of conditioning program. But also man, like I said, just how to become a man, how to how to how to create a team atmosphere and then using each other in that in that regards to. So like we did a lot of team bonding activities, like that. But also prepare you for the real world, man. I mean, that's what it does. If you be a leader, you know, I was a team captain and things like that. I was in charge of, you know, 40 guys on myself and overseeing it and just being a leader and being a man amongst boys for sure. Yeah, I love it. One of my favorite things about that game is how if everyone just does their fucking job. Right. But it's so hard. It's so hard to get 11 people to all do their job right. And it's a metaphor for owning a business. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, man. So what are your plans for getting to Vegas? Let's talk about the old. It's coming up. When do you go? So I'm heading in. I'm going on flying into Sunday to before. So going Sunday through Monday. So we're going to spend a week out there. I just especially with the drier climate. I'm in Houston now. So it's, I mean, I was in Florida for this. It's very humid. So we definitely need a little bit extra time to adjust just to get, you know, I guess that just the climate and humidity is way less out there. And also just enjoy the weekman. You know, they got feel like there's a new gym popping up in Vegas every time I look. All right. Are you going to hit more than one jam or you're going to just lock down somewhere for four or five days? I think I'll definitely have a couple of gyms. I'm going to try out that new tech gym that's that just opened up. We're staying on that south side of the strip there. So that's kind of where all the gyms are. So be bouncing around. Make a, make a full week of it. You know, have some fun. That's cool. Okay. Let's go. And I know that, you know, you, you, like you said, you have your day scheduled. You made this time for us. But we're catching you before you train today. What's the, what's the workout plans for your day? Back workout. It's a big one. Back. Yeah. I took yesterday. I've been trying to take Sunday's off. Which has been awesome because we found a nice local church in the day of Sabbath. So last, this past week, I went, I think I'm a Monday through Saturday trained all the way through. And then yesterday. Yeah. I mean, man, I was, that was feel on yesterday. So it was, it was a Sunday church day. And I laid on the couch for about 12 hours yesterday. Well, what will you guys do today for back? People are going to want to know. I just know. I know. I know right away my training partners go, you didn't ask them what their workouts can be. No, yeah. We, so you gotta hit all the angles of the back, right? So we got to, we got to blow it up first. We got to get wide and we got to get blood and the muscles. So this, we're going to train it. Jim called Texas iron Republic today. So this is going to more a little bit more old school equipment. That's what we're on like in it. But they got the old nautilus pull over, you know, this one. Yeah. Oh, yeah. We're going to start with that. Get them last warmed up, right? You got to make that sound too. It doesn't. The chain makes that sound. Yeah. Yeah. Um, then, you know, they got these, these, a couple other old piece. I don't know if you guys are heard of a fly FLIT. Yeah, the old pre-core play loaded stuff. I've got one 10 feet away from me. Right now. I mean, there's two bag machines in there. They're going to call these flight pieces. I'm there. I'm seeing me. We love it. Kind of like comes in like sucks. And you know, the circular movement ones. They're all sick of the movement. Right. That's a pre-core plate loaded, right? Is it plate loaded? Yes. Yeah. That's a, I think pre-core makes a flight line. But that's a whole plate loaded. I've got the chest machine. It's converging and it's has health. It is beautiful. The, yeah, the feels really nice. Is it that incline one scum? It's there and it's back. I think I got to look more into it. That's fine. I got, it reminds the flat. I could have bought it either of them. I went with the flat, but you can incline the bench a little bit. So it is good. I like the flat feeling better. All right. Okay. Yeah. We get into that next. You got the full over next. Yeah. The pull downs on the flight. And then we're going to do some single arm rows. So nice. The lace goes there. And then we have the new that gym got that new mega mass that T-bar row. Have you guys seen that one? Yeah. So one where you're kind of standing on the floor, but your chest supported. Chest where you're standing over and it's just drives. Yeah. And it's going to unreal. Right. Yeah. It's on a track. It's very nice. So the one on the bearings, right? It's not the linear bearings. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So we run that and then we got a nice drive, a, an old prime piece of, uh, it's a stride now. Yeah. Just a row machine there that will go for upper back. Okay. I'm in the, we'll finish with some lower. And there's some of the some bin overs there. Okay. Okay. Okay. It sounds easy on paper. You know what I mean? Like, like, pull over. People hold down. Yeah. Dr. Some girls lean on some machines. We're like up in and they're about two and a half hours. Yeah. That's what friends are for. That's right. Awesome. Yeah. What do you think is something that people waste their time thinking about while they're training? We're worrying about. Like, are you guys looking at the clock between sets or are you just resting to your breath as good or are you like, is there anything that you don't do that people say you're supposed to do or just I can honestly say in 15 years of training like I never once, I never once time my respirates in between my sets ever in my life. And I never well either. You know, I mean, you don't have that internal clock or if you don't have that motivation or what you need to do, you don't need to clock to tell you that, you know, I mean. So that's something I think people time up a little bit too much. It should be more focused on the intent and then the effort into the set. Instead of the exact respirator, you know. I think some people worry too much about like EA, timing and VCA timing. You ever see people like that? Just like, they're like it's like 315. I got to go get my 15 grams of EA, EA is into this minute and stuff. I was with one guy. I was actually with a guy over and so I was competing over and Spain. And he was actually kind of driving me around and like he was getting coached by Patrick two or and I'm like Patrick two or his plan. It was like half six grams of EA's at 217 BM. You know, first time I ever seen any of like Patrick's or stuff, you know. I mean, like this is this is there. What the plan said. So we're like driving and like I think you just taking me to the gym or something. You know, I'm a couple days out. I'm just a zombie now. Like pulls over on the side of the road and like starts making like a drink and I'm like, what are you doing, man? You know, he's just like, oh, I got to take my EA's right now. It's 2017, you know. And I'm like 12 minutes from the gym. Can you just drink and get the gym? No, I have to go right now and I'm safe. No. You're body knows what time it is for sure. That was a good one. I haven't seen too many of those but um well over all just in genomy. I think a lot of people overthink overthink a lot of stuff. So she's like they like they're anxiety. You know, I mean, we'll come into it. Do you guys get any leggings? I do any more. I still do, man. I think that I actually I my goal because I've been training and I'm waiting for a new hip. I actually have to get a new hip. So I got these things. I have to train a certain way so I can train. But I try to do at least a set every leg workout that gives me anxiety because that is like, I feel like I'm not a bodybuilder anymore. If I let that go. Like that's the last that I'm clinging to a rope just hanging on to be attached to what I love. And if I don't have an anxiety set on leg day like a set of hacks or something that gets me a, oh fuck. If I don't have that, I just I don't know. I feel like I would be letting go of a part of the way like, see that little scene that's tab. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, we sure still got it. Yeah. Yeah. I don't want it to just drift away on me. You know, yeah. I think that's when you know you're in the middle of it is when the night before you start going, oh, that's tomorrow. Yeah. But in I, but you're looking forward to it. It's not a bad thing. But I just know tomorrow. Me and my friends are going to kick the shit out of each other. Yeah. And it's going to be horrible and we're so excited. I, I've told this story on the show many times, but Brett, you might love this. I went through a phase of a very specific time. It was, uh, I was 2000. I was getting ready for my first national's. And it was the off season. So I wasn't dieting yet, but it was like my first national's. I was training as mental as you could imagine a young kid in the year 2000, you know, watch a Ronnie video is in just myself. And, um, I started, I was puking after leg day. And I just thought, man, I just every single time I train legs, I throw up. And, uh, you know, people were telling me we're training too hard or you're doing something wrong. And I was like, well, shit, I'm eating like an hour and a half before and I'm hydrated. But I was thrown up on leg day. And then I started puking before my leg work. Oh, God. That's not good. I'm not a dirty thing. But that's not good. And, and my, my, my best friend who was also my training partner, he's like, what do you think's causing that? And I'm like, oh, man, I don't know. And then I realized I was just getting myself so f***ing anxious for legs. Like I was doing it to myself. I was putting so much pressure on myself and just, you know, you know, back then we're using the two and a half pound plates to progress every week. You know, you're looking in your added all logged out. And I had to like try to calm myself down because I threw up before my leg workout for like weeks, weeks. And I realized it was all here. I was just like driving myself over a cliff with anxiety. And it was insane. Looking back on it, I'm like, I can't know what I would have to do now to just make myself vomit. I'm glad you said that because I think that's more common than you think. I experienced that. I threw it up a few times over thinking the leg workout in the past. It didn't get a while back. Definitely, definitely. You know, there's one of those sessions where it's like, I got to hit these numbers today and you know, and then like, I'm a puga now. I was like, well, fuck, now I can't train because I hit puga so much. Yeah, this is not going to help me hit those numbers. It's not going to help me at all, but no, I think that's more common than you actually think, but it also like it just shows, but also shows how f***ing important this is to us, right? Yeah. It does, man. You know, people, if people listen to this and they're listening to a body-bind podcast and we're sending us saying that we're throwing up because we're so excited to train legs. You got the one of Swiss statements. Well, where are you at with that now, Brad? Is that like, because initially like the topic was like, things that you don't do. And I, you ask dust, you're like, do you guys get that? So where do you stand with it? Now, because you feel like, you know, it seems like you've got like everything's pretty well wired. You're cruising into the Olympia. And obviously, like when we see your training, man, you're absolutely nuts, but like talking to you right now, you're real chill. Yeah. And we did see Martin leaning over the garbage can. Yeah, we did see that. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Well, let's go. Pretty good. Yeah. No, like I said, like with this prep, it's been, that hasn't been an issue at all in the regards that maybe a little bit earlier in prep when you're further out now that now you're three weeks up. It just, it just, everyone's going to have those sessions, right? Like we're still trying to be the best in the world. So you're going to put too much pressure on yourself sometimes. But like it is about what like Ron said is what I started doing with I feel those feelings again. And like I said, it's been a couple of years since I've done that, but I still felt that again like driving in gin like, oh, I'm like, getting low anxious, you know, just stew and slowing it down, taking some deep controlled breaths, right? And then, you know, remind you of yourself where you're working for, right? And taking it slow out at the beginning, like a lot of, a lot of feeder sets to get going, sail down the mood. That's what it usually takes me as get like the first 20 minutes get the mind right? And then it'll follow after that. But I was just making sure, because I know you guys are like me and I knew Ron probably the anxious story I wanted to get. Got it out of him well done. Yeah, it's funny when I was in the heart of it. I actually learned that, because I never trained with headphones. I always had partners, so I wasn't ever listening to anything. And I found if I listened to things that were more relaxing instead of pumping up that which was in the gym, it would help. So like before hard sets, I would actually turn on the opposite of what anyone would think, just to kind of like mellow it down and just let my body do the nasty part, you know, take your brain out of it. You know, nothing like a little mermaid kind of get you going. Yeah. Put on the Lion King like exactly. That was what. Hey Scott, what's your phone number real quick? Oh, I'll give it to you off the air. How about that? I'll text it to you. That'll give you all the air. We have some wackos listening. So social, also. I'm going to show you your password. Yeah. Well, I'm going to send you a list is actually we're talking about this, but I had a really nice bloody nose set two days ago. Oh, great. Yes, we can. I'll get it. You can add it through the show. I'll drop you right in production. I'm going to talk about how our calmer and stuff now. And then you guys are about to see my nose explode. Conver more rational breadwagon. Let's go. Oh, let's go. Come on. Let's go. Come on. Let's go. Come on. Come on. Yeah. Yes. Oh, fuck. It's not. The one bleeding out of his face in the gym. But that column was on the how much more calmer I am now. And you get this. I think back to like, I remember like going to the front desk and being like, can I have the wind exit and then spraying the mirror or like in the blood off the mirror? I remember doing that, wiping blood off the mirror in front of the squat rack. I did that many times. And I was young. It was just a little bit. We have a little fuck. There's a couple of whites and smears. You know, it's kind of coming out your nose, but you got two reps left and then it's you just keep going though. I was going to use that on like dead lifts or I wish I'd rose. Yeah. Where it just keeps going. And then you post it and someone's like, blood pulling you like, yeah. I wasn't done. You just see this. If you watch closely, you just watch a pool. Underneath you do keep going and then you just rack the weight like nothing. I think my back to the gym owner, you know, I never filmed it or posted it. So he didn't need to know about it. Yeah, mind goes straight up. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's fine. Okay, I got some rapid fire stuff before we let you go, Brad. This is the, yeah. Oh, go ahead. Oh, yeah. Jim's story says we're talking about blood and stuff in the gym. Perfect. Stay longer. Yes. Yeah. Me's the craziest thing I've seen the gym with with an accident is actually in college football. It was like a max out there. You know, max out days in college. And those football guys are rough to the forms. Not perfect. So our big, our big boy, he was not offensively. I mean, he's actually a world strongest man now. I got a thing of his name, I'll think of the year. But he, that's why he does now. But he was so fucking strong. So we're all, you know, we're behind him. He's doing handclings, right? And he's painfully and probably 365 for a night. I don't know. He, I guess that he was our huge Yeah. So he was a clean and you know, like, you're on a platform and there's actually a mirror on the wall behind him, right? So he does it. It shows the hang clean up. It ends up falling back, going into the mirror falls into the mirror. The mirror shatters behind him. Pieces of glass from down. Stick into his traps. He just, he just stopped in his traps. He's standing just the bar. There's glass to get out. He like brushes it off. He's running down his back. And our string coach comes out and he, he, he comes running over. He's like, clean this fucking shit. But he got the glass in the as above the guy. It was hilarious. That was, that was badass. And a guy hang clean 400 pounds and then fall into a mirror and then watch the mirror fall into it. How long was his like a foot was it like a foot long piece of mirror. Stick your gun visioning like a foot long to use of glass just sticking out of his trap. Yeah, it was a good shot. Like he had a get a get stitches in there. He was great. It was what he got the wrap. Yeah, I want everyone to remember. That's right. I think I've got a sliver. It's a remakes his name. He's a world-strongest man now. Yeah. That's amazing. Okay. Yeah. That's a wrap. Okay. So there's some rapid fire. There's a like the, there's a basic bitch body building rapid fire, right? This is Starbucks cinnamon latte at Halloween or pumpkin spice. Like this is basic. Okay. Favorite cheat meal. Peanut butter and jelly burger. Nice choice. I've never had that I've seen it on the menu. I've never been daring enough to try it. I'm always like I'll just go with the basic burger. You know, it's unique. It's unique. Well, those got to try it and the believe in it doesn't sound like you'd want to trust me. No, it's a good thomba. That sounds like yeah. That sounds like saying like like chicken oatmeal. That's a weird combo. But for Ron he doesn't get anything on his burger either. So there is that. You know, Ron doesn't get to pay on this move forward playing. He knew it. Butter and jelly burger. Well, you get the most original burger and they do an egg and then on the bun it's peanut butter and jelly and that's all that it's it. I can't explain why it's good it's just so fucking good. So it's breakfast and lunch and it's a snack in a snack. It's amazing. It's amazing. Just kidding. It's a really throw me off. It was the road one more thing. You can tell I am at in Gmail on 12 weeks. Where would you go for that? Is that like your favorite spot? It serves that? Is that what that is? Or is that like a secret meal that you make at home? I made them before I make my own but no, usually I'll just find a certain restaurant that does it. You can it would dusty goes you can get those anywhere. McWoodie me. Any good burger places? A peanut butter is delicious. It does good burgers. I'm a f**k it. Okay, he is. No, he knows where the Mac and cheese is. He knows where the peanut butter is. What else does a man need? I will say this. I will say this. Dusty has never once taken me to a bad restaurant. I believe that. He's a beauty. You'll like this place. Works every day. Okay, most overhyped exercise bullshit. Why are people doing this? Do we should? Um, drives me crazy. Just traditional bench press to be honest with you. I think I think I think enough. I take that back, sorry, sorry. Because I'm just speaking in bodybuilding terms. I think the bench press is very important. Early in your career, especially if you're going to strengthen in for sports and everything too. Yeah. Let me think. You're stumped him. He's been stumped. He's comes back with a he a philosopher answer. They're all important and none of them are important. Well, I just for me specifically. I mean, I don't do obviously do much specific glue work because I think a lot of that can be hitting your training, right? So in like squatting. So I don't need to be doing the glue later and things like that. You can get all that from your lunges and your glue work like that in general. Siding a lot of that is just right. Blade or just people being lazy. They don't want to do the harder exercise. This is. I agree. Right. I feel that way about a couple of things that are really big right now. Most underrated exercise. Those underrated exercise. They have been doing this one lately. It's just like a shoulder press. So like I've been realizing, because I've really been trying to bring on my interior delts. And I've been switching it up from just instead of just doing your traditional pressing right. I've been doing kind of a cable press. So I'll get the cable right here and I'll press through this way. I can just truly fully feel my my interior delts. I just get in the zone right here and just keep pressing through here. And especially when dieting coming down, you know, getting getting that detail and stuff. But I've been just blowing those up lately. Just getting like I said like a big just a cable press right here, getting underneath it, pressing through the delts. Are you using one cable or two cables? Like what are you doing? One cable? One cable? One cable? One cable? Oh, what are you holding? Like a triangle bar? I just get the eye on that attachment. You may even there maybe a little bit longer. But just get close underneath your chin and just press through right here. Are you standing? Are you standing? I go seated. I go seated right up next to a cable. Yep. Or on your knee. You go on your knees, too. Oh, okay. That's like a good finish here. I never did that. Yeah. So I'll do that one and then I'll also do like the landline presses right here for chests. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The syphix interior and the specific mid-thick upper chest there. I have problems pressing overhead. Like I don't press overhead every shoulder workout. I do those double cable like interior raises. Mm-hmm. Those have been great. You should try this one. Like I said, it's not your traditional press but it isolates it better and I don't have as much shoulder issues, too. Do you ever do those John Meadows six ways? Yeah. I actually, I'm sorry. One quick story again. I remember going up to John one time because back when I was really into it and I was like inventing exercises I thought I was. Yeah. I mean, you know, you know, you make something but then you realize, oh, this was made like 30 years ago. But anyway, we meet up with John somewhere and I'm like, John, I've been doing this exercise. I call them swimmer shoulders. I got to show you this man. It's my favorite. You should have pressed him, right? You're like, ready to press him. It's mom swimmer shoulders. He's like, let me see him and I'm so I'm like, like, I love these. I, you know, you hit the rear. You hit the top. You and he goes, yeah, those are called six ways. And I go, and I have a YouTube video that's three years old where I'm demonstrating them. Yeah. Oh, so you've already invented this. Okay. That's when you brought that up. That's a true story right there. I was like, okay, well, yeah, I'm never going to try to invent anything again because it's already been invented. You're probably telling. I'm going to show him this. He's going to be pulled away. You know, take telling Jimmy Hendrix. I got a new chord. You got to show you. But those are good ones. Oh, man. Okay. Shout out to sponsors. Who's your crew? I know you got a whole like you got the pride hat on. I see. Yeah. Yeah, it's just fun. I mean, I have pounds on pounds of racing grinds, cream of rice, three days, so I'll have to do it. I'm of course gas and better body as you know, I've been with them for a long time and love everything they're doing over there. I am also with, and I was telling Dessie this other day, but I'm with Leeter formula as now. So this is they're based out of here and Houston, my buddy owns the company. And I'm actually helping him develop products now. So this is something new. I'm getting into. I'm really excited about you know, you got a little pre-workouts already, a couple different pre-workouts of stuff. But I'm going to be in charge of creating a protein ahead as well as an intro workout. I've always wanted to kind of do my own kind of like an intranity that John did. You know, I mean, like, yeah, I'm up with something that I truly believe in. So this has became a great opportunity for me to branch into the supplement side of the world that I always wanted to do too. So this has been good for me with Leeter formula as well as obviously, like I said, probably it's Revive all my team here and we're working on it out of your guys. Hell yeah. I love the body builder in business. Yes sir. I'm going through a little bit more. This completely off topic. No, she didn't expect me to ask this, but Victoria has been coming up with some good off topic questions for us. This has nothing to do with anything. But I want to get the answer from all three of you guys. Alright. What was eight mile a musical? Wow, you're right. I wasn't ready. I was not ready. Fuck. I only saw eight mile once. I can't remember how many actual minutes of music are in it because there's like a line. I thought only gets a musical. There's enough gap between songs. Okay. Okay. There was also no weird dancing involved with you. Yeah. There's the last line. Background people weren't dancing. Reality wasn't suspended while they entertained us. I'm from Detroit. So I, but I never saw it. So I don't really get to say Brett, you get the final answer in this one. Nine of us. I'm going to say, well, because if we asked them and they were the fuck off. Thank you. I know a musical when I see it because I like immediately horrified that they're saying five minutes in. Yeah, what have this happened? Yeah. I've actually bumped, we've, we've went to shows that I didn't know. Well, didn't you go to Joker 2? And yes. I could have left immediately. I didn't know Joker 2 is a musical to be so irritated. Nobody told me this. It was, yeah, never mind. Sorry. Sorry. I figured we were the air's the answer. And I watched the whole eight mile and loved it. All right. You guys, and I couldn't get out of the Joker 2 fast enough. Okay. Okay. We're in and on that note. There you go, Scott. Okay. Thank you. Thanks, Brett. I, extremely excited for the Olympia this year. There's going to be a lot of great things to pay attention to and a lot of guys that we know and we want them all to do well and kick each other's asses and you know. I feel like this has been like, doesn't it seem like every year there's like four or five guys that like drop out right? Usually I mean, this is where we're, we're stacked man. Yeah. We're rolling. We got four or five Mr Olympia's there. Like, this is going to be a fun show man. It's a completely different era than it used to be. Like, you know, with their used to like having multiple Mr Olympia's repeatedly in the same Olympia is not something we've ever had until this this era post 2020, you know. And it really changes the game and makes things super exciting. And you know, it must be exciting for all the other guys in the show too, because like, you know, when there's only one defending champion in the show, it's different than when there's like three or four Mr Olympia's you're like, I might be to a few Mr Olympias. You know, like, there's that some guys have that in their head. Like, I might be able to take out a couple of Mr. O's here, you know. So, yeah, I mean, I feel like me and I'll back six, seven years ago, like that's what Phil, that was kind of his, that's what made him who he was because he was the only one winning right? So, like, he kind of just kept it over everybody's a little bit of a head, you know. And like, there's almost a good mythical creature, but now, like I said you got these at all, be each other at least once, right? So, like it's it's very exciting. We have no one in six months. Yeah, right? We're swapping all over the place every few months. Really different game, man. So, it's gonna be exciting. I excited to see you guys out there. Hopefully we're in each year and stuff. So, yeah, yeah, thanks very much for your time. I mean, you know, we understand where you're at mentally and like you said, you hadn't done a podcast on that long time. So, it's really, you know, really appreciate that you hop on with us and bullshit for an hour and an hour and 14 minutes. Yeah. Perfect. Good times. Okay. And if I ever come to Houston to check out one of these gyms, I would absolutely make sure it was during the football season. I want to go to a game. So, I'll let you know. Let's do it. Okay. One of the couple weeks. All right, I'm going to week after the Olympia. Okay. Good. Good. Okay. Brett Welkin, everybody. Thanks for coming on the show. We appreciate it. Mr. Olympia bound. No one knows what he looks like. No. Brett Welkin, everybody. That was good. It was good to talk to him again, you know. Absolutely. We had him on once before. Didn't we like? Was some time ago. Were you on the show Scott? I don't even think I was at the time. No. No. Maybe you were on maybe I was half in the bag, Dad. Who knows? I don't know. Yeah. It's been a while, man. No, that's cool. He, you know, true body builder, hardcore guy. Easy to chat with. I hope he does really well. The O would be great to see him like, you know, show up. It's absolutely best ever. And knock some skulls, you know. That's what happened. Yeah. I'm excited. Yeah. Okay. Remember everybody like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. I remember I am mutant.com. Order your stuff. It comes really quick. You're going to be blown away how fast it shows up. Avoid people get your hardcore ISO, get your mind FK, and of course, everyone should get on the gear. Dusty and big Ron are your codes. Support it. Support the show. Support us. Thank you very much. Remember the Patreon. Think big Patreon. Thank you guys. You know, keep a producer home. We're going to take that running. And we appreciate all the support on all the shows. I like the think big channel. Scott, what's the update on the think big channel? It's just it's going great. Oh, we're doing really good, man. Everything in, you know, what to it's our community is freaking awesome. Just we get the coolest people commenting and supporting us in. We've got all the people who are unspotified now, too. That I was unaware of. So I'm been trying to put up polls on Spotify, too. Which is fun. So if you're listening unspotify, we could definitely appreciate the love over there. Leave us comments. And you can even, um, what is it? They have like a, you could leave us like a five-star review. Would be awesome. Unspotify. Because that'll help to boost us up so that other people find us over there. You know? Yeah. Yeah. Much appreciated. Okay. Remember everybody. It's just bodybuilding.

Basically, what you can do is give yourself almost a form of a forced repetition. So you start off, the first trips are all easy. There's minimal tricep activity, right? And the chest starts to fatigue somewhat. You're still got a chest focus, right? Uh-huh. There might be some tricep involvement that is progressively goes up. That would make sense, right? As the peck fatigues, then the tricep involved would go up. Now I'm going to try to do several more reps. I'm going to allow myself to bring the other muscles in. So the chest is pre-feteed and now the triceps that anterior delves can go. And but I'm still focusing on the chest, but now I'm just allowing so cap to sort of release the governor on the triceps and the other muscles. And that basically is like bringing in a partner. I got my brain, you know, I got my brain, you know, I got my brain. I see what you're going. And I'm bringing in a partner and doing, and doing forced repetitions, right? Because now the tricep or the tricep and shoulder are helping you to get another rep up, you allow you to then control that negative with the peck. Go beyond failure. Basically it's be an off-it. Final muscle connection failure. What's up guys? Welcome back to Muscle Minds with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McNeilie and all of our programming is brought to you by Scott's book, b-y-o-b-b-coach.com. That's b your own bodybuilding coach. We'll put a link in the description. Also if you want to get the hard cover or you go to the website and get the ebook, we are brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. And we are brought to you by trunutrition.com. Get all your basic bodybuilding supplements like protein, creatin, intro workout, all of that stuff. Use our code think to get 10% off on high quality third party test and supplements. You'll get a deal. Your support the shows and you'll get great supplements. We're also brought to you by supplementsourst.ca for Canadians. They do have great deals at change week to week on short dated, close out products, stuff like that. Scott, I am Frick and Pump to talk to you today, man. We had Stephon Kinzel, the boss of Outlaw on the show for it's just bodybuilding this week. And man, he echoed all the Frick and things that I've been talking about for the last five years about bringing up. Yeah, that's the way it feels. It was cool to hear, especially somebody, I have a huge amount of respect for him and the work that he's doing with bodybuilders, just incredible man. Plus not only that, but he is absolutely fricking passionate about bodybuilding, which he's a good dude. I like him. Anyway, we were talking about the idea of bringing up legging body parts and he was saying that like, or is for instance, that he gets really great contractions to the glutes. And no surprise gets these nasty striations they're peeled earlier than other body parts, but then his back has lacked those same striations. And it's not because he's not training his back often enough. I mean, it's not because he wasn't doing the right exercise. It had to do with activation. And the first thing that I hear from people, they tell me, what split should I do? And then the next thing is what exercises are like the exercise. And it's beyond that man, it's how are you activating the muscle? You've heard me say in this. That's my spiel now. And it was so rewarding to hear him saying those exact same things. So I guess the topic is really what? The connection you get to the muscle, the activation versus exercise selection, is that how we would put that? Yeah, it's funny. Like, as you were talking, I was imagining like the Scoda restaurant, you know, in the order sandwich. That's like it's not right. And you see, hand it back and they just go put more of the same shit on it that doesn't taste good. Yeah, it's still a shit sandwich. You just keep doing more or keep, you know, eat more quickly. It's still taste bad. You keep doing the things that aren't right for a muscle growth in terms of exercise selection or having a good mind muscle connection, activating the muscle. It's a skill set without it out. Learning how to activate the muscle. Then you're just going to get more of it. You're going to like run you so you keep doing what's you been getting, what you've been getting. Right? Yeah. And you'll end up growing. So yeah, that's the, at the topic keeps on coming up. I've got a whole talk on, it's called my muscle mastery. I've given. And there, it like at one end of the spectrum, we have the notion, for instance, of neuromocanical matching that certain muscles simply won't be activated when they have the appropriate leverage to do so during the course of the range of motion of certain exercises. So don't even bother. Right? Okay. And if, and also then if you have a loading curve that doesn't match the strength curve of that muscle, this is, this is like pretty important, really. This is how you can tell my experience if a machine or an exercise matches or feels good. You can just tell that feels good. I just saw a video, um, can't watch as a console on this yesterday. And I saw a video, um, Roman Flitz did a video, showing his chest training and demonstrated how he does. Sorry. I'm sweating so much. It's not as held in the house here. How he does. He sets his, what do you set your AC to? Did you, what do you say? It was 82. Yeah. I said it. Yeah. Yeah. I leave the door. Oh, that was, I, the doors right here. I sleep the door open for the dogs to come in and out. You know, on that part. And yeah, I don't want to try to cool AC would totally get over, overheated. But so he does his, his, and people can find this video. It's all in German, but it's on, um, on a sponsor's channel. And he does, he doesn't do a forward. He doesn't come to the center on his chest presses. He stays out while, and he stays out wide. Literally, he's almost pressing outwardly like this. Okay. Because that, that maintains tension just to keep it simpler without getting into the biomechanical leads, maintain tension on the pecs. Once you get to here, and you're, and you're just, meca, there's nothing you can literally, you're just holding, you've got a lot of the forces just compressing your, your, um, elbow joint. This, if you're swinging, you have a rotator cuff that's doing it's supposed to do. You, you're holding your shoulder joint place, but you don't have a pectension where you go out here, you do. So, okay. Instead of doing full range of motion like this and going to a lock out, Roman's been trading for a hot minute here. He knows how to, he knows from feel what a full rep is given how he's executing this style of doing dumbbell incline press, so that he just goes to here, and he goes, and he does them like that and he stays out of very, very wide. Okay. Yeah, I did that years and years and years ago too. You don't, he's using the, the 30 kilogram dumbbells. So he's like using like, eventually he went up his around 70 pounds. He could use a lot more weight than that. If he did this, and he's trying to bring the triceps in, but the idea is that he's, he's making this, it's sort of like a, um, a combination between a, a partial range of motion fly, partial range of motion chest press. Yeah. So that's why this by the way. Oh, yeah, they're all certainly, yeah, they're awesome. Try this. Yeah. Um, so, yeah, I mean, if you have limited, limited equipment, like he has a, he has a peck fly that gives you tension through the full range of motion. And it allows you to contract the pecks here in this short and position and have the, have the tension. So in this case, the tension, the force vector is this way. So you're, you're doing horizontal, roughly horizontal adduction at the shoulder joint at sort of a sort of an off plane. So you do those exercises, but why, why waste the range of motion, and not the full range of motion isn't a good idea. But if you have no attention to that last farther range of motion, and that's, that doesn't, not worth it. And people use due machines that way, he start off doing, uh, he has a hammer strength, um, leverage in-cline press, and he wasn't going to lock out because, okay, to get the full lock out, he just has to engage so much triceps. Right. Yeah. And then you make triceps into potentially a weak link. It's no longer a chest exercise. So he was doing that according to the mechanics of the muscle and, and the activation based on the loads presented by that particular exercise through the range of motion. So it's just kind of reiterate, we've got a side of neuromachanical matching that you don't have any choice in the matter as to how muscle is activated through the course of range of motion. And then you can selectively execute your exercises or choose exercises or find the right machines that provide a loading curve that matches your strength curve over the range of motion. So we talked about this, um, with having a converging chest press, the converging chest presses, they allow you to get full range of motion at the pack. So because you converge, if you just went here, then you'd be missing this part of the range of motion. Right. Okay. And the really good ones, sometimes you'll set up on a cam, or they're constructed such that it matches your strength curve here. And doesn't get super hard at the end where you have to start engaging your triceps. Yeah. Right. In order to finish that, it allows you to have a good mind muscle connection, dry with the pecs so far, and get a full range of motion with the pecs where you have contraction with the pecs and the exercises executed, predominantly with the pecs as the prime mover. That totally makes sense. Right. Yeah. Um, and that's ideal, what you'd have. So so those are biomarkin of cooking considerations. And then we also talked about, and this was in the podcast with Nick Walker, I think I've got an Instagram post. I'm sort of formulating still. But we, we, we move across into the more the mind muscle connection realm of things. And you can actually have some choice. These are voluntary contractions. Um, and this will learn skills. So I'll tell a story I have told, before a long time ago, this was like this, it was a memory that was, it was, it was, it was, we spent like a half an hour with this. I had a guy who wanted his dad had been doing construction his entire life, he'd retired. He was just kind of sitting around. Thank you probably remember this story. Brought him in, we're going to train biceps. We're doing back and biceps that day. And I could just tell he's just like he's, he's, he's basically doing kind of like, you know, sort of a, some sort of a clean to get the weight up. He wasn't able. He was really doing biceps curls, right? He was an everything that is blowback the whole thing. So let's do a concentration curl. Double concentration curl locked his elbow in on the inner side of his, of his leg and said, hey, let's do this concentration curl. And he's still doing this stuff, right? He's basically, he knows because he's picked up heavy stuff for his entire life. How to make it as easy as possible. So he's basically trying to do an isometric contraction, the bicep at the angle where he's got the most strength and then just leverage the thing up. Like, yeah, you know, like he's, like he's using some equipment that, you know, fork left or what have you. That was, and he could not get himself to not do that. I would literally was grabbing his shoulder and saying, stop moving your shoulder. Don't do this. I was nice to the net of course. But he just kept on doing this. I said, don't move that. And I said, remember, we're telling you, here a robot, right? Alternatively, once you get good and you look, you do this, people been most of people were listening already know how to do this. You can activate a muscle even during an exercise where it's not the perfect loading curve. It's not biomechanically ideal you can activate a muscle in range of motion and cause a contraction that produces tension, which would be our driving phenomenon for stimulating hypertrophy. Even though the loading curve isn't that great. So, you know, do we, would you want to take like that in kind dumbbell press that the Roman hat and then do a peck contraction and do this? You, you could, is that ideal? No. But we do know from the least one study where they did no load training. This is the counts at all study from 2016 that we just talked about, right? This is the far end now. Pureline muscle connection, no load at all. Basically, if you're thinking about, let's get the exercise that provides the perfect resistance curve through the range of motion. And then let's make, let's make an exercise that is just absolutely horrendous such that it completely misses the mark. Let's make it so bad that it provides absolutely no load throughout the entire range of motion. Zipo, that's what they did. Okay. No, the loading curve was just non-existent by contractions against care and they produced growth. The muscle growth in the short term, untrained subjects that was equivalent to a traditional three sets of 10 type of program. Just contracting the muscle. Of course, there were co-contractions of the triceps because you can't contract the biceps and not have elbow flexion unless the triceps resist that across the elbow joint. So they didn't get, they didn't get, get growth in the triceps that turned up the control group, lost triceps size. So something weird was going on there. There's no reason that should happen. But they were thinking they might actually get growth in the triceps, too. Triceps is produced a little more torque about the elbow. So it wasn't that, they were doing maximal effort. I think for like 30 seconds. Something like a each set. That's like the end of a DC training set where you do the post-negatives or partials. 30 seconds is pretty close to all out. There's sets where like that. It was actually effective time under tension. It was maximal effort throughout the full range of motion. They could do that because the triceps allowed it, allowed that torque to be produced around the elbow joint while they maximally contracted their biceps. Think about the fact that you can, at least with the biceps, biceps is an easy one. Getting around to the point here with with, whooes. Now back is just, always been for so many people, the hardest muscle to connect with. You can't see it. It's hard to feel it. We're kind of hard wired to first pull and move things to ourselves with our arms. Our back is there. It's funny. Always his name. You look sometimes at the backs of power lifters who were just brutally strong on a deadlift. Johnny Jackson is someone for instance. This is anecdotal evidence, but some of the best backs, you look at that guy and he's the guy that can deadlift the freaking house. Yeah, you absolutely know we can. Deadlifts on paper have horrible range of motion for the lats, right? And there's not an intent unless you, you can do this way, of course. You can do partial racked-ups and you know, squeeze the top and lots of bodybuilders do that. There's actually nothing wrong with that. But really strong deadlifters work their way up to really heavy heavy loads and they're not even doing the high rep. High rep deadlifts will just freaking destroy your lats. Oh, yeah. And then in that topic I've talked before, but some of those guys trained the lats because everything gets activated doing a deadlift in that way because they're training so hard and you're so much effort, right? And they're not even intending to have a mind muscle connection. I don't know if or is does deadlifts or does racked-ups, you'll be interesting to see. But those guys get activation because the exercise forces it to happen even though it's not intentionally a lat, a lat exercise. So it's funny that those guys without trying to get big backs and up getting big backs. I mean, they want big back extension strength, et cetera, et cetera. But it comes along for the ride. And you have guys who are trying to train the the lats who don't have a good mind muscle connection, which I guess is the case with Ours, according to Stefan, Kintu. And he just needs to figure that out some way shape reform. And it's funny. I mean, obviously, they probably have had, in fact, I've seen a video, a several years old, a scene of video of Stefan running Ours through a back training session. Yeah. And he said that you don't over time, he has developed that. Like, he's got it now. But that, yeah, that's the thing that when they get together, he mentioned that on the podcast, that they train back together to keep, you know, ingraining that. And the way that I've looked at it, it's got is that it's like, if we've done, like, your guy that was a construction worker, and he's lifted up, how many heavy things in his life? Like, we can't even count him, right? Or we take somebody who's done a pull down and never grown their lats from that pull down, but they've been training for a long time. I was that guy. I can't even count how many reps I did, but we can say thousands, you know, hundreds of sets in thousands and thousands of reps. It's like if we were walking through the woods, I would have worn a path through that woods. And every time that we walk in the woods, guess what I'm going to do, I'm going to go to the path because that's what I do. It's just the easiest way to get from point A to point B. But I think what we're talking about to like, to retrain that, it's like creating, and I'm not saying this from a scientific point of view, but I imagine that we're creating like a new neural pathway in our brain, do something different than we always have. And as a result, it's going to be the equivalent of not walking on that path, but instead taking, like, we have to move sticks out of the way, and the grass is long, but if we do it next week, it'll be a little bit easier. And the next week, it'll be a little or next workout, you know, it'll be a little bit easier. And eventually we'll wear that new path in, you know what I'm saying? And that's what I think that Ours has done now is worn that new path in, but, you know, it's a matter of time is what it comes down to, you know? Yeah, there's a saying in neuroscience, so it's sort of a layperson saying, but the work neurons that fire together, wire together. So that's how neural pathways develop. And they're the things that that's basically how our perceptions, our misconceptions, the reality come into being, we're used to seeing certain things, preceding certain things, and then we create stereotypes, and we have comforts, and so from a developmental perspective, we talk normal times now about your calves, right? You just tended to walk for whatever reason on your calves, and now your calves, so they developed in that way, but also neurologically, they're really, you just use them on pressing movements. You stand up on them when you're to excite ladders, all these kinds of things. I shrug. Yesterday, I'm doing shrugs, and I could feel myself going up on my toes. Yeah, right. You have all this, this neural outflow, and it's spill over, basically, as I turn this used sometimes, and you've got so much drive to try to lift the weight up that your calves get activated. Like the neural pathways say, oh, we're going up, let's activate the calves. So you get higher, right? It just has automatically. On the other side, if someone, for whatever reason, not to go down this pathway, but sometimes there's some ideas in neuroscience, in the cycle logical realm that there will be, in the body, we will manifest someone's psychological tendency to take things in and accept things or push things away based on their childhood and their family of origin. So if you see someone, I know someone who would maybe, at one point, looked at these pieces to try to understand someone's psychological makeup. If you see someone who's got a lot of really strong triceps, naturally, are well developed, they are used to pushing things away. And you can imagine their kids who are like, get away from me, push away, like, pushing the world away from them. That's how. That's extension types of things, right? Yeah. So I'm not trying to do a archer of psychoanalysis of yours, but the way in which probably biomechanically, your best advantage or the things that you do growing up, like who knows? I say this now, my lats, like most muscles have been torn, but back was always a strength for me. And I was a swimmer, right? Chest was always a weakness for me. We didn't hardly ever, we did pushups, like once in a balloon balloon was swimming, but I didn't do any until I started training, but I started swimming at a very young age. Lots of lats exercises. I always connect easily with the lats for me. Wasn't a problem. I grew up and training those motor pathways. There's a neuroplasticity that is available. You see this with like language learning, of course, kids don't even have to. You take a five year old and plop them into a new culture with a new language and they're up to speed in a year with the six year olds. You take a 45 year old, plop them into that culture. They never get up to speed with the native speaker. They never quite get there. Many times as they're just don't even even start. That's a function. It's various things, but part of it's neuroplasticity. It's harder to learn things to owe to you yet. I imagine Stefan and Oras are trying to overcome there to some degree is the fact that Oras has maybe been training his back, using his arms and his posterior delt, and his terries major, instead of using his lats. Now they're rewiring those things. That involves both active learning how to activate the lats better, as well as deactivate the other muscles that he's used to pull it. That was another point he made, too, is that those other muscles are going to want to, and you feel that. Those other muscles want to take over and let the weak muscle continue staying weak. There's a neat coat. It's a young up and coming German body builder. And there's a video of him training back. I was shook at my wrist last name. The German listress will know I'm talking about probably. Yeah, comment guys. Comment for us. Yeah. And they're showing he doesn't have good shoulder girdle flexibility. But there's a video of him training back. His delta, frigging gigantic. And he's trying to do a lap pull down. And they're trying to teach him how to use his back. And he's just going to like this. He's like going like that. And like, literally like this, you can tell. Because he can't do that. He just can't get there. And he pulls with this posterior delt. And he's so strong when they, I can't remember the numbers. He's doing the stack like this. He's beast. But when they actually got him to engage his lats and try to turn it off his boistern. He's using like 30 pounds or like three plates. Something like that, right? So 60 pounds, 66 pounds. Yeah. Hey, and the same can be true in our pressing with those shoulders, right? Like how many people start out with, you know, they're, they're first big body part that pops out for them is those delts. But then the chest is still concave. You know, that's like a super common, like early level of development look that you see in people, you know? Yeah. So all those things kind of need to be rewired. And you can do that. There's actually a study where they were able to ask people to turn for instance, it's not quite the same. But turn off the traps and doing a side lateral type of movement and just use the delts and people can do that if you ask them to. And there's two studies that I've talked about several times where they have people doing bench pressing. And they look at EMG across loads up to about 80% of a one-rette max. And they can selectively push more and activate the triceps versus the pecs up until you get really heavy. When you get to 80% then you have to start activating both those muscles. It's probably difficult, neurologically, to activate one of the other. Also, the weight, so heavy, you have to kind of call in all the muscles that are available because it's based on a one-rette max where you're using everything you can activate. So you're just encouraging on a combined strategy of activating both pecs and triceps. But at lighter loads and this is maybe what Stefan's doing with Ores, you can have preferential activation of the triceps, for instance versus the pecs. The muskletters little more complex in the back versus the posterior delt. I haven't seen a study where they looked at posterior delts. That was, that didn't really, that was a kind of a bizarre study. I don't want to bring that one to play. But if you got more posterior delt or terries or whatever activation and you're not pulling with the lats, you're going to have to learn how to deactivate those. And you can do that. It's totally doable. Touch training, like that can work for some people. I mean, I was doing this to myself the other day. Since my hip surgery, there's, I still have numbness on my lateral quad on both sides. That's a side effect that supposedly usually goes away in a year, but it's still there for me and my vassus lateralis is not, it's specifically, it's electrically afterfying. It's getting smaller. My limits still training legs. But I can just see that the overall shape amongst all the tears is, is morphing as the lateralis gets even smaller. But what I do when I do my occlusion stretches, so I get pull one ankle back and I'm stretching the quad, extending my hip out, so I'm getting the rectus for more stretch. And then I contract the quad. And this is how occlusion stretches happen in fortitude training. You do like in the closure stretch for your lap. You grab something at the angle what you want where you can then pull the lat into a stretch and contract it and you can contract it where you want to. In a stretched position. I could have a solid something, like a bar on a frame of a machine or something like that. And I could pull and I could see I'm going to try to make this a middle back effort for me. Or I could make it more of a little back effort and I'm probably going to grab higher and do that. When I was doing my quad stretch, for instance, I am intentionally trying to activate the lateralis and what I was doing this was just yesterday. I'm in that stretch position and I was tapping on the muscle. And there's like a study with cats, there's reflex arcs that come back because obviously I can tell where I'm pressing, although it is still numb. I can tell where I'm pressing. There's sensory arcs that then feedback is potentially this is sort of really sort of secondary evidence, but potentially to the motor neurons that then feed the muscle underlying the skin. So there's some neural circuitry that you can tap into. And of course, you're actually pressing on the muscle too when you're doing that. So this is basically just simply biophie back. Yeah, so that's something that can be done in this scenario where you got a muscle that just doesn't want to fire. Right? It's tap on that. It's a weight that suck her up and provide some biofeedback. This is where you need to be feeling this and that can help people then to activate the muscle in question. So yeah, there's so many trainers you see to a special human on women who get in there like touching everything like this is this is a licensed to go poking people or you inappropriate. Yeah, it's good those glutes firing. Yeah, it doesn't have to be a whole hand grass. Yeah, a couple fingers here, you know, get the upper glutes, you know, and you know, be professional about how you do it. Guys, let's talk about intro workout carbs and saving money. So like the past 10, 15 years intro workouts become super popular. It's a great way to support pre workout insulin use. It's great for recovery and it's great for endurance and those long workouts. Here's the thing it's really expensive. It's not only expensive for us, it's expensive for supplement companies. They really don't make a lot of money off of it. That's where true nutrition comes in. So true nutrition, they're not only a retailer. They're also a manufacturer. They're actually making a lot of the products that you guys are already buying from other companies. So just think about it. You're going to cut out the middle man. The only thing you're going to miss out on is the fancy labels and the branding. Outside of that, you're getting the exact same high quality products, but you're getting it directly from the source. If you're going to pay for the price of highly-branched liquid dexterin, ensure that you're getting 25 grams per scoop, not of a mix of carbs, but just of highly-branched liquid dexterin. We can mix the other stuff in later. You know, use our code, think, get some savings plus it's like voting for us. Let's know that you support what we're doing. But so yeah, so that's we have that spectrum. We have like the notion that you have no choice in the matter. The muscle will just be activated based on the neuromocanical matching principle and biomocanics. And there is certainly something to that. I think if you take people in the wild who are untrained and say, hey, do this exercise and just try to do it. They're obviously, there has to be some, I mean, it's not just random which muscles that cross that joint get activated. So function of their moment arms and of course of their physiological cross-sectional area. So what they're relative, I mean, one thing interestingly enough is we, there's much more than just the biomocanics to this. We have the relative size and the muscles of the physiological cross-sectional area. If you've got a really big muscle and a really small muscle, you know, you may say, well, the smart and move is to use the really big muscle. Unless maybe that really small muscle at lower and typically at those lower force levels, the dated activity, that really small muscle has lots of type one fibers in it. It's very endurance oriented. So maybe during day-to-day walking or just going upstairs in those sorts of things, that those fibers or that muscle that extends the hip, I'm speaking just theoretically here, thinking of a strategy like the normal strategy might be to use the smaller muscle. Actually, interestingly enough, in rats, this doesn't, I've never seen this in humans, but in rats in the calf, there's a section of the gastrochneemius, the big calf muscle, yeah? That is red and then there's another section that's white. You can see you can separate those two and they're often, in the older studies, at least they've been often used or analyzed separately. White gastrochneem and red gastrochneem, red is endurance oriented. It's got more mild, low-bent and capillaries or mitochondria type one fibers and the white is the opposite. Literally at low intensity efforts like running a slow running on a treadmill, you will use the red gastrochneem it's used first and then the only when you speed up and sprint does the white gastrochneem. So literally a singular muscle has in this case kind of a low gear and a high gear based on speed and effort. So that the relative fiber composition of different muscles crossing a joint plays a role too, because we've got hennaman size principle, it's going to call on motor units based on the effort level that's required to balance all the joints forces across the joint and as things get effort, more effortful across the course of a set, you're going to have a strategy allows you to continue to do those repetitions. So for instance, now pulling this back to like, or let's say he uses his posterior delts instead of his lads. I don't know if he's past that now but in the past, right? Yeah, that's just how we did it or it's all the other muscles other than the lads. Well he starts doing this exercise and he's like first few reps he's good he's got a good mind muscle connection, right? The efforts levels are low and then when the set starts to get harder his brain just says naturally this is a smart strategy to continue to do repetitions other muscles need to be called into play, right? So those other muscles that aren't the lat that are probably already because he's been using them for so many years in the course of his lifetime and in training up to that point those muscles are better equipped to move those loads because they're larger and they're better trained. So the mind muscle connection gets lost when the efforts get high. Yeah and that's the hard part when you get into that crucible and those last few reps and I think I heard from the quote from Stefan, he was talking about that's you talk about what is intensity in triass. Yes, you have effort. It's in those final moments of a set where the effort is getting the maximal where you're trying to maintain the mind muscle connection on the muscle you're trying to target and that's what good exercises, good good machines will allow you to do. You don't have to try to turn off the muscles that your body and your brain in particular is trying to bring into the movement. The exercise just allows you to do that because it doesn't have a bizarre resistance curve or what have you. But touch training will help with that and that's where you really like have to be focused at the beginning it's easy when the reps are easy or with lighter load no problem. But at the end there when your body says it's like this is what happens when people start to squat, they're squatting nice and deep and they're upright and then all said and they start leaning you know and they start cutting short and the other range of motion. Body is trying to do the I think the term was like that that intensity is what is truly exhausting. To be able to use that target muscle all the way through until you've exhausted that you can only do so much of that and then he went on further to say like so I mean realistically if that's what you're doing how can you do that more than a couple sets. And it makes sense. You can only do that so many times before it's like man I'm done with this and you just know because I guess that's kind of a different topics but you know I almost feel like you know how do you get that volume down that's a question that I think people come to us about is like well if I'm doing four sets how do I do less volume how do I know that it's enough you know and the best way I can say is like you just you know like I've done you know sets and I know like am I going to be able to get a third set that's going to be like of the quality of these last two man. No I'm I'm shot like there's no more out of this. Yeah yeah yeah you'll see your rep structure especially if you're going to feel you're seeing your rep drop off and then if you're true to yourself and you say okay I'm going to try a third set and you know I got 12 reps before I'm going to hopefully I'll get 10 and you get to like six and you're like okay you're doing all sorts of stuff you're skirmering around you don't have that you can't you don't you just lost your focus you just know it's not there that's right there okay time is on melts you just you can if you're honest like that I lost my focus lost my train you know when you lose your train I thought right because you know you just can't think of the next thing to say it's just not there right you know if you're honest you know when you've shifted your mind muscle connection has been lost and you're just trying to beat the logbook right we're just trying to get the reps I still think to some degree as long as you're not going to injure yourself in terms of training effort people can go too far right you can also be like oh they don't overload their overload the psychological aspect of learning how to be effortful and intense and discipline during those sets so they do the set and this is where you know reps and reserve you know could be poorly estimated it's like oh I'm starting now I'm done that's it I'm not going to like I'm not going to not going to have to shift it into the next psychological gear to stay laser focused on the target muscle I'm trying to hit and people just will just stop so sometimes in order to you there is a whole other realm of effort when you do go past perfect form perfect mind muscle connection you learn how to weather the metabolic storm so to speak of you know especially high rep stuff or large muscle group stuff where you like you know you feel like your head's going to explode you're about to die or you end up having to lie in the ground for two minutes afterwards where you throw up there is something that can be gained from pushing there and sometimes the reps do get a little sloppy not that you're trying to do sloppy reps and an ideal sense you're able to have just as much effort with the perfect form at the same time but in root sometimes you need to do you know call it over speed trading you know this one thing sometimes I don't know if they do this with sprinters like people as soon as we'll try to run downhill where they can have faster leg turnover because leg turnover obviously plays a role you know so but there are forms a little bit there are not that's not the same you don't run 100 meter dashes on a down slow pride yeah faster leg turnover I don't even know if this is even used I'm just using this as a analogy so okay it sounded like a thing like I was doing it has been a thing I don't know if that's the current state of the science of how people do sprint training anymore okay right they also you can get perish parachutes you know that slow you down so you have to work on your leg drive there's all sorts of things but the idea would be then if you really learn how to just push hard in general despite the fact that your mind muscle connection you know might not be perfect there's something to be gained there in terms of mental resilience as long as you remember that the idea is to hit the target muscle not to just to drive it unless you're just want to drive yourself into oblivion and just to stroke yourself some people that's kind of why they go into the gym is for the therapeutic side so to speak and they don't have much of that but that's a good thing and for a weak muscle group I think it yeah it makes sense like it if you let's say quads here weak muscle group and you're using squats you know and you've just doing sloppy heavy ass partial range of motion squats you've been doing it for years and you're not going anywhere your quads aren't increasing got to probably try you've you've you've you're training yourself into absolute oblivion you're throwing up after squat workouts you're using just massive poundages but you don't have the right exercise you don't have the right my muscle connection with with this approach to target your quads then that's an extreme example of kind of pissing in the wind that would be a case where someone could go okay that's not working for me let's go to the other side try to find choose exercises where I can't pull my lower back into it I'm going to do some comp on exercises maybe maybe get on a hips led or I start doing unilateral stuff or what have you and then focus on the mind muscle connection focus on full range of motion find the right loading curve for the exercises you should use et cetera but anyway my point was don't take it too far and just like say if I have the slightest inkling of a thought that maybe I'm losing my mind muscle tension oh this has done it's like no that's the effort for part where you have to sort of overcome that little sorry German the word is shithead of whoant that little piglet in the back your head to mind that says oh just give up buddy just stop it yeah yeah yeah and I think that's maybe kind of part of the fear of anybody who would be against the idea of really trying to focus on that target muscle because it would be so easy for somebody to say like oh I lost the connection I'm done you know and they just they they don't they don't fight for it yeah I'll take it a step further to those got I remember something I learned from big Dave Smith in the chest press was you know one of my issues with that movement was not going deep enough and at a certain depth you know as those elbows get low enough I'm no longer able to recruit the triceps and the shoulders the way I can when everything's kind of pushed further up so it is thought to me was that you want to activate the or start began the exercise with that target muscle knowing that the shoulders the triceps are going to get recruited as you are pushing up and from there you can kind of like not build momentum but kind of add drive into it control drive into it as everything does get into that stronger less vulnerable position but also so it is thought was like well you are doing a compound movement so you are going to use the shoulders and the triceps and the chest press even if you're trying to target the test but if you focus on that target muscle first activate that target muscle first and that's what I then you know there's an element of like being able to have what's the word I'm looking for like having faith then you know what I mean that yeah that my body is going to do what I need it to do right I guess and and I kind of applied that to my back training as well with that lap pull down because I can't just only isolate the perfectly isolate just the lat but I can try to focus on the lat you know but at the end of the day everything else is going to get worked to I guess there's there's there's there's an arn and science to it I think all right and initiating the the the movement with the target muscle like David said like you just said absolutely and can continue to do that like if you if you paralyze your triceps right and you try to do a chest press like that you just drop the dumbbells under it head it wouldn't be okay fall way out like yeah I mean you have to it has to be some it has to be some arming engagement right to some degree yeah but also throughout the movement too and this is this is sort of the next level to having like the appropriate mind muscle connection throughout the movement is you're doing the chest press your focus is still on the chest it still pecs I mean this is why why Romans way of doing things is really kind of brilliant because you just you just avoid the range of motion where it could get iffy the range of motion isn't is what was brought up in up max mytson brought this up in a reaction video is like some people are going to end up they're going to do a reps like this right and they're going to call those reps because they're just just doing it right Roman is is is honest he's been doing this he's not going to short he's going to get full range of motion and he'll push through to that same range of motion like a machine like a piston same rep first rep looks like the last rep but there is something to say basically with what you can do is give yourself almost a form of a forced repetition so you start off the first reps are all easy there's minimal tricep activity right and then the chest starts to fatigue somewhat you're still got a chest focus right there might be some tricep involvement that is progressively goes up that would make sense right as the peck fatigues then the tricep involved would go up and you could eventually get to the point where now it becomes more of a tricep movement because the chest is so so fatigue so this is the art is as you continue towards failure you get to this point where it's like okay I'm no longer doing these repetitions with my chest this is becoming a tricep press and the ability to do that actually is amplified if you've done a good job of leaving the triceps out during the first part of the set because now they're fresh right so now now you you could and and I'll tell you what strategy something I do just to shorten training times this sort of thing I do this a lot it's kind of people could try this at home just for shits and grins I will do sets where I do a perfect mind muscle connection I'm training I this is all in internal focus right and then I end the set there and then I say now I'm going to mechanically it seems the same now I'm going to allow myself I will transition if you're mocking that would be the end of the set I got 11 reps or whatever right yeah now I'll transition now I'm going to try to do several more reps I'm going to allow myself to bring the other muscles in so the chest is pre-fateed and now the triceps and anterior and delves can go and now I I can get maybe half as many reps sometimes when I do that depends on the exercise the day and how far I'm in the workout right okay and but I'm still focusing on the chest but now I'm just allowing so cap to sort of release the governor on the triceps and the other muscles and that basically is like bringing in a partner I got my brain you know I got my hands you know your going and I'm bringing in a partner and doing and doing forced repetitions right because now the tricep or the tricep and shoulder are helping you to get another rep up allow you to then control that negative with the pack go beyond failure basically it's beyond line muscle connection failure no that is 100% what we do and I hadn't I had never put it into that context before but you are so absolutely right that that is the key to taking that intensity in that target muscle to the next level it really is man and I think that's like for someone to do that like because some people like we're pretty obsessive as bodybuilders like I want to make sure I got everything out of that set is just say okay here's what we're going to do I'm going to do a perfect set with the mind muscle connection until I start to feel like I'm not doing that and I and I reached that internal out the sense that this is now becoming something that's only going to continue to find start bringing in the accessory muscles auxiliary muscles in a way that doesn't really target the muscle I'm trying to hit right but now I'm going to do the four straps and then just bang them out and so then you get the scraps that itch afterwards and you do get some effective time-undertension I think in the target muscle because it still has to be involved absolutely yeah so but then but then I think in doing that if someone were to do that regularly and I and I've been doing this for years this way just sort of to kind of keep myself in check right okay what's the difference when I'm just with an external focus just doing the exercise and just bringing everything in like a power lift or wood versus with an internal focus and there is a study from Brad shown field where they where they had better muscle growth with an internal focus and he was with the biceps again versus just trying to move the weight through the range of motions versus trying to focus internally on getting a good biceps contraction yeah and then I can see that start difference right because I do it one way I trust myself to go to failure in that sense and then I then I just release the governors on the other muscles and say okay wow and you see the start contrast because literally I mean you think well you were just sandbag and like you know that failure points I was just doing this very differently it was a very different type of internal focus type of execution neurologically and then I just went to an external focus and allow the other muscles to come into play and you get four straps with that target muscle essence I do that on the end of a workout if I wanted to do more it with my you know training in my home gym I've got a bunch of great stuff but it it is limited to a degree and I was told in skip and Andrew about this exercise not too long ago but I you've made me realize kind of a step further I'm almost doing kind of like like force reps that by doing these controlled negatives I'll put the shoulder saver pad on my straight bar on in handclin and I did this first with Shelby years back and it would be at the end of the chest workout where then drive it up hard lock out at the top and then a slow controlled pack you know all pack focus negative back down to the chest dead stop it on the chest drive it up hard all the way up to the top and then slow controlled four like four second negative down to the chest dead stop and it is it's it's an everything push up and then it's a chest up there yeah and you try to bring it up and then you're making using your chest to lower it yeah and it's not a lot of weight you know and you know if I'm using like a plate per side like that's that's difficult you know to do these with when I'm already freaking taxed you know they with them with the amount of squeeze and control that I'm trying to use so it's also a situation where like I'm not really a big bench press barbell bench press fan I will definitely mess up my shoulder with that but with the the weight that I'm using it's like I can push that up as many times as I want you know I always have control of that another fun sort of it's kind of a leverage drop set style strategy reminded me of are is to do dumbbell flies and maybe cut the range of motion short all over the Roman until you get to failure and then go to push flies or press flies or you press up oh yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah so you go to failure with the flies and then you just help yourself up with the press and you could you could do those in time to go and until you go to eccentric failure basically yeah yeah those are brutal too yeah yeah that would be that's right yeah so yeah all what you said like you're basically you're you're switching modes in fact in the brain the areas of activity in the motor cortex responsible for concentric versus eccentric contractions for a given muscle group are different yeah there's different or they're not he's there's the same neurons that well there's a different motor recruitment pattern you have to use using less fibers on an eccentric than on a concentric all of the things being equal but there's different activity patterns up in the brain as well controlling all of that so you can see that you can see different areas of activity so you're and you're doing this consciously with that exercise you just described like you're like okay get it up just lift it up you know try to set shoulders whatever and then I'll do the controlled mind muscle focus on the pecs during the eccentric it's like okay that's done switch switch over yeah come the spotter on the way up and then I become on the lift or the way down yeah absolutely yeah yeah so I hope that I hope that everybody listening right now appreciates this conversation because this was freaking deep stuff if I've just got I've been doing this for a long time right and I think about this stuff every day in deep detail and I am still learning every time we do one of these shows and it's it's putting pieces together of the things that I'm already doing it's giving me ideas of new things to try I really do hope that you guys are really listen to this and I hope you tell me are you are you guys getting this away I'm getting this because there's some good stuff in here yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah let's get a hell yeah in the comments if you guys are connected to this one the thing I was gonna say is the question one might ask based on which is talked about is are you the lifter or are you the spotter okay are you trying to lift the weight with the target muscles are you just trying to make sure the weight moves from point A to point B which is what a spotter would do is make sure you get out of the hole where would have you you're the you're the spotter on that exercise just describing getting up and you're the lifter on the way down are you the lifter throughout your exercises or are you basically more like a spotter you're just doing whatever it takes them like you see people doing these you know look look look at the guys bench pressing you know eight plates beside and he's got two spotters and everyone's lifting the weight for him right are you lifting and weight with the muscles that you intend to lift it with that you intend to make grow or are you basically like those spotters that are just pulling the weight up and down for you along the way yeah so yeah that would be even like a t-shirt are you the lifter or are you the spotter yeah yeah most things like that we've burnt through a whole show talking about this one topic you realize that we've been criticized I saw a criticism of that somebody was like a whole hour on Nick Walker's training I think guys and I forget what was but someone else made a very nice comment this is exactly why I tune in to muscle lines because it's because it's a deep dive so you need to put in the little warning you know this is potentially a deep dive and you can be wasting cognitive resources if you try to listen to the old thing so watch out be aware you're rancored and drained afterwards or maybe inspired hopefully the latter yeah yeah hopefully hopefully that's it you know and and I'll tell you what man this level of thought isn't for everybody because we're not all in the place where it makes sense yeah you know what I mean yeah yeah I mean that's okay too yeah I don't want to I mean sound like intellectually up it or something like that but yeah this is there's a certain you have to have to develop a taste for this somebody will don't give a rat's ass about thinking things through with this detail but this is why I call it bodybuilding brain candy right yeah to some degree this is just it's candy for your brain like it's it tastes good it's yummy it lights it all up is it necessary is it all that nourishing you do you have to be listening to this no for some people it's too nourishment I think because yeah they're like there are a tinker like me there's some people just want to drive the hot rod and there's some people who want to tinker with and and be their own mechanic so to speak be their own bodybuilding coach I might be somewhere in between where I like the intuitive got process of figuring it out but then I can come to a conversation like this and get an explanation for why the thing that works works for me um um um science there's both art science yeah yeah that's really what it is that's really what it is guys I appreciate you tuning in man yeah I was saying I'll say this is interesting because sometimes the scientists and the artists speak different languages or so it seems but they're they're they're they're they'll grow up in the same country and the same city they're speaking the same language they're just haven't learned how to communicate with one another or open their minds for the possibility that they're living in the same universe right so I had a professor in college photography professor and he said photography is the bastard child of art and science and it really is because you're using you're using math equations and in exposures and chemical reactions either chemical reactions from the light to the silver haloid crystal not anymore now we're hitting digital sensors um and chemicals in the dark room you can modulate those chemicals the amount of time that something is left into a developer you know all these things there it's all using science to get a to you to create something to create this piece of art to communicate something and man I've always thoughts got that we do the exact same thing in bodybuilding be it in the gym be it in our nutrition be it with PEDs like all of this stuff it's the bastard child of art and science it really is yeah it Robert Pyrrsy wrote the book Zen in the Art of motorcycle maintenance I love that book yeah so you know about this um is notion of quality which is sort of this in ethical characteristic and he talked about it I think initially in the book in the context of essay writing he was a college professor and he get essays and sometimes he tried to grade those objectively you know yeah and like this is you get a 92 or you get this grader what have you and sometimes there is an an ethical quality that you can sense that you would just see as when observing a piece of art right you see that photograph and there's just something to that this this is certain quality that we as human beings can perceive and I see it now for instance in at least at this point in some of the things that are AI generated you see letters there's just sort of a generic quality although it sounds it's grammatically correct it sounds right it seems right but there's just a quality that's missing there's a there's a it's lacking in personality in some way shape perform and so are we getting all philosophical here now but but bodybuilding is like you could figure out you don't have to have you know read through this science to figure it out the things we're talking about you know the you know brain activity during concept except you could you could you could just basically intuit those things over the course of time like one of the things Roman mentioned that is that he has figured out because he's been very meticulous with looking at what works and what doesn't work is that he benefits more from higher reps when it comes to chest and dealt okay it's not the only person with that but that works for him right that runs counter to the idea that there's being profit based on some some for various reasons that five date reps is where you should start off with well that's a good starting point I think anyone saying like that's all that would work but Roman figured out would work through him because he's an art his bodybuilding artist right yeah who also keeps meticulous records and knows exactly what he's doing so you could you could intuit all those things and come to your own conclusions as a pure artist but what what I kind of find interesting is I have kind of an artist mindset and I look into the science to try to see how that information flows into the in the way which we perceive reality as bodybuilders that this works and this doesn't work yeah and try not to cherry pick too much I do pick studies knowing the study suggests that this phenomenon there's a reason for this phenomenon that people perceive works better than this this it's evidence that it does it does a work for that way for everybody know but yeah you're also quick to point out the opposite too in that study show you guys make a decision at the end which really frustrate their listeners sometimes yeah yeah that that's I mean that's that I was listening to something this morning it was a German kind of a documentary and like there's some evidence that's coming into being suggesting that some of Einstein's theories need to be devised or amended to some degree right okay and the whole idea was that even at its very nature we're never going to know how the universe actually works you know and our theories are always going to have to be updated that's that we just we keep on kind of approximating as best we can given this basic premise that we actually are not living in some sort of an artificial simulation right now we could all be living in a matrix that's just set up to make us to give us these fanciful notions that we can figure out how the universe works but that's kind of the fun part of it is like I've got the lab of my own body and the gym and you know tinkering in my garage and then I can also go online or I can go into the science in this case and figure out oh this is how this works and this is how this works and I can bring that back to my personal lab and that back in fourth between those two worlds is where where I dance and play and draw and paint and sculpt so to speak with the information I present and with I do what I you know used to do more actively before I'd be myself to a pulp when I was you know actually engaging in competitive bodybuilding at the same time so but yeah there's there's art like the science is really never less than I'll just say because I've grumble for a while here but is people like say we proved this was science this is something that Gary Dudley mentioned to me is like you really don't you have mathematical proofs physics might say we've proven the existence of this particular particle because we we found it at one particular so that's sort of our proof but otherwise science is just approximating what may happen or what did happen but it's not proving it's just substantiating notions or or then refuting those hypotheses potentially and that's the beauty of it is like you're always in the state like I don't really know but hopefully we're mirroring some semblance of what we could call a truth yeah yeah and it's only when I think people are honest with how they present the science that we can understand that versus I think the pack which is a whole other topic the whole sales package of follow the science follow the evidence base this is how you will know beyond a shadow of a doubt that this is exactly what you need to do here is the formula and go you know yeah that's much more easy to sell than some of the stuff we talk about yeah that is guys we appreciate your tuning in thank you for being here and like like Scott said give us a hell yeah if you connect it to this one and you've figured something out or you connected something something you were already doing in the gym and you're like oh that's exactly what's going on here let us know or if you found something new that you're gonna give a try to and definitely check out b y o b b coach dot com that Scott's book or you can get the hard cover up with the link in the description for that over Amazon and of course supplement source dot c a four Canadians great deals that change week to week and close uh close outs and short dated products uh true nutrition dot com use our code think on all your basic body building supplements you're gonna need protein get it from true nutrition use our code think to get 10% off and to support our programming and of course thank you to everybody from patreon you guys are freaking awesome we appreciate you load us up with questions for patreon on that next episode and we got a bunch of more stuff coming up on muscle minds guys for another episode of the program i'll see you soon thank you Scott as always we're welcome as always and you guys have a nice day in the live stream thanks for joining us oh yeah for sure we have a lot of comments didn't we that was bad at we did

and Nick May have been training doing more and feeling wrecked, then was optimal for him at some point in time. He's still making progress, but he was just wasn't making optimal progress. His progress could have been better, or at least now for sure, his progress would be mill or be minimal or less than it currently is, as he's apparently seeing. And he's optimizing because he trained so hard anyway by having more reps to reserve, getting a more volume. And he still creates, you know, obviously Nick's got pretty good genetics, I think, for bodybuilding. His muscle, personal muscle genetic code is such that resistance exercise creates hypertrophy. Like it just, he puts that in, it's like gas to a fire, right? Yeah, yeah. So it's going to happen. And then someone else, maybe who's less genetically gifted in that sense, they may need to cultivate the signal with more with more sets taken to failure. And or you get signal whatsoever. But then that means that they can't do as many sets because you can't recover from as many sets when you train failure all the time. Let's not guys, welcome back to Muscle Minds. We've got Stevenson. I'm Scott McNally in all of our programming. Well, it's brought to you by TrundleTrition.com. Use our code, think over there for additional savings. I just got another bag of the cookie butter, weigh isolate, the cold filter weigh isolate. I love that for a conflaver. Use code, think over there for all your basic bodybuilding supplements. Get some additional savings, 10% off plus help to support our programming. We're brought to you by Scott's book, byeobcote.com. And that's b-your own bodybuilding coach. You can get the hardcover linked in the description in Scott, will sign it for you or you can get the ebook at the website. Well, that both of those options down below. Of course, we have timestamps down below, check that out. And if you are new to our content, then definitely, we'd love to have you along for everything we have several shows that come out each week. So like, share, subscribe, comment, and as Dusty would say, definitely ring the bell. And let's put not least supplement source.ca for Canadians and Patreon. Thank you guys for all your support over there. We try to tackle all your Patreon questions. Scott, we started out with no plans for the show as of yesterday. And now we have so many plans for the show that we are not going to be able to do it all. And one of the so many plans. No way, not even class. We've got a lot of stuff here with problems. I'm excited for this. So years back, I remember it was literally like several years. Maybe five years ago, we did an episode about squeezing the muscle. This past week, we did a reaction to a Nick Walker training video. And he talked about how he's found this additional benefit and squeezing the muscle. I know you've got the clip there. Let's let the people hear that. And I know you've got a lot to say on this topic. OK, here we go. I love the scots in charge of the tech stuff today. All right, should I make that any larger? Isn't good enough? That's fine. Yeah, that's good. Oh, yeah, I've grown the best. I've stayed around her. And I think anyone can say whatever they want, they create detail. Yeah. That's where I think I need to go back a little bit. Yeah, just a little bit, maybe. Yeah, it does a lot. You have to. Legs is always high-rock. Yeah, it's good. Any leg exercise, no less than that. OK. I stay around 12, 15. 12, 15, 3, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20. No matter what, no matter what it is. I just feel like I've grown the best. I've stayed around her. And I think anyone can say whatever they want, they create detail. Yeah. That's where you're going to hold science, bullshit. Science says, pleasing the muscle. Does it bring out detail? I call bullshit. It's working. It's hard to size. Right. Well, early, I've four or five weeks out. I think I said it. Well, I didn't let that go for just a second. Oh, because there's a little bit more. A little bit more. OK, here we go. It was six. Maybe. Is he want to go back to Jersey? I stopped worrying so much about how much weight I was doing. And I would just keep the negative, but I was just clucking squeeze. Squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze. And that's why I like my back to show detail to the poor. And then you see Derek, who's in shape? He's condition. Not as much detail as mine. I think that's there. And I think that's there. Yeah. It was so good. It was just putting the muscle. Right. Those guys are always, they did a photo shoot with Samson. Yeah. Like two years ago, like in the week, the few days after the Olympia and they had, they were kind of having at it. There was an exchange there that people could probably look up. And they were just kind of having at one another. So I think we can go back here. All right. Yeah. Hell yeah. And so yeah, I thought back because we did an episode, man. And like I said, I think it was like five years ago now. We talked about this. And I know that you had a study talking about some people that were squeezing the muscle versus training with traditional reps. And they weren't even using any weight. They were literally just like squeezing the muscle. I would love to hear you go back into this and see what else you have to say. Yeah. It's the no-load study. Counts at Al from like five or six years old now. Maybe 2018, I could look it up. But people can find that they want obviously. I rarely get these increased, but if you want, I'll send to the references. Let me know. And they basically compared traditional resistance string. This is just for the elbow flexors with just doing a contraction. I think it was a maximal contraction where they just move the extended and flexed at the elbow against no load. And they got strength gains in the traditional group and literally nothing. And the squeeze group will call the no-load training. But the muscle growth was equivalent in those two conditions. So they got no strength gains in the squeeze group. But muscle was just as big as the guys who did get strength gains and did traditional rise. They got the same hypertrophic effect. So, or muscle increase effect. We don't know what I might don't imagine there's any hyperplasia involved. But I avoid that which are muscle hypertrophy sometimes. So it's just kind of what you'd expect. They did not train against the load. They weren't imagining. There's actual studies where people just do visualization training against the load and you can get strength gains that way. But in this case, they were doing something non-specific to training against the load where you would expect some strength gains and then get the strength gains. So that's not a big deal. The interesting thing there, and I mentioned this study last week on a podcast, it comes up. Maybe it was a couple weeks ago on different podcasts, is if you can produce at least this gives us some evidence that just contracting a muscle as lengthening and shortening against zero load. So if you have a scenario, let's say where you just have picked out the completely wrong exercise for training a given portion of a muscle. Let's say it's the back. You mentioned back. So it's the lower lats. But you have a really good mind muscle connection with your lower lats. You've done a lot of posing. You can sit there. The list of this is, I consider and contract my lower lats. I can just make the muscle move because yours the part you're doing it. Yeah, that can be taught. So in the mind muscle connection is something that's been investigated. There's actually a study from Brad Schoenhill, where we had an internal locus of focus or internal focus. Yeah. External moving the load and with the internal focus, I actually had better muscle growth. I think just in the upper body was one of the two muscles they studied. Another wife was equivalent. So it's just focusing internally in this case, just contracting a part of a muscle, even though biomechanically it might not be getting an optimal external load against which it would be contracting. Can create a hypertrophic stimulus as the study shows? So there is something to say for a mind muscle connection. There's something to say for squeezing the muscle because it's being activated, even if it's a really light load. And the thing he talked about light load training with his legs, all this all kind of fits together. And this is the thing is these ideas are actually, there's not just bro bullshit. I mean, I don't think Nick was thinking of these studies when he made that he's thinking of his personal experience, right? Right. And that of many other people. There's an old video from one of the battle for the Olympias with me, though, stars out of him. And he had totally switched it up. He's like, I think he's maybe in his peak week, or he's very close to being on stage. And he's just always talking about it. It's just squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, and he's training super light, and squeezing, and squeezing, and squeezing. And he it was turned on to this idea. So this has actually been, this sort of thing has been tested in the literature. And I'll pull up a screen capture here to show this. Where they've trained their subjects with lighter loads and made sure to keep tension on the muscle continuously, right? As opposed to heavier training, where people might have a pause or you get to the full end of the range of motion. Let's see, get the last 10, 15 degrees of knee extension on a squat. You're not really getting any quad activation, right? If you even think that the squats are good for your quads, I tend to think that they can't have some effect, especially if you go deep. But in this particular series, and I'll show the authorist here in just second, they've actually shown that training lighter with intentionally maintaining continuous tension, by not locking out. And you see some people who have really strong benches, bodybuilders, train avoid a lockout on their pecs all the time. And you see them, you're just associating empirically and it totally guides who do that, who also have good pecs, maybe they're training more in the stretch position, what have you, but they're maintaining tension. They call this training without relaxation in between. Because that's essentially what you can get, especially, especially if you have to have some fibers that are being turned off, some motor units bring turned off, to match the loading curve of the exercise. So if you get to the end of an exercise where it's lighter and it's easier, if you just maintain the activity of all those motor units that were active earlier on when it was necessary to move the weight, you would just blast into almost a hyper extension. You would be uncontrollable, you just like fly into a lockout at your knee, which not be a good thing. So there's although the whole muscle might not be completely relaxing, although you can do that. You can lock your knees out on a squat, not a good idea to do that for prolonged periods. But there's some relaxation of the fibers. And when they created conditions where that doesn't happen, where there's continuous tension or flexing, so to speak, it's not exactly the same thing, but there's a related type of idea. You see an interesting thing, it's lighter load training without the relaxation, and you get fiber-type specific hypertrophy and the limited studies they've done. And I'll show this here just briefly to sec. So nitraba is the first name on many of these, oops, these studies. Let's see if it shows it here. You can see this. Mm-hmm. Bottom. Let me go to the first page. So nitraba has been the first name on some of these pop-off and then vino-grado gradova. This is a nice kind of review with a study built-in. And I'll just go to the results here, because it's fairly complicated. Really went all in on this. But what we have here are is regular, leg extension type of training, L groups. Ne extension, or these were on an isocunetic device that they set up in isotonic mode. So you can set up an isocunetic lab or rehab device to behave as if it were a free weight. And then here they did the isocunetic, or sorry, the regular leg extension, the real free weight with a little bit of a more moderate load here, a little bit higher actually in both cases. So we have C for control, regular training, and E means there was no relaxation. So they were continually contracting without resting in, that was so they shortened the range of motion to some degree. And the workloads were different. We can slide across this table here. The one-rette maxes were greater in the heavier training, at least in this particular group. And then what you see here, and this is the interesting part, this is the area of the type 1 muscle fibers, muscle fiber type 1, MFI, and type 2 muscle fibers. And we see here with the control regular training, 80% of one-rette maxes is regular 8 to 12-rette max training. They got what you oftentimes see, in this case 23.4 versus 9.4% increase is in type 2 versus type 1 muscle fibers. So there's more growth in the type 2s, which you typically see. When they drop the load down, so this is what made me think of this, when you sent the clip that Nick was talking about, those last six weeks, he stopped worrying about his loads. He's squeezing, he's maintaining tension. He's not just neglecting the eccentric, he also noted that, which is important, I think. He's probably was using lighter loads. He went back to Jersey, New Gym, but using lighter loads. I don't think he's going to lose, and those six weeks are going to lose any type 1 fiber, I'm sorry, type 2 fiber, but when you strain that way, we see an interesting pattern here. So this is the type 1 fiber increases versus type 2 fiber. You get, when you train in this way with a lighter loads, at least in these experimental design, you get greater relative increases than type 1 fibers, versus the type 2. Now this is 8.2, pills compare us to 23. This is what you get. 23 is, in this case, which you get from traditional without trying to avoid the relaxation. So you definitely would take 23 over 8.2 for sure. But maintaining the tension produced better type 1 fiber growth. So this speaks to the potential for various things. Train, perhaps heavier, and try to keep that mind muscle connection going at the same time, where you're contracting, which you can do. You'd have to have co-contractions to balance out the torques about the joint, but you can maintain and squeeze the muscle throughout the course of range of motion. Even when you're training heavier, it's much easier to do a course to control the weight and those sorts of things when it's lighter. And plus when you're training heavier, you're going to activate those fibers anyway you're going to need to. But what this suggests is that maintaining, this is somewhat of a stretch out from a purely scientific perspective, somewhat of a stretch, but maintaining muscle tension, this is going to create, this can create metabolic stress, which will affect then the fiber type recruitment patterns that you have, it has a multitude of effects. Metabolic stress does play a role in the way in which the motor units and the fibers become activated. But you can evoke a type one specific increase in fiber size, training with this no relaxation type of strategy in place. So this was the leg extension, you see the same pattern here. So like with when they are on the connect, I connect the vice, traditional regular, not worrying about that. Type two fibers grew better 19.4 versus 6.5. But when we didn't allow the muscle to relax and we maintained tension throughout, it's 17.7 versus 6.5 for the type ones. The type two didn't grow very well. So we get a reversal of the relative changes in type one versus type two fibers. So that squeezing thing is going to be something that is going to potentially preferentially activate and hypertrophy the type one fibers. This is one of the reasons, this kind of evidence, one of the reasons why Brad shown failed to initially hypothesize that metabolic stress is important for muscle growth. Because this is a more metabolically stressful scenario here. Actually, if you look at it, the workload is about half in each of these. If you look at how much they are doing. So they're not actually moving as doing as much if you it would be interesting to see what would happen if they equated this. And that's kind of what they did here, but they also changed the loads. But this suggests that metabolic stressful activity could potentially be, it's definitely changed as the motor unit activation strategies. That's just, that's part of hennaman size. That's part of muscle wisdom. There's type three and type four afference in the muscle that sense this metabolic stress feedback to the spinal cord and then alter the recruitment according to hennaman size principle. So that you can keep doing things, right? If you create the T with metabolic stress, there has to be some adapt adaptation in order to keep doing the reps. If not you would just come to a grinding halt and you'd just be staring at your muscles saying, what are you doing? It's not what I want. Yeah. So you can get this reversal. Interestingly enough, here they still found it when they increased to 65% of a 1-ret max. So more moderate load versus 85 really heavy, they still saw the same thing. So the really heavy stuff definitely went at 33 percent increase in type two fiber cross sectional area. Not much in the type one with the really heavy stuff, but the lighter stuff got after the type ones much more so than type two. So there's a pattern over all three of these different conditions, whether you're really with three weights, you're on an isocunnic machine or whether you're training a little bit heavier in both cases. You see the heavy training focuses on type two, fiber growth, the lighter stuff goes to type one. Now someone else might have known that this played a role when he decided that Widowmakers would make sense for people to do. Yeah. It'll don't say that high-ref stuff does work in some cases. Yeah. There is a study from Carniera with postmenopalza woman. It's sort of the one study we have that's looked at this, comparing they did a crossover study, high-lowed versus low-load, 12 weeks under each condition and they had of course some people responded better, really well at a high-lowed, some people responded a little bit low-load and then some who didn't. When they crossed over so they spent 12 weeks at either high-lowed training or low-load training, like big training. I think they took a week or two sort of break, wash-out period, maybe in between some measures happen sometimes when these weren't students in this case, but sometimes the researchers need to lead to and a shut-down at the school. They switched over then the high-lowed went to low-load and a low-load with the high-load. Those people who were non-responders or minimal responders to either of those conditions had better responses. Second half of the study when they changed from high-lowed to low-load or low-load to high-load, which suggests then that you would expect to like we talked about a couple of podcasts back. This logged in and it returned with suggests that in that second 12-week period you wouldn't see the same gains. They would be less in general because you'd be a newbie gains. You might expect that. The fact that gains took off for those who didn't fare so well initially, whereas those who did do well did see a law of dimensioning returns. Their data suggests that some people do better with light loads and some people do better with with heavier loads. That could be because they have relatively more type one fibers. So if you train with lighter loads and that tends to get the type one fibers and that's light versus heavy is a little bit of a different situation. There's a study from Morton from 2016. They saw no difference in the relative hyper-achute of those two. These studies are using a different approach. They're maintaining tension during the set, which is exactly what I have people do during pump sets of four to two training through what it's worth. This was something that was part of that thinking when I came up with those because your main tank, there's no relaxation, you don't do them like, Widowmakers are bad ass. Trust me, those can be game-changes for people. This approach with lighter weights, maintaining tension, is something that may be better for certain people, especially if they just have a lot of type one fibers. So one more thing I'll connect the dots on here to this is just all the thoughts that flow around. I'm pulling from the thought cloud in my head here. Okay. Please down. So Nick talked about higher reps for legs too. So he did. Yeah, so it's interesting. He touched on a ton of shit. They're all in that, which is a little clip. It's a jump. Let me take this down here so I can see you. Okay. Yeah. We don't need any more. So for instance, from the aging literature, you see that there's a preferential loss of type two fibers and in general atrophy in the lower limbs compared to the upper limbs. Right. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Older guys. That's a straight. That's a straight. Yeah. I mean, see that in the body building world too. Yeah, I'm just talking about the average person, but yeah, definitely. And that could be a lot of things, but that does tend to happen. I think knee pain can be part of like people just don't train us out. You're not doing 500 pounds squats when you're 62 years old, most of you. But it seems like the that that hints at different use patterns during the day and the possibility that and what happens also as older folks are getting older is their mobility goes down. So the change in what's happening to their their legs, what they are legs are seeing on a day to day basis is greater in the lower body or the sources of the upper body. Most people aren't moving around doing things, maybe they're typing, but they're not, they're not doing push-ups, they're not doing highly strenuous things. They've got a very different loading history in the upper body versus the lower body. So the lower body when you stop using it and you stop doing that high rep continuous static as opposed to phasic. So phasic activity as it comes in phases. You know, every once in a while you got to pick up something heavy and move it with your arms, right, or push someone away from you or pull on something that's heavy, what have you, but with your legs, it's more of a tonic type of activity. Those aren't tone muscles or not posture muscles, but they're staying active, you're walking, you're moving around. We're basically as bipeds that were sort of ambulatory with the idea that we're hunters and gathers and we be walking around. So there's various pieces of kind of kind of point to the idea that a higher lower load type of stimulus could be a good way to preserve lower body muscle mass. And you can do this. The blood flow restriction studies are amazing. They just do blood flow restriction to have older people walk on a treadmill and they get muscle growth. Just from blood flow restriction added to the treadmill walking. So the fact that Nick says that his legs stay full and he has a good response from training with higher reps with legs, which bodybuilders have been saying for decades now. Right. Isn't surprising to me when you look at what the research suggests in terms of those muscles losing size when they don't receive higher up activity of walking around as opposed to the body. Doesn't lose size because it's not seeing much of a change and it's normally very phasic intermittent type of activity. So it's very possible not for everyone depends on your fiber type percentages. That higher rep stuff is going to be a better option for the lower body. People have seen this for years with calves many times and bodybuilders have typically said this with legs as well. And Nick is reminding us that that is the case for him too. So yeah it doesn't surprise me that you know he's probably doing some cardio but people get a little bit lazy sometimes during their prep too. They don't move around and they're not as active. So higher reps is based on which a saw is going to be maybe a better way to target those type ones and keep them from dropping in size. If they don't receive the daily activity they normally would because you're spending more time napping and conserving your energy. Yeah you're on a diet. Get a question for you. Can you please explain the just difference in real world between type one and two? Okay so I got a really old video on YouTube that we could maybe link or something. I'll send it to you. Okay. Now by my pool and I was using the dry erase board. I'll just look at how I've ever seen some of those. Yeah yeah so there's different ways this is a kind of a for you're asking a muscle biologist to tell you about fiber tests so good. I get the hot spot in here. All right. It comes to geek. So there's different ways of typing muscle fibers, of figuring out what type they are. We tend to see is and this is really sort of an over generalization to compartmentalize muscles, muscle fibers and say they're either this or that because they're not necessarily. Initially you'll hear people talk about red fibers and white fibers. Right. Yeah. That's a really, really antiquated term that you won't even hear mentioned in textbooks and the less they explain that that comes from research in rodents. Rabbits are like this. Birch us are birds are like this and rats are like birds are like this in particular. So why you have white me can white me, white me can dark me in birds. So the dark me is the stuff is that they would use a lot has lots of fat in it. It's dark because it has more a myoglobin. So you have some fibers that are more endurance oriented. Those would be the red ones in rodents or birds and then you have some fibers that are not so endurance oriented. Those are white. They don't have the capitalization. They don't have the myoglobin. That's an old antiquated term. People still use red and white. I just ordered the other other day on a video. But what now what has been done for 40 years or more is they look at initially looked at the type of myusin ATPase which tells you how which is associated with how fast the muscle fibers contract. So all of this is basically it's not exactly this but it's basically to match how muscles get used under varying circumstances depending on what where they are in the body. So when you let's just go to we'll go right into the resistance exercise. When you pick up a very light load let's say you're just picking up the pink dumbbells to hand them over to somebody to give him shit. We start curling them right? Easy. The head of my size principle will tell you that they're the low threshold motor units will be activated first. Those are associated with fibers that would be called type one. When you look at those you can see if you just did a bunch of reps like that and you then took the whole muscle out or biopsied the muscle you'd say okay we only see glycogen that's gone in the type ones. Only the type ones got activated. If you isolated the nerve with that light easy stuff you'd see only those neurons that go to what are the type one fibers the low threshold motor unit fibers are activated. So type ones are your endurance oriented sort of first gear light load easy effort types of stuff and then as things progress in terms of effort or the weight gets heavier you have to call on fibers that have a different kind of bias and type two just breaking it down in the two different scenarios. There's another classification system where they have seven fiber types. Oh wow. Most of the time yeah most of the time people will just go with three type one and type two and then there's two sub types type two A and type two X. Okay. Ooh that was it last podcast. I showed some data from steron at all from 1990 and they talked about type two A and type two B. That's the old way of naming these fibers and humans. They found something out that humans and rats don't share the same myosin. So myosin is is one part of the actin and myosin in sarcomeres that allows the sarcomeres to shorten contract produced for. So you got fibers that would be type one. They have a certain bias in ATPase so they can break down ATP only at a slower rate but they don't need to do it any differently because they're endurance oriented. There's not a huge hour output demands from those fibers typically in terms of lifting heavy loads or doing anything extremely effortful. Eventually or if you just start off doing something like sprinting that's harder you're going to need to call on those type type two's. The type two A is would be first and then if it's an all out effort the type two X's would be called upon. And those are sort of your last gear that most people don't really tap into much of those are the ones that basically disappear and older folks. You don't really see those because they don't get used. You don't use it. You lose it. Are we using them as bodybuilders if we're pushing to hard failure? Here's the interesting thing. Yeah so there's some the the data somewhat equivocal on this but mostly it's it's kind of a cool story actually mostly what you find in most studies is that we saw this in the sterons study actually I mentioned I think in the podcast is those two X's they were called two B and that study. When you start using them that's registered in the cell nucleus that's registered because there's metabolic stress there and then they will start producing different mice and that's more efficient because they're seeing a repeated stimulus and it makes more sense to have the type two A mice and as opposed to type two X mice and so if you I'll tell the story I've here by told it before here but when I was in grad school I did a bunch of mice a system with mice a biopsies I did a whole bunch of on myself and we analyzed the fibers right if you activate a type two X fiber enough and train it it becomes a type two A. What you see in most training studies is the two X percentage of two X goes down. Okay so look how much the two X is grew it's like yeah but there was it was like 0.7% of the total fiber area it become the they vanish so I had we had this biopsie from my muscle this was in like probably 98 or something like that and there were hundreds and hundreds of fibers there and I had one type two X fiber. I didn't get that fiber I'm fined I've been holding back I just had so there probably was just a few of them scattered that hadn't yet converted right okay so yeah we you do activate type two X is when you start off maybe from a layoff but eventually if you use them enough in most studies they go away okay there are some studies there's like a Italian group that that showed more of those than you would expect from many of the studies so I have the sense that people are training high volume once a week roast split types of things pros split jacobler style training like a lot of body builders do it works for a lot of people they probably are gonna have very very few of those type two X's okay the type two A's are a little more endurance oriented they're a little more economical at the contraction speeds you see during resistance exercise now if you're training heavier there's actually a few studies you can show an increase in type two X's if you train it really high velocities or really high efforts you can do with elective stimulation there there's some possibility even the type ones will become type two's train with power training in in mind so someone only surprised if a power lifter who maybe started off with an endurance exercise background or which they maybe weren't very good at what have you and they just went to just power lifting heavy heavy stuff in frequent and actually their overall activity levels went down that they could have more type two X's over time okay it's funny you see like endurance athletes when they detrain their fibers will get bigger some studies really yeah it's it's not an advantage for fibers to be really large if they're exposed to endurance exercise performance because that means they have a lot this is the theory these there's have a larger diffusion distance so they need to get oxygen in and then to get those metabolic stress by products out okay you'd have lots of capillary to get the blood through there they need a good blood flow they need to get gashus exchange and metabolite exchange and having a giant gyanormous fiber is not helping that regard so but when they stop so the adaptation then would be to shrink the fibers right and sometimes you see you see there's there's really kind of cool there's studies that should all sorts of different variants and how the muscle can adapt the plasticity's tremendous but when you when you detrain endurance athletes their fibers will send us to get bigger and their vertical jump will go double they don't like they have like an eight inch vertical leap and they'll go like 16 inches so detraining for them shifts them towards more type two and or larger fibers so an untrained muscle has lots of potentially lots of two X depending on your genetics and then when you train it most of the time the two X has become two okay can I circle all the way back around at the beginning then so the first thing we're talking about squeezing the muscle versus training with you know 10 to 12 reps to failure both produced results did they produce results in different fibers yeah I can pull that up again not and now you got better background pull it back up and we can look at it okay that's right here so yeah this is the cool part so so just look here at these two lines right oh c is control and this is lay extensions and and e is no relaxation okay so they they they they train 50% of a one-ret max really light and the continuous tension as opposed to you just train 80% one-ret max and you train heavy and they didn't worry about trying to try to do a squeeze or anything like this is as close to doing the squeeze as I know of in the research literature because they're maintaining tension throughout right okay and they set up the repetitions and the tempo and the range of motion so that they never they didn't ever they use the weater continuous tension principle I'm sure there's a weater continuous tension right you mean everything you could like that's a weater principle yeah and what we see here is that with with the standard basic heavy training not worrying about a squeeze 23% increase in type two fibers that's here and only nine in the type one fibers okay that was that was with the heavy weight so it's getting a lot more signs in the type two fiber okay I'm following yeah yeah and that's what you see it's not always the case but that's what you typically see in your standard resistance exercise training study where they train like this 80% of a one-ret max you typically people will say it's and you're not it's not wrong to say this but the the because generally we actually see this here mathematically at least that the type two's have a greater potential for muscle growth yeah that's that's the notion and that seems to be the case so in this case 23% the type two's nine percent the type ones with the heavy training whereas with the lighter training 18% basically 17.7 versus 8.2 so the type ones grew more yeah yeah okay good so yeah with the lighter and and this if you look at the other other conditions they had control squeeze I'm call it yeah the different machine and a little bit heavier loads you seem to see the same pattern in the control yeah two fiber increases are greater than type one but when you add the squeeze you reverse that pattern so it's a referential fiber type high hypertrophy that comes from trading in one way versus the other okay got it I've got to follow what's that yes yes can we do both can we I mean I'm absolutely not in the same set but can we do both to try to grow all the fibers of course that's what four to two training does okay yeah yeah and I and I thought John was going to make it talk that too you know he was like well I don't just want to grab up we grow all of them you know and I mean yeah absolutely I mean and that's what that's what Jordan Peters has talked about this you know get stronger and all the rep ranges yeah better and all the rep ranges so the lower the lower rep or the lower reps would tend to be the hyperweight would tend to get the type two's the lower reps the lighter weight or the higher reps the lower weight would tend to get the type once and as you pointed out as well from a different study that maybe you'll respond better to the higher reps maybe you'll respond better the lower reps but if you do them all you're going to get it all you're like you get everything you can't at least you're covering all your bases is good idea yeah so don't just do just one thing like heavyweight is great heavyweight for many reps so you can get is great but then higher reps for as many reps as you or higher weight for excuse me lighter weight for as higher reps as you can get is also great yeah and you know like another thing kind of popped up in my head is one of the things Dante has said is he calls it get funky with it okay um and for people who have weak muscle groups that don't seem to want to grow we've talked about this too this isn't going to be everyone but one potential reason for that is they don't have a good mind muscle connection right yeah they're not someone who can go and pick a sub optimal exercise let's say and contract it like in the count study and just create um a flex the muscle flex the muscle sort of squeeze the muscle even though it's not contributing to moving the load and create a hyper-trophic effect from that because they just know how to contract the muscle they can make their lap work you know just like you and your calves right yeah calves just wanted to be activated right and we can see the video you're doing side laterals and your up front is the keytoes yeah yeah so your calves are just and you when you I think maybe we talk about leg pressing you just your calves just want to be activated there's something about your biomechanics neurologically what have you your calves just get activated they're obviously not a weak muscle group on you yeah yeah um other way around some people who maybe don't have that mind muscle connection have to learn how to do it don't get growth from the standard exercises even if they're not biomechanically optimal the loading curve is off or the angles off or what have you and they can't figure out a good way to execute um where they're getting that muscle involved because of of how they're doing it they don't have a good mind muscle connection that's one Dante's strategy of getting funky with is finding an exercise where biomechanically you have no choice whatsoever but to activate the muscle um in isolation the way you're intending yeah and and that it's activated in the length and position in a way that it would otherwise be you can't like do squats where you're getting like minimum loading on your quads in the last third of the range of motion you're going to have to do an exercise like a like a scissy squat of some sort where you're leaning way back or you're going to have to do knee extensions where you got a load like biomechanics like just preweight knee extension so it's heaviest at the very end right I had the bench back like tipped up like this so load at the beginning as opposed to if if if it's just hanging like this there's no load at the beginning and get to here and you got you got maximum load okay so I had the whole bench up like this so it starts there you can put it in the bottom a little bit and then and then if you got a decent load at the top too so you're going to have to maybe you're going to have to get funky with it find exercises that basically give you no biomechanical neurological option other than to activate that muscle because you're not good at doing it yourself in the way someone with the good mind muscle who has that's I consider a kind of a form of athleticism yeah in our in the context of bodybuilding is like you know how to get the muscle activated when you're doing exercises that would use it that's why that study was a good study for them to do with the no load training is they did the level flexors the biceps break yeah etc right because look you can see it right unlike your back and you can feel it and most people that's just one that you know I can this my make a muscle people do this right so everyone can see their biceps they can touch it they can feel it it's a really easy one to create a mind muscle connection on yeah as opposed to if they tried that same study and said hey I want you contract your lower lab and go through your range of motion like this and keep it contracted I'll need to work yeah I could totally see that so that goes to the point is like those muscles that you just can't easily activate with a good mind muscle connection can't maintain tension you tend to call in accessory muscles or what have you then you're going to have to do what Dante said and get funky with it and give the muscle no other choice and find the exercise that just completely exploits that muscle biomechanically so yeah has to use I'll tell you one last this is kind of related to the funny thing it popped in my head I had years ago when I was in grad school in Texas I was I got I trained people like really early the morning and a young guy came in and I think he he hired me initially and then he wanted his dad to train so his he was taking over his dad's construction company and his dad that done construction work his entire life and now he was retired and I think you started to gain some weight he wasn't active wasn't doing all this stuff he used to do and he's looking after his dad looks like it's gets you in the gym dad and keep you healthy well well so I'm just shown in the world for just showing exercises the young guy knew some things that dad had no clue about this stuff right yeah so I'm like okay let's we're going to do a bi-step curl and I think I may have seen it but you wasn't questioning picking things up and putting them down for his whole life is what you're telling absolutely yeah and that's that's the whole point is he knew how to do it he knew how to use his much muscle as possible to make it easier you if you if you're out you know loading stuff onto a truck you don't do a strict bicep curl to put it into the you know how to you know you use you use as much leverage you can't activate as much as muscle you swing things around you move them so that you could do that shit all day long if you don't you don't survive that work and this guy was a survivor for decades so I was trying to do we got into where I was trying to do a concentration a dumbbell concentration curl back of his elbow backed up against the inside of his thigh right he's got the it was he's right there I wanted to get teach him a mind muscle connection using the biceps and just how to do this exercise right so he's he's like he's leaned over and I'm just like all I want you to do is just bend it to your elbow just bend the elbow nothing else yes he's doing this of course he is I don't mind like no no don't exactly yeah he's doing an isometric and he's leveraging the thing up you know my movement is whole body around like that makes a lot easier I'm like no this is I want you to just move your elbow not your upper body and I literally I had him I grabbed him by the front and back of his shoulder and I was trying to keep him put him in a voice he's still he's throwing me around the gym I'm like yeah but all that was programmed in yeah he learned how to do that so that's someone who had learned how to not do what body builders are trying to do not work a muscle in isolation yeah and there's some there's some degree that I think is something that probably is somewhat innate in us you know when we you know when we you know when we we've been down to pick something up you know some people just kind of bend it they're back but you squat if in most countries where they're much more agile than we are on the spend time squatting and that's probably what we had done in our evolutionary origins you squat down to grab things right but you don't do a stiff leg a deadlift no or if there's something like at your heels you don't do like a scissi squat right and squat right right you there's a certain movement patterns that we develop as kids etc and they become ingrained and bodybuilding is hacking around that to some degree yeah by using exercises by creating my most connection ball blah blah to create that to hack into that muscle and force it to grow in a way that otherwise wouldn't those weak muscles would stay weak and the relative proportion of size across a joint the the agonist and antagonist of knee extension let's say would be how they are because of your biomechanics and your neural neuro programming and a neuromechanical matching too I think could probably something that played plays a role that's a contentious topic so I'll just leave that there okay but up but anyway so so yeah there's there is something to say for squeezing the muscle I think and there's some a size of evidence that suggests without his direct study doing that we've got the count study it's kind of like we've got we've got training traditional training heavy training where you're not worried about that and then you're enlightening the load and maintaining continuous tension we looked at those research we've got blood flow restriction which which creates much more metabolic stress this is what one of the reasons what people think metabolic or thought or think metabolic stress is associated creates a different activation strategy those type ones get loaded and activate it in a different way and then the gap would be training with the squeeze and then we have training with no load it only the squeeze so we have continuum of evidence that sort of points towards a type one fiber specific hyper-trophic effect interesting enough they didn't measure different type of fiber types in that count study they know load study but but we have converging evidence points the direction that a great master thesis for someone would be to train with the squeeze with and without the squeeze and maybe have a heavy condition and a light condition yeah so you can get that study is one of your participants yeah yeah I think he I think he he's sorry you might close the five to get much growth from him but but the thing too that I forgot to add another piece this would make a maybe I'll make this into presentation sometime to give for folks there's a lot of cool pieces of evidence here but that mine muscle connection also goes away or the ability to evoke that goes away when you get to about 80% of the one-rette max oh okay yeah so you could the classic studies are a couple of them you can tell people to do this bench press with a peck versus your triceps yeah and when they have low loads like 40 50 60% of one they can do that lift it with your triceps they do it more of a tricep oriented so they can switch the muscle that they're using but when you get to 80% of water at max they can't do that because it's so heavy they they don't have a choice they have to bring in the other muscles that's a great point to I think bring up and that's something where I'm seeing people have problems nowadays I think that there are a lot of people that are hyper focused on trying to isolate the target muscle and because of that they aren't using the heavy loads that it can take to be able to get to you know 280 pounds and I've had that with clients where I see them saying like well I want to do this you know twisting one arm hold down right and I think there is benefit to that you know and they say but if I do two arms at once I can't feel it I don't feel it anymore yeah is there still benefit to that exercise if you're not quote unquote feeling it the way you can feel it with lighter weight in optimal control in hard squeeze you know because I think the answers already been in our squeeze versus just do the reps study I know that's not the name of the study but that's on on my call it for yeah so you can just conversation yeah if someone is just they get a they it feels amazing with the one arm a unilateral approach and the bilateral approach just feels horrible then one option would be just to not do them that way right the other other option would be is to keep working on that mind most of connection the thing the thing that makes me hesitant is just sort of throughout the baby with the bath water so to speak and to stop doing bilateral exercises that have been really effective for many many people I don't think anything was things any I wasn't trying to say stop but you know even like like I can say I've seen people who say like well well and I when I do stiff legs for instance if I you know go up above a certain weight you know where I can't do this like really good control or so what you know it's like it just takes everything takes over I think personally that there's benefit to overloading the body and also doing doing both basically do let's do both you know that's where I was going with this okay that's right I was agreeing with you I wasn't yeah I don't you don't want to fill those out because one you can you can learn how to do those maybe lighten a load slightly yeah there there can be I really think well let's say you're trying to make that I take that stiff leg a deadlift example you're trying to make that a hamstring action and it becomes you've just filled it in the glutes mainly okay well then you're getting some you're getting some glute activation there the way the partial set the way partial sets are now counted up in the research as you might call that a half set for the glutes okay so they all pressing movements become a half a set for triceps even if they're supposed to be a overhead shell so there's some stimulus that gets added in there potentially yeah and that's that's one thing like for instance with DC training in particular that you can do is let's say you want to bring your triceps up right so you might in particular do make sure you don't have flies as your chest movements because you're focused you're maybe sacrifice over the chest but you use pressing movements so you get some tricep activation on your pressing movements for your shoulders and for your delts because you're getting more more tricep involvement there so the triceps are getting half sets maybe in those cases so yeah there's something to say for training the whole body you're getting some some training stimulus to those other muscles and it's usually enough if those muscles seem like they're taking over get them stronger so that those aren't loaded as much if those are really easier and then you can then it becomes a hamstring exercise again interesting yeah yeah and yeah and remember Ron talking about this on an episode of it's just bodybuilding him in the way he phrased it was people saying like well I don't feel that you know pendulum and where I want to feel it in my leg though you know or whatever I don't feel that hacksquat let's say the hacksquat because that's kind of more of front and back everything exercise I don't feel it in the quad and his thought was like you don't have to your body your your body has the intelligence to use all of these muscles together and just because you're not feeling it in one specific spot doesn't mean that that spot isn't working like the whole everything's working in conjunction you don't have to tell your body use the quad and obviously we've talked about yeah there is benefit like on a bench press visualizing using the chest but it whether you do or don't that chest is firing in the bench press yeah and the thing too that if you do a set of 20 you're gonna feel it in those last 10 reps because you've got more metal ball extra so you're gonna you're gonna have a different mindless section than if you do a set of eight on some of you're not you're not gonna get like oh my god like the muscles on fire it's you know feels like it's gonna melt off my body because it's burning so badly yeah when people are folk hyper-focused on that they might have be having good loading in the muscle and because they've got so much downward central drive which needs to be there to move the heavy loads they're not is able to pick up on that afferent information it's coming back for the muscles so that that happens with pain for instance this is called a gaining phenomenon I don't know experts so some correct me from wrong but the idea is that pain signals afferent signals coming back to the brain the gate is closed if you're sending descending information down so the the the signal transaction coming back from muscle during exercise is is reduced when you've got a central drive it's interfered with in a certain way according to this gaining idea there's had a gate would be closed so they might be they might be activating that muscle and they just can't tell because they've got such a heavy load they have so much descending drive they're just not getting the same afferent information to let them know that it's being activated and it doesn't sense and it feels the same because there's not gonna have the the lactic acid and the other things that are gonna give them the sense okay that muscle's going yeah so by two day the next day definitely gonna be sore you know that's the thing is like okay like I'm gonna try this like give it a go you know and I'm gonna say I don't like the heavy stuff I can't feel the muscle will have a muscle give it a go do your damnedest focus on my muscle connections start the movement with the target muscle initiate movement with that do you remember you possibly can work on that my muscle connection see what happened soreness wise and then give it some time to grow with that and see yeah you start to see the improvements yeah yeah so there's you know give it give it time don't just give up on it because you don't didn't get you know an immediate sense in that set that it did what you wanted it to do yeah I feel like people have been you know and again it's kind of cool how like conscientious lifters are becoming and how stuff will where they are but I do think that it it can we can't take it too far you know sometimes in and end up kind of missing you know some really heavy ass you know lightweight baby stuff yeah really good at you you know you know what I set up this is one of the things I kind of incorporated in a 42 training intentionally is that you've got the loading sets you got the muscle around the pump set so which is compared to the loading in the pump the pump is when you're really you're looking for that targeted mind muscle connection creating the metal block stress you're doing things we're kind of talked about here today you want that you want to just see or the gains into the muscle right that was me it's isolated you don't have so much central drive involved you're not going to you're not going to get done with those sets like oh my god I just want to line them on the well maybe you will with legs sometimes but it's not the same central nervous system type of holy shit I feel like I just ran into a brick wall 100 times right those are the training sessions when you do that right and you cultivate your mind muscle connection and you check that box just like we talked about checking the box with the with the no relaxation training being type one fiber high-patrophic specific so to speak and then when it comes to loading sets that's when you go to town and you make gravity your bitch right and you move up the big weights the exercise is that you know work for you and you do your best to have a good mind muscle connection you do all those sorts of things but you're not expecting necessarily get this great pump that's isolated just to the muscle you want in the target right so it could be more compound exercises anyway just that well some of them are isolated some of the compound but those are your big you know your your big extra squats that lifts incline presses dips those sorts of things yeah you wouldn't do for the pump sets necessarily so so some people I think just psychological I was saying okay I got my pump sets there was her in place I'm doing that I've got a good mind muscle connection checking that box but I also know that if I get brutally strong on these exercises and I double my 50% increases in my strength on those over the next three years it's going to show up my physique because these are the right exercises for me and I know this and my muscle connection whatever I'm moving this weight they're still an internal focus right you're not just like squatting in three inches and just bending at the hip right you're still squatting with good execution sure but you're not like the the efficacy of whether or not you had a good set or that workout was as good as you'd hoped it'd be is not going to be and how you felt the muscle work during those sets per say it's going to be whether you check the boxes in terms of execution range of motion blah blah blah and the log book got it's ass whipped yeah you know what's got so many times I think when people talk about science in fitness and bodybuilding they use it as a weapon to say that this is what you must do or this is a terrible idea you should never do this you use science to say that it really all works like do it all you really do you you say you you science to say that like well sometimes this is great and sometimes the opposite is great you know that's you're I think that that sometimes confuses our listeners because they want to walk away with that black and white answer that oh thank god Scott's here with science he can tell us exactly the one thing that we should be doing and the other things that we shouldn't but I'm walking away from this conversation hearing that you should definitely still do both squeeze the muscle use good control and also use heavy weight that you may not feel the squeak may not be able to feel the squeeze and as much and you know rely on that natural intuition of the muscle you know what I mean that it knows what to do when you're using it yeah I mean should's kind of a four letter word even though there's more than four letters in it but another way you do this is is this is my big thing figured out for yourself yeah give it a go you know try give yourself six months or a year when you do the squeeze right or you just do higher up stuff right or the other way around everything's six to eight reps even like isolation movements you couldn't you can do them that way right I think even if you only leaned into one you would probably still get some sort of growth right you know what I mean yeah you might not it might not be the ultimate answer but you'll be able to isolate it kind of like if you're breaking down gear and you just try one compound at a time you know yeah figured out for you like the study um carnier study I mentioned with the postmanipals of women like some of them yeah the one of the takeaways from there is that higher-ups was probably a better approach for muscle for some of those women and low reps was probably a better approach and it could be a whole bunch of reasons because they don't pain ability to handle pain they like to feel the pot you know there could be there's a number of different means could be purely what stimulates muscle growth in their muscles um could be questions to our listeners which metal puzzle woman are you yeah um it could be even something like you train higher reps and you're like I'm just wrecked I'm just gonna go home and take a nap and they don't eat for three hours yeah yeah there's that right or they do the other way then it goes this is great and like I think I'm going to grab some food or I just go right to the cafeteria or whatever so there's a number of different things but you gotta try those things the one I tried to do with four to two training is try to check all the boxes um you know with a daily undulating periodization scheme where you're doing different set types um that are gonna have potentially a book fiber herperchophie somewhat in a specific fashion what have you and then you just get good at all of those yeah and they coordinate with one another but you can periodize which has been done for years and just go with you know heavy and then lighter light and heavy and say okay the heavy stuff you know does work for me or go with reps and reserve see if that works and try to do more volume um that was another thing Nick was talking about Nick's doing all you know to a degree reps and reserve now and he said then he's loving it like it's it's been great for him and when we talked about it on the podcast the interview we just did with him recently he had said that uh what do you say he said that if he could go back you know because the big question is well Nick that's not the way you grew the smossle you know but it it take to do that he said hey if I could go back I would do that from the start I don't feel as beat up and I feel like I'm getting just as good of uh you know overall activation but he's a lot fresher feeling now day to day very rewatch more recovered than he had been in the past so I would say this too that if you do pick one or the other lightweight lighter weight with all squeezing that constant and I love constant tension overall we're we're we're constant tension principle one all three um I love that stuff um and I also love like really heavy weight and I love heavy weight with constant tension there's a balance in there too where if it's not working for you if you did do extremely heavy stuff and that stuff wrecks you well maybe you can still do extremely heavy stuff but maybe tailored a little bit more so that you can listen to your body and not get absolutely rocked from it right mm mm yeah auto regulate yeah again two with Nick um then we talked about this is one of the previous podcast you're recently is that he trained two failure for so many years yeah now his reps and reserve he can adequately judge that because he's one of the different years and years um as opposed to someone who's a year and a half in and they're trying to do that and their their reps and reserve is actually they think they're two and they're actually seven yeah and they never really learn to push themselves and there's I you know I always I still think we don't see this in the literature because people there's an internal governor but there's I think an inverted you dose response and Nick may have been training doing more and feeling wrecked then was optimal for him at some point of time he's still making progress but he was just wasn't making optimal progress his progress could have been better or at least now for sure his progress would be mill or be minimal or less than it currently is as he's apparently seeing and he's optimizing because he trained so hard anyway by having more reps to reserve getting a more volume and he still creates you know obviously Nick's got pretty good genetics I think for bodybuilding he also dots every eye across every team I mean that's the thing that's really I think under estimated under butner valued is that that guy is not missing a single beat yeah everything he does everything he does is odd but that being said to he has his muscle personal muscle genetic code is such that resistance exercise creates hypertrophy like it just he puts that in it's like gas to a fire right yeah yeah so it's gonna happen and then someone else maybe who's less genetically gifted in that sense they may need to cultivate the signal with with more with more sets taken to failure in order to get a signal whatsoever but then that means that they can't do as many sets because you can't recover from as many sets when you train failure all the time yeah and that just means that they're gonna be limited muscle growth which which you knew from the fact that they had the train to failure there's so many top pros like there's so many examples of guys that you can watch their training and you don't see a single video where they looked like their the bar is speed isn't slowing at all right and their monsters some of that's PD's but that's just there's tons of guys that are natural that just look ridiculous and you're like this guy's choose to the gills and they're not they're just genetic phenoms yeah and they and they don't they're not in there you know training until they're throwing up and going crazy and you know training like absolute idiots because they add in the load and the training and it's reasonably hard and the muscle just grows yeah that's just that genetic gift so that's that's I think we talked about this with um with uh Brandon Curry you're the you know that the guys in the middle east who can hang with that high volume protocol that everyone pretty much underwit were the ones that stuck around if you didn't have those genetics you couldn't do it yeah so the guys who can do set after set after set and still get a stimulus from each of those sets even if they're one or two rep shy of reserve and then still recover from all of those sets they've got at least two genetic components going for them one they don't have to go to absolute failure in order to create a stimulus for those sets this is my theory you might kind of the way I this is my perspective on things um and then they can add together a lot of those sets and still recover from it right they're responsive to a stimulus that might not be responsive for some people might might not be a stimulus that that creates new muscle growth because it wouldn't be those last few reps or reps to reserve that just doesn't work that Jordan I mentioned Jordan and other podcasts actually there's a it's probably going to be a shitstorm here but there was a story that got posted from a podcast I did I saw them the the clip and that really great clip too yeah he's put in good clips um where you were signed yeah go ahead yeah you tried reps to reserve training he had their he had a um things Steve Hals podcast revised stronger podcast I think is where he had conversation with Mike is retellify remember correctly and and Mike was explaining the reps to reserve ID and how it works and and Jordan's like I'll do whatever it takes I'll give it a go and he tried it and it didn't work out for him and I think he did it exactly the way he he should have and the way he thought he he should have right he didn't like try to sneak in reps to set to pillar whatever he wanted to give it a fair shake he'd gave it a fair shake and it didn't work for him right so and and I would say Jordan's I mean I would say Jordan and Nick's muscle mass is on a equivalent level sure Jordan's not going to beat Nick on stage but Jordan's is highly muscular is pretty much in the world. That's not the conversation right? Yeah right. But Jordan was someone that he'd been based on that um that short journey into reps reserve training didn't get the stimulus with all of the parameters he had in place to allow him to continue to progress he's someone because he doesn't have he has really good genetics but he doesn't maybe have the elite genetics that would put him in the top five on the Olympia stage where he can get away with so to speak or he can get an effective stimulus training with anything other than the way he trains which get all out balls to the wall you know I'm going to see God shake his hand and make him bow before me before I come back down to earth after the set. I'm glad to hear you say that because when I've tried to use him as an example on Blood Sweat and Gear skip and answers shut me down hard and say well Jordan is the absolute elite and I don't but I think that it's kind of like dusty you know dusty said hey listen the way I've trained my back is what I've had to do to grow my back you know I and the response to that was well did he try the other way and well Jordan did he's a great example then of maybe not being as elite as you know maybe somebody else there's there's levels of elite I guess. One other thing just this thought came to that conversation we had with Brandon Curry was so enlightening I wonder if he'd be interested in coming on with us now in talking about how his training has changed I believe he's probably if he's doing the master's Olympia I don't know if he is I months ago they were talking about that being a potential show that he might do and I mean God if I'd take the check you know what I'm saying if he's ready for it but I'd be curious to talk to him now because it's been probably several five years six years since we talked to him about that I wonder how it was training has changed you know with a little bit more age because at that point man it was just take the governor off and do as many sets as you can and you've got to get it in better is it still that way or has it evolved you know yeah I think he's back in Tennessee yeah you're around yep so he's not going overseas anymore it's not with his coach that he had then so yeah okay well we'll I don't I actually met I talked to him I went to his gym when I was in Tennessee oh yeah okay and worked out it he owns maybe he owns a number of them now but he had at least one location for his gym yeah I know he has the one curb in culture there yeah yeah carbon culture so maybe um maybe I could contact him and see I don't he probably doesn't answer his Instagram because he's getting so much of a retouchable okay yeah yeah yeah but but this interesting like this kind of Nick and Jordan comparison there you know there's there's no absolute in terms of what is best kind of produce muscle growth for it or anyone right and I mentioned this was on that probably another clip will come out there one did already from that other podcast and that was one thing I thought about I mentioned in the message to you this morning is that if we look across the landscape of what creates muscle growth we've got compensatory high aperture we've got these stretch overload models with the coils where they hang the weight off their wings when we got a small sliver of potential stimuli that produce muscle growth is resistance exercise and we've got higher up we've got low rep we've got continuous tension we've got no worry about that and there's there's so much more we sometimes we miss the forest for the trees so to speak and that there's so many other things that can produce massive increases in muscle size that are very very different the features are very very different than resistance exercise you're you're spending like whatever the muscles under tension for 10 minutes maybe you know you do you do 15 sets and there 45 seconds yeah or what you you know it's it's not that much time really and other these other like the stretch overload model again that's birds not not mammals but it's continuous all day longer the compens are they're walking around they're but it's just walking but that's an overload of sorts so if you think about those things being stimuli that do produce muscle growth muscle fiber size and high per playing the two and then you think well it's no surprise it's not if you look like this is the broad scheme of things we narrow in on resistance exercise we got someone who does more sets with less intensity or less intensity of effort yeah Nick the rep to reserve and get seems to get better results someone else is more towards to go to failure like those are so close together really yeah it's a tree that we're right next to one another yeah it's like to say this tree's better than an atree it's like no there's like look at the whole forest like there's trees that are all they're going at all sorts of different kinds of soil they've got different amount of sunlight different amount of water coming through and they're all growing they're all examples of muscle hypertrophy there's trees that never lifted a weight in their life and they look better than some guys that have yeah there's no weight lifting models of muscle hypertrophy and there's also so so that if you think of it from that perspective it's like yeah I did I mean it's the tension that's the most important thing and then I think progressive overload plays a role but that's that that's the thing too is and you mentioned this with execution on your chest pressing movements that's that's the one example that we brought up is that a way to create overload that wouldn't manifest as an outward progression of of weight would be to improve your execution in better mind-must but connection and have co-contractions are reactivating that muscle with a mind muscle type of of way of doing this so it's producing force during those sets that wouldn't necessarily manifest in moving I have your weight for more reps because you're doing like what they did in the count study where you're just flexing the muscle so that is a way that you could get better with a better mind-must of connection and figure out and then in that way have an overload that happens that isn't manifested in the logbook per se yeah but then I think this is where you know things kind of fit together in the grand scheme of is that if you do then have hypertrophy that would manifest as ability to lift a heavier weight for for more reps and you move to that mode of training where your logbook focused still with an internal focus on making sure you're activating the right muscles but you simply progress then the overload that created with that internal focus on squeezing the muscle etc that is producing hypertrophy which eventually manifest when you go and test the performance capabilities the muscle by training when you're counting your reps and you're micro loading the bar and those sorts of things to see if you're actually getting stronger and your performance is improving the gym so the two interact with one another yeah and some really kind of cool ways so yeah there's there's lots of ways to skin the cat well we got through one question today that's the one topic we had that five of them but that we means that we have a bunch more stuff than for next time too yeah for sure this was one man guys go to byobcoach.com to check out Scott's book be your own body building coach I just didn't episode with kuba about planning your near and it may be think about your book and he mentioned your book too and he folded out and you know it's like you guys need to get copy of this okay but we we talked about setting up your year if you got you know say 45 weeks right now before the show you could do a whole lot of nothing with that or you could plan that out and and set yourself up you know how many weeks are we gonna let's work backward you know let how many weeks are we gonna need to die at how much time just give us to grow what kind of a health phase do we maybe need to drop in there in the middle and how do we adjust our training how do we adjust our nutrition and how do we set expectations for ourselves what can we reach you know and that reminds me a lot of a whole section of your book the your own body building coach so I strongly suggest that all you guys check it out and if you go to the link in the description you can get it from Scott directly off eBay and he will sign it for you get the hardcover that way or you just get the yeah you guys say something I think those might be sold out I'll have to go and look oh you might have sold those out okay I might have yeah not sure but yeah so someone can't find them then they're maybe sold out but I think but you still get the hardcover if not I'll put the link in that and if that's the case absolutely yeah yeah yeah or you can of course get the ebook from bbyobcoach.com and that's also where you can go to get the four to two training ebook for like 20 bucks guys it's literally nothing and even if you're not ready to do it now you can support Scott by buying the ebook save it read it later you know it's it's fun to understand and learn different training principles and ideas so you can do that and of course supplement source.ca for Canadians true nutrition dot com code think for 10% off if you're pumped up to do some training after listening to this episode then you're going to need a lot more protein go to true nutrition.com to get that as well as your intro workout your creatine and everything else and of course patreon thank you guys what patreon you guys are for an awesome we'll definitely get to some patreon stuff here in the future and for another episode here muscle minds with Scott Stevenson Scott McNeill and guys we'll see you soon thank you Scott as always. You're welcome brother.

Yeah, so have you seen any trends in that in the waves in some of you know, it's gone really bad for a while and then it's good for a while. Yeah, well given the time we've been around, we've seen a couple of times when the quality of drugs went down or availability changed. I've never seen it been as bad as it is now where we tested a lot of raw pollders that turn out to be anything but steroids. We're getting hundreds of raw pollders samples that turn out to not be steroids at all. But we used to get a lot of raw pollders directly from China from the manufacturers or distributors. And that sort of stopped. The most of the antibiotics are samples from China that are simply stopped coming in. It's been mostly that particle of people in China had been arrested that being involved with the biggest cannibalic certain manufacturing plant. And a lot of people went down with them, so everybody's pretty anxious about starting manufacturing. Sure. What's up guys, welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I'm Scott McNally and all of our programming. It's brought to you by you the people of Patreon. Thank you very much for your support. We are brought to you by evalblut analysis.com. You can get your lab work done by Dave if you're in the UK. And hey, if you're in the UK, you can get some great health supplements from Strom, Sports, Nutrition. They've got some great health stacks, especially if you're on cycle. And they're available here in the US now too. We're also brought to you by SupplementSource.ca for Canadians. Great deals that change week to week in Canada. And of course, truenutrition.com use our code. Think to get 10% off all your basic body building supplements like protein powder, creatin, interwork out, all of that. Dave, I am freaking pumped today. This is going to be epic. We have Peter Magic joining us from Genoshik. Dude, you are basically a legend at this point, Peter. Well, thank you. I really do appreciate that. I've been doing this since I've been 17 years old. So it's quite a while for me as well. And I'm glad I finally made it to the legendary stuff. How long have you guys been? Let me first say this. Let me just kind of give you a little bit of an intro. So back when I was younger, we used to be able to test antibiotics steroids domestically, not a problem. And we had a lot of peer reviews, people sending in samples, labs sending in samples. Around 2007, ish or so. We had something that went down called Operation Raw Deal. And as a result, a bunch of domestic labs were busted. And our ability to test antibiotics derides became knocked off. We were no longer able to do it. So basically, we're just kind of shooting in the dark here. It is a long period of time until Genoshik came out. But now we can send our stuff out to get everything tested and be assured that, you know, we're getting the quality. We're getting the safety that we want out of unregulated, you know, anabolic steroid. And that's where you come into play. How long have you been doing this for now? Well, I'm not really sure if it was 2012 or 2013 when I started, but it's been roughly about a time. I would like to apologize for not being available right away in 2007, but I was only 13. So that didn't work right away. Yeah, no problem. I started doing this pretty young because I was into the powerlifting and bodybuilding scene a little bit. I had a lot of friends from the field. So, and they all had the same issue as you said. They had no way of knowing whether the stuff they were buying was the real day or not. And like everyone, the constant worry was whatever it's something else. I've got to grow what if I'm going to grow huge dates, whatever. They simply nobody really knew anything and they had to guess. So I figured this can't be that difficult. So I started, I figured at the local university, well, local from a couple hundred kilometers away. They had a quick month that was a friend who could help with that. So we started to do tests for friends for being money, basically the expenses plus a couple of beers for us. Just so they have a rough idea, weather, what they're using is what they paid for, what they expect or not. Okay, and it just took off from there. It continued to grow. You guys are well staffed now. You're not alone here. You're running, like all sorts of, I know you're running all sorts of tests. Can you give us some examples? What are the most popular testing that you guys do on a daily basis? Well, there's 30 of us over 30 of us at this point. Yeah, we received hundreds of samples every day. So it's pretty crazy. And we mostly, the most of the samples over 70% or 80% of them, they're mostly peptide hormones. Which became extremely popular in the recent years, especially with the advanced advance of GLP1 peptides, the white lost drugs. So there are a huge part of our business, but the 20 to 30% it's mostly the antibiotics, which are staple where by far the biggest lab in the world who does an anaerobic storage testing, in most of the countries, it's not even legally possible. There's only a couple of countries in Europe where it's actually legally possible to do this sort of test. And there's only a couple of other labs that do this. So for us it's mostly anaerobic steroids, then it's the peptides. And then of course we do everything else that might interest people. So we do hairlost drugs. We do a lot of experimental medicines, where pretty famous in the orphaned drug groups, like there's a couple of there's people who have some sort of disease that the drug is not available for, but there are a couple of drugs that are being investigated. So they procure this drug through various means, and they have us. That's them very far, very far, very far whether it's, whether they're really getting what they had custom made and stuff like that. We do a lot of interesting work in that regard. You know, the steroids is always the 40, 50 most common andabolic steroids all over again and again. And again, here and there you get an exotic ester here or something, something more rare. But an actual research sort of stuff, the actual difficult part of the business is dealing with the novel drugs and stuff like that. All right. Yeah, that can only imagine how busy you guys are. And we've got a bunch of stuff where we want to dig into actually talking about testing, but before we did, you know, with all of that said, do you see yourself as more of a like a scientist or a watchdog or an educator? Where do you see yourself fitting in in our culture? Well, I hope I could call myself a scientist. I don't feel calling myself a watchdog is appropriate. That's not my work. That's not what I do. I just provide people with the results and it's up to the people themselves to police the environment they are in. So I just give the information to people and they need to interpret them, which I will gladly help, but it's still, you know, there's always going to be stuff like, okay, he sent the people, when the people will claim he sent in a different sample etc. We need more independent testing, blind test, and that's something that the testing institution is unable to provide. That's what the, what the actual users, the people who buy stuff, who watch the reports, who get the stuff tested themselves, that's up to them. So I'm definitely not a watchdog about an educator. I tried, I tried to explain the testing to people, so they can grasp on how it works, what's important for them, but still that's not the main thing I do. I just get in, get in samples and try to provide a result that are easy to comprehend. That's why we keep the reports like really, really simple. I myself prefer the science beyond it, the most like dealing with the difficult samples, figuring something, figuring something out. That's the stuff I love, and that's mostly what I'm doing at the moment, the routing test, like the unabolic stress test, the test and anti 215. That doesn't really warrant my attention at this point, we have excellent personnel that can handle the common stuff perfectly. If they're unsure, they're not 20 multitasking, so we're in deep in red on the top that particle sample, because we ran so many tests on it, we run into negative profit, which happens quite often. When my stuff does like something they prefer to over-test the sample, I mostly deal with stuff when there's some issue that they can handle by themselves at this point. Have you ever had anybody come back with like a negative test, have you ever had anybody like try to bribe you or threaten you or anything like that, like hey bro, you can't put this information out there. I'm not really sure whether it's been 100 or 1000 stuff times. I know in the very early days there was a lot of argument around legitimacy. In the very early days when you were like when you were only 17, 18 and you first started, there were a lot of people question illegitimacy over here. Obviously time is proven that to be incorrect, but at the time obviously people were like oh he's getting back under from labs, he's getting nissies getting that. There were a lot of that flowing around in the early days, but I think the consistency of the business to fact that he's still here 12 or 13 years later is what you've just out traded a lot of that mistrust, because you're still here, you still go and you still produce some results. Yeah, I mean I do understand the skepticism because when I see I see new analytical labs pop up basically every week now and roughly 95% of the mar associated with someone. And I do understand the skepticism pretty well. I tried really hard to convince people back then, it didn't always work well, so at some point. At some point I just decided to go okay, so time will tell and then the year of five years, ten years past and they're like okay, so I guess time told it's been a lot of people they assume that I'm associated with someone, but it always turned out that my customers they come and go the big labs. It's been around for to see a lot of big names come and go and go and everyone when someone associated me to be associated with them, it turned out to be complete nonsense because you're still here they're gone. Yeah, the brides well it never really made sense to me because I was pretty proud back then and I'm still so it never occurred to me to accept the bribe I would think less of myself I couldn't have that right. But at some point the business turned out so profitable that it's impleted make no sense to erase the business for an impractical sense. Most of the labs, most of the manufacturers, distributors etc. they're much smaller than my company at this point and it would be it would be a rather difficult not only risking the business but we're all these companies so how. It's not quite possible to accept the bribe for a company that if I accepted bribe as a private person that would be the best thing ever for the law enforcement which doesn't particularly like my enjoy my line of business and make me accepting bribes it would be illegal. First and foremost second they could make they could accuse me of being associated with black market. One does that set where which could be interpreted in the court of law and terrible terrible by for me so it's simply not what the risk. But the people they try to bribe me all the time it's pretty insulting at this point but we just try to refuse in a calm manner. The actual business policy is to not let me talk to people who try that because I get angry easily. We've used to go a lot of threats to back and back and mostly the kiddo go so but once people understood that it's not just it was it stopped being a one man company the people understood that. If they try to threaten me I can actually push back I can actually report that and if someone in the black market is threatening people from some company the law enforcement is going to take a bite at them. Even if something happened there the company simply goes on there's 30 people in here and so some time roughly four or five years ago the threats they completely stopped or at least I'm not getting to the miles where people actually threaten us I'm not doing the miles most of the time so who knows what they're hiding from me. I'm sorry if you don't mind what point did the company change from you and a mate in a lab testing for your friends did did you get to a point where you go you know what there's a business here. Or did it just slowly evolve and then you were like shit actually I've created a business because I mean I assume originally it wasn't particularly the jittermise it was just a friend testing when he caught in the lab and that was that was it and then. As volume increase you were like right we need to get a little bit more organized we need to get a little bit more legit or. Did you build it as a legit company from the ground up from the very first day. Oh no like I said it's been mostly as a service to my friends. So we were doing it basically for being money we had a couple of years of profit and that was it. But one of my friends from the US he was like okay I'm gonna have this to stay and that's to stay at the even that that's to it you know because they are your cheap as a whole. And as an Eastern European whole so okay okay bad I love you so it's not gonna be 20 bucks for you is gonna be 60. For sample and that's the exact moment it's turned into a business he was pretty mad afterwards but he paid never to last. Hey 60 would still be a deal. I would have taken that you know. Yeah but it's been it's been pretty early on it must've been 2013 at most so about. Yeah that's what we started making making some actual profit and the people my friends they recommended me further. So I kept the price and okay so we needed to deal with more samples with more emails. Oh dealing with more difficulties so we charge the people more. And I actually it was untenable to keep doing this in the university so I started saving my share of the money. So I could start my own lab and we switched from the ice which from the US university labs to my own pretty early on. So that's where most of the money went and that's when it transformed into the business. Hmm yeah so back to the actual testing and you know we were talking about like people that were getting results that they weren't happy with. I have you ever seen like really serious issues with a product like contamination something like totally wrong. Something where the user's health could have been at serious risk had you not found this out. Well we're not saying stuff like that often but we've had a lot some block this this week this very week. We had I don't have it with me but we had this mom jar of pan you know there's a potato in a pan. Yeah we keep in or something like that is called I'm not richer and we tested it and there was no tears of potato in there. And we were like okay that's weird because the pan itself it looked pretty pretty well we didn't expect it to be a fake but we saw something in there. And we duck we duck we try to figure out what it is and it turned out to be in Zulayne in Zulayne gr. Glarkin I'm not sure if I'm pronouncing it right I've never heard that word in English but but a format in turn out. Yeah yeah it's got it can't I in Zulayne we don't know the dose we cannot test the dose without having a stand out for that one in a finished product. So in Zulayne while it is potentially we've seen some awesome pig pants that were really bought in Zulayne. So if you already on awesome pig you're in for a bad time that's some no job loading not being able to take it for a week but it's not going to kill you but you screw up with in Zulayne you there doesn't actually risk of death there. So we've seen that and then off the top of my head there's been it's not been a single location where people who are actually manufacturing you know clenpo terror tablets. They did not quite comprehend what microgram is so they made 40 milligram which could turn out to be potentially less well. And I'm really glad I'm really glad that we called sort of stuff like that like when the actual manufacturer had it tested. Yeah before they put it on the market and we like no dude to stop this don't let any of this get anyway because you're gonna be in for a very very bad time. So we don't have. We don't have to be massively increased is profit much. Yeah one tablet will break down to an entire bottle at that point you know. Yeah yeah I mean I'm I'm I'm really glad the guy he the guy who actually this happened for happened to he had really good. Oh how do I put it. He was used to having everything tested before he sold it and it saved his eyes in this case because you know you put something like this between the people. There's gonna be. But I'm cost and that's gonna start an investigation and he would get in into a world of trouble and you don't want to do that to your clients I assume. So we do see we do see stuff like this. That's a here and that's incredible. I want to jump forward and talk about it talk you know before I do though I do want to mention one thing when we were talking about the bribes. You know the potential or rumors of. I would say this the number one way to check you would be to do our own testing if I sent you. Let's say that you had a testing company that was you know getting bride if I were to then buy their product or whatever and then I send you an unlabeled. Vio you can't know who's that is and you're gonna give me the results so like I just I wanted to throw that up there that we can keep you in check by doing our own testing and not just relying on COAs that we see online you know what I'm saying. Exactly. I always tell the people setting blind samples. Yes, they do the samples by yourself. I mean you can you can put half cooking oil half sample and you'll know we are sell and then you're sending the original sample to and if it's not the results on my chart, you know someone somewhere is growing up. Yeah. Hey, what's going on guys? Just a quick shot out to true nutrition. I figured I bring you to the home gym here so welcome and I just wanted to show you my order so nothing big deal. I've got a few pounds of the cold filtered weight ISO. I'm a big fan of the cookie butter flavor. I've been on this this year. This is like then my favorite but they've got a bunch of different flavors. So if you're interested in something else just check them out. It's a very light protein overall. It's not going to blow your digestion down. It's not going to cause a bunch of water retention. This is the kind of protein that I suggest to people who are doing a contest crap. They've got all your basic bodybuilding supplements like creatin. They've got great intro workout, highly brand-sick leg dexter and which is the high end and then they've got the cheaper stuff like carbolo. Like anybody can afford that. It of course use our code. Think it'll get you 10% off. They really kicked up. It used to only be 5% now. You get 10% off if you use the code and it throws some money our way to. So it definitely helps the podcast out of time. Might be a buck here and there, but you know if you guys all use the code it definitely adds up. And you have been using the code. So thank you for that. Let's get back to the podcast, but thank you for hanging out with me here in the home gym. What's up Dave? We're very quick one. Have you seen a trend in, I mean obviously this probably going to be about a 1050% margin on dosing because it will be quite, I would have thought dosing would be quite very well. But have you seen any trends in the quality of drugs in general? So obviously more recently there's been raw shortages coming out of China. So have you seen an increase in incorrectly labeled or incorrectly dosedugs more recently than you had saved the previous 12 months? Have you seen patterns like that where there's a because I would imagine and I don't know this is particularly just down to you. I mean obviously you are a large operation, but for a while we we sort of seen in general from user feedback we've had a fairly stable market when it came to quality of drugs drugs seem to be reasonably good. Yeah. Generally speaking decent quality well dose and then obviously with the shortages things seem to have gone a riot again prior to that quality of drugs seem to be in the bin. Has that changed? Yeah. So have you seen any trends in that in the waves in sort of you know it's gone really bad for a while and then it's good for a while. Yeah. Well given the time we've been around we've seen a couple of scoupl off times when the quality of drugs went down or availability changed. But to put it mildly and excuse my fringe in the past couple of months it winds completely down the shitta if I may. No no you don't have no. Yeah. I've never seen it been as bad as it is now where we're testing a lot of rope holders that turn out to be anything but steroids. We we we're seeing a lot of vitamin it talk of aero acetate which is vitamin E being sold as steroids we're seeing paracetamol being sold as I don't know what a central on we're seeing we're getting a hundred of roll point samples that turn out to not be steroids at all. Like we get we get we get an order of twenty samples of twenty partners and not a single one of them turn out to be a steroid. So it's never been as bad as this everyone's pretty desperate to find some source of the raw material materials. And then there's a lot of places a lot of people who don't test of whom I've gotten I I'm hyperteratized in here but they might gotten 10 bags of something three bags turned out well and seven didn't but they didn't know because they tested only one of them. And then they make tablets out of that or they make all is out of that and then we we're seeing all the tablets that don't contain nothing at all. So yeah, what we're seeing right now with anabolic steroids where it's it's complete in my hand. We've never seen it as bad as it is right now throw all materials there's really a real scarcity at this moment that's being getting worse and worse. So so so the development in the past couple of months I would say it's it might be roughly a year it's getting worse and worse. Wow yeah we've been excuse me we've been watching that whole progression along the way and we've been trying to track down like exactly what's going on. You know we've heard all sorts of stories about this precursor is an available we've heard stories of that a lot of places in China are getting shut down raw producers have you had any kind of insight into what the big change was all about. I do have a I do have a rather good idea it's been mostly that particle people in China had been arrested that been involved with the biggest the anabolic third manufacturing plant and a lot of people went down with them so everybody's pretty anxious about starting manufacturing keeping warehouses and that. I want to be putting out names but it's both been caused by single major arrest that lot too many arrests in China. Wow okay there's that's some news for a state because we we didn't we didn't know that we've been trying to get into this and and find out I know that you know having followed you and paid attention to things you know the work you've done. I've heard you say that you ask is your number one market then China where everything's being created is number two. You know what what kind of changes are you seeing there are you saying like that some of the raw powders that they're directly sending out are are coming back as bad from the source or you say and more that like the things that are fake or underdosed are people that received the raw powder and then send it to you. Well we used to get a lot of raw powders directly from China from the manufacturers or distributors and that sort of stopped the most of the anabolic steroids samples from China that is simply stopped coming. So what we're where we're getting most of the anabolic steroids sample is anywhere but China. How basically are anabolic steroids all this or analyze all this from China. Let's say they dropped to five to ten percent of what they used to be compared to a year or two ago. Yeah which is huge considering the amount of work you guys are doing now. I mean are you seeing anybody else pick up this slack like Turkey and Dia are there any labs in other countries that are so nobody stepped up to the market yet. Exactly that's been those been no influx for all manufacturers for money out of country so far. Wow this sounds bleak Dave. Hmm. Quickly or question if you don't mind. In the UK obviously the Laura Rasteroids is a bit unusual. Testing samples provided by a private individual is no problem. Perfectly they are called that can be done easily over here. Where it gets tricky and this is the bit that I found interesting. There would be a potential viewpoint here that if you were receiving raw from a manufacturer that you could be implemented in support in the supply. As that being do you have any legal grey areas around actually receiving the raw powders or is that just it's fine each because it doesn't evolve you with a sample it's quite small. Well the volume of the sample is quite small we don't we don't need a lot of sample for the testing and the law here we we have the paperwork for unlimited import export handling and everything of this. So if I wanted to import 550 tons of trend blog right here right now there would be no legal white to stop us from doing so. We of course we of course don't abuse the system because we want to keep the relationships with the author. Yes. As as good as possible we we don't screw around like that but technically the paperwork we have is completely unlimited and every possible regard. Yeah. I know that the it was never tested so no one knew it would really be but the general consensus was if you start receiving raw as a testing up here that they would implement you in support in the supply. No no such thing over here we receive a lot of raw materials some here and there a simple mistake like instead of sending one gram of a sample we received one killer. It happens here and there and the customs they know that because all our mail we received with a lot of scheduled chemicals. Yeah and the customs they check each and every mail of us and we need to declare it properly. So they know exactly what we're important. Because we need to keep the evidence of import. Get in rate of the samples our situation etc. So we do produce roughly 10,000 pages of paperwork every. Oh, guys. Thank you. I do have like 30 people on staff because that doesn't sound like the fun part of the job. That that certainly isn't. I've got one more one more question on on the issue with Ros currently. How common is it to see like a pristine. Primo sample and master on a nett because I'm seeing those as being the two most difficult ones to get and from my end of things I'm seeing a lot of labs that aren't carrying it. I'm seeing labs that are doubling their pricing. And labs also that are saying hey there's no problem we're going to sell it to you at the same price it's always been which definitely raises my eyebrow. Well, there's this major issue with the fact we don't know what most of the antibody storage samples are supposed to be. We push people strongly towards sending those blind. So we don't know if the oil was supposed to be 32.000 gr. test propionite or 100 primal. We can guess that it was not supposed to be the 30m gr. test be but. So for most of the samples we don't know we don't want to know what it's supposed to be because if we don't know it and without the people it increases you know the trust in our work. And but generally we're seeing the primal and master their fact a lot less than what would assume. Okay. I mean I like to tell the story a lot but your biggest risk of getting fake primal is getting those cool tiny rhymeable and amps from buyer. If you're getting those you you're putting yourself in a huge risk of getting a cooking oil in a while in an expensive ampoule. Okay. So a lot of those we're seeing they contain nothing but oil inside. So that's that's an interesting tidbit of what we're seeing but generally the. Master and primal oils they're not fake more than other oils. Of course there's a bias if the people are already sending the. The samples to us then there the people who know that there's possibility of testing stuff then the people who can use the internet to Google to look for the reviewed. So that's the bias that we what we're seeing is cream of the crop you know we're not we're not going to get an oil been sold in a basambat alley. So that's a huge bias in the so we're seeing cream of the crop but from what we're saying the must and primal oils they're not fake more than anything than any other stuff. Okay. And that's assuming that yeah so that makes sense as long as that's what they're if I'm sending you something to tell me hey you got 250 milligrams test sip on the nose. But I'm saying oh man that was supposed to be primo that's that's another story right. Yeah yeah we don't we only one samples to be labeled by numbers like one to three ABCD if we don't care the the the last we know about the sample the sample name the manufacturer the batch the last type in there is for us when you shoot the right. So all right. Yeah. One one last question to is you know what's what's one thing that you wish the steroid using community new about you know basically doing the things that we do using the things that we use to to reach our goals and bodybuilding when it comes to PEDs. While what I like to tell people is that you only got one health so stay as safe as possible and really consider what what you're doing. What's necessary, et cetera, just there's there's you can always do more anabolic later on, but you can save up how to once you screw it up. And the simpler you keep stuff the better for you, but also I'm a huge I'm a huge fan of not touching anything that doesn't have at least 40 years of medical research on human. You know the testosterone human growth hormone even in the land are extremely well researched compounds. People know exactly what happens when you use them et cetera et cetera would risk they carry. They're like they're well known compounds, but in every field and bodybuilding, especially you get new compounds popping up every year that's supposed to do something interesting call. But just those molecules are not studied, the people cannot know what really are the long term effects of doing that what and research stars might be the most worrisome trend I'm seeing in every community around is that they hope on every new stuff. And they don't consider the risk so risk so with the anabolic steroids that are well researched if you really do need to use them to achieve your goals just stay as reasonable and as safe as possible for people like the risk of you. Get in random labor or kidney cancer from testosterone or stuff like that are almost nil but getting it from research compound something something I don't want to mention in names but there's some well known ones that. People suspect of being pretty risky in this regard. Yeah. So basically don't try to reinvent the wheel just stay as safe as possible. I don't feel very. I don't feel like I should be advising people to watch I just give them data that have available but a lot of oftentimes I see people doing really on the internet I keep try to keep in touch in the community and see people doing very for some stuff which they could fix. In ways that are not as risky though are they're health or anything. Yeah, yeah, that's a big message that we try to send home to. If people are interested in getting testing if they want to follow along with any work that you're putting out what are the best ways to number one work with you in number two follow what you're doing and he releases that you have on reports and stuff like that. While we don't really have an unified channel for communication with the people we hope to have a new website soon but it's been. Like going to hell and back again with trying to get an issue of running. But so far the best way to get in touch with us and two business is to simply mail us at infoadionosheep.com. That's where we have a we have a team of people handling the emails so they they have orders they handle questions. They try to avoid as many questions as possible because we're not really qualified to provide advice on cycles on health stuff especially on the mailbox girls. And we cannot a lot of people there ask us for recommendations on brands and everything. Yeah, that's a big one. Yeah, and we try to tell the like no it really can do that you know what sort of a testing lab would do. If ever tested lab is advice in you is a recommend in someone that's a big red flag for me. Yeah, that's like okay. Yeah, they're going to be as there's like 95% that this lab is going to be associated with them. You see it all the time there's a testing lab nobody ever heard of but from out of nowhere some other lab manufacturer vendor they pop up and all the testing is from the single lab nobody ever heard of. So that's a very proud. Yeah exactly. I mean I was the met. I won't recommend branding around you like that in the coaching and stuff because it's like you say you're guilty by association. Yeah, but you also lose your professionalism as a testing organization. It's like when we do the blogs we don't recommend any brands will recommend types of supplements to support health but we won't recommend brands. Exactly to me then if you're recommending a brand and people are going why you recommend that band is it because you're getting paid by that brand to do that. What I so I would rather recommend the ingredients the make that product and then they can go and source the product they want. Yeah, not only is a very unprofessional. Given that these are scheduled compounds most of the time and everything it could put us and like a league responsibility sort of situations. So I would like to avoid it to but the biggest part for me is it would be unprofessional. Send it my way I'll deal with I'll deal with that cycle much. Well thank you for taking the time to hang out with us man we understand that you're super busy over there. This has been extremely insightful man and we both really appreciate it. I'm sure that our listeners are going to appreciate it too. Well thank you to it's been a great pleasure talking with you. Guys we've got Peter magic here from genosik had over get everything tested be safe and for another episode of the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I'm Scott McNalley we'll see you soon.

that you mentioned when we take a certain guy up to a certain body weight, and we kind of ruin their ability to put on muscle now. We kind of look at the science crowd and they talk about P ratios, right? And some people in the science crowd would argue that no matter how fat that somebody may get, they still have the same ability to put on muscle now. This is something that I don't necessarily 100% see play out in the real world. That kind of want to pick your brain on kind of what you've seen as well, because it seems like you agree from what you're saying. Yeah, I mean, there's no absolute like you said, but just what I found is is that a lot of people, if you take somebody, and I think a lot of us, a lot of the audience that you have here in your show and a lot of the audience that I have, because it's the vast majority of people that make up Jim Goers, athletes, bodybuilders, competitive, or otherwise, are going to be people with more average genetics, you know? And I've found that the more fat you put on, the more fat you put on. And even if you were to continue growing muscle with that, you're going to have to work that much harder to get the fat off. And, you know, earlier on, I can say the decade ago, I would force people a lot harder. I would push them a lot harder than I do. But I'd put a lot more body fat on in order to get those gains. But if they don't have the ability to train hard enough to make use of that, which a lot of people don't, no matter how much gear they're taking, or how much food I have them eating, they're generally not going to maximize that. And even if they are super hard trainers, and they've got everything dialed in, they're getting the right dose of intensity and volume, it still is counterproductive to put on too much fat. I found that if I can keep somebody leaner, I can keep them growing longer. And let's just say that, you know, for instance, I'm picturing one guy that I'm working with now. We started, he hired me around the beginning of the year. I believe it was, if not, a little bit before that. And his goal is to compete in November. So anyway, he's still pretty lean right now. He's incredible shape. He still has cuts in his legs, still has his abs, like no lower back fat at all. Nothing's like hanging over his trunks from behind. I would put him at like a super conservative 12 weeks out, meaning I could get him in shape in about seven weeks, if I absolutely had it too. If we had to crunch down, we could do it. But conservatively, like 12 weeks, we could get him there. Now, if I were to push him up to super high body fat levels, then we would have to grind that much harder and cut things back that much further, that much sooner. Versus right now where he stands, we're recording this, I don't know when we'll come out, but we're recording this April 20th. And I mean, I see no reason that he can't still keep food high, that he can't continue to grow. We have him up at a decently high body weight and we're still gaining scale weight each week. He's still getting stronger each week. And I don't see any reason that we can't continue to push up versus if body fat was high, I'd have to start thinking, oh, well, what are we going to switch gears? When are we going to start to pull things back? And honestly, I'm a believer of actually being able to grow into the show too. And the leaner we keep somebody, the longer we can keep the food high, the more food you have going in while you're training hard, the more you're going to be able to grow muscle. So I think that ultimately, there's a middle ground there of being able to maintain some level of condition and keep performance high and do that for basically into the contest. And I could show you pictures of people that I've worked with even natural guys. One guy in particular, who's a, I use this guy as an example, he showed me, this is like 78 weeks after his contest prep, good friend of mine, Vachay, natural competitor, men's physique, small dude. And he had to die at heart. Always after he time we died, dude would have to go to Keto and he'd be doing a lot of cardio in order to get peeled. He showed me this picture was, he said he scouted. This is left picture is before the show. And the right picture was about seven weeks after the contest. Now keep in mind he didn't do any kind of reverse. He basically just started eating when he wanted and lost his condition after the contest. He still in like decent shape seven weeks after, but there's no question he gained muscle. If you want, I'll send you that before and after you could throw it up on the screen. There's no question that he made some substantial progress during this contest prep. And that's somebody who even had to die at really hard, although he down to Keto, tons of cardio, and he's natural. So it's not like while he was on PED, so that helped him grow in a deficit. There's no question in my mind that you don't need to just get somebody completely fat to get them growing muscle, even optimally. So I'd rather keep somebody growing long term maybe all the way into the show. Versus have a big blast off season, put on a ton of fat and then have to rip it down. Absolutely. And that was honestly the next question I was about to ask was, some people have some of that more long-term serve approach like John Jewett of saying, hey, you know the longer that we can kind of keep somebody in this end of ballic state, the more that we're going to have people put on muscle versus some people. Maybe like Dante in the past where he made a prescribed more to that blast and cruise sort of six weeks on four weeks or three weeks off type of approach. And the past where it's put on as much muscle train as hard as possible within this very short given sort of burst and then kind of take time off in the back end to recover. Either way, there's going to be some time spent on the back end to recover on that. And I do believe that like you mentioned, it's going to be probably a little mentally easier and a little bit mentally, it's going to make people feel like a bodybuilder because at the end of the day, blowing up like Lee Priest and Jay Color back in the day and kind of looking that way, at least why I've seen for a lot of my clients a lot of least, is not the best mental state to be in long term. It kind of does burn people out, you know, being in feeling chubby, not necessarily liking the way that they're looking in the mirror. But like, hey, I'm putting all this work. I'm putting in the same of my work as that guy who looks shredded, you know, year round, what's going wrong here. It's like, okay, well, maybe we have to take a step back with this or in clientele and really understand that hey, for them mentally, long term is probably going to be a better idea to keep them looking like a bodybuilder and I think that's a hard thing to kind of, you know, relate to somebody who's never competed before, especially as that process, like you mentioned, of growing and then growing into the show because the leaner that we can keep somebody during that offseason phase, the higher, like you said, the more potential that we have for refeed, stipe breaks and things like that, they're really going to help drive some more anoblism, even while somebody is in a period of long term core deficit. Now with that, there does come the discussion of protein because we've seen people talk about super high protein and takes and that being very beneficial, I know. That was very, very popular back in the early 2000s and 90s with coaches such as China, Nichols, you know, prescribing, crap toned their protein, but recently it seems like guys have really, really toned back on protein intake for sake of digestion. Now, obviously, no, the answer for majority of people's probably going to be in the middle ground, like most things in bodybuilding, however, from your opinion, have you ever seen, you know, higher protein intake be beneficial for somebody who's really looking to put on muscle and in offseason? Yeah, I think that, you know, once again, it's going to be individual, but I do try to push protein up where we can. And I don't go crazy with it, but, you know, I think of one person who really got me thinking about this years ago was somebody that I would consider to be a mentor in close friend, Rest in Peace, his name was Dave Calick. Dave Calick was a bodybuilder in the early 2000s and he coached a lot of people, especially West Coast, Stan McQuay, who was a fantastic bodybuilder in the early 2000s, that was coached by Dave through his whole career. Stan competed as, what was it? I think he started as a 202 before they had to 12. He went to 12, and I want to say he even did classic. He may have done open at one point as well, I can't remember that. But, you know, talking to Dave, I asked him, I was like, you know, what was the biggest difference in his diet from, you know, Stan McQuay at his absolute most like full blow-in look versus the more paired down looks. And he said it was the protein. He said I had him on like six ounces of protein. At his, I can't remember what it was, but at one of his smaller looks. And when he was bursting at the seams in 2012, he was eating ten ounces of protein per meal. You know, simple as that. That was the only thing that was different. You know, I think that this is part of the conversation where we're a PEDs do come into play. I do believe that we can assimilate more protein on PEDs. I also believe that the harder we train, the more we can drive nutrients into the muscle. I really truly do believe that. And if I can step back for just a minute, I think that, you know, so my, my take previously on, you know, staying on the leaner side, being able to continue growing, growing into the show, it's a conservative approach. It's a long-term approach. But if we can gain several pounds of muscle per year, doing that, that means that you might be 20 pounds up in three or four years, you know. So it still isn't effective approach. And I also mentioned that that particular idea or mindset serves a lot of your average people. You mentioned Dante pushing diets harder and absolutely like he drove the food up high. That food was to support people that were training at the upward end of maximum intensity, you know, with DC training. Not everybody is capable of doing what Dante put out for DC. In fact, I tried it years ago and all I did was get hurt. Like it made early on man. It made no sense to me. And Dante would have told me at that time too. Like, you stupid kid, you shouldn't even be doing this workout right now. You're not advanced enough. And then I probably would have given the finger and said that he was, you know, like, just not paying, you know, he didn't know. He didn't know me, maybe. Something like that. You know, you know me. But, you know, the reality is I did figure out high intensity later and it did make a lot more sense. So I just wanted to say that, you know, I don't know if I would consider your average DC trainer as being like the average person. I think that they have a leg up because back to what I was initially saying when we first started this conversation, I think that the harder you can train, the better you can make use of your nutrition and the better progress that you can make. So if you do have somebody who is like firing on all cylinders with a perfect DC plan and they're breaking records, you know, and beating the logbook each week, then they would probably be the person that would stand to make the best progress out of really pushing the food up high. You know, so I, you know, I'm all for that as well. So I just wanted to throw that up there too as a side note, but yeah, back to the protein thing. I mean, I think that, you know, once again, everybody's unique and I would start somebody out with, you know, maybe.

What's up guys, welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crossland. I'm Scott McNaley and all of our programming is brought to you by evalbloodanalysis.com. You can get your lab work done by Dave. If you're in the UK, you like that. You can go to Strom Sports Nutrition. I got the shirt on today. Go to Strom Sports in the US and the UK to get some great deals or you'll awesome health stacks, especially if you're on cycle. Turnutrition.com. Use our code, think over there. Thank you to everybody from Patreon. I think we have a couple of Patreon questions today and shout out to SupplementSource.ca. Our Canadian Peeps up there can get great deals on like label change product, short-dated stuff, Dave. You look really energetic today, man. No, I won't lost. We do have a bunch of stuff today, man. I've got some steroids in the news. Believe it or not, we haven't done that for a while. What are you? Yeah, it's been a while. We also have, of course, everybody's listening to questions and you guys are welcome to take part in the next show, just comment on YouTube and we will get to your questions. But before we did, I had a topic for you. Now, we've talked about this in various different ways before. But we do have a lot of new audience that tunes in all the time. The topic being the different asterisers of trend, just kind of taking it back to the basics. So first though, before we get into the actual asterisers, let's talk about trend and what are we talking here today? Like, what is it? What are we looking at? How strong is it? What's the anabolic andogenic ratio of trend? Why don't we start there? 500 to 500 versus what's testosterone? So five basically in every way, five times stronger. Yeah, and also has the highest binding affinity. So whereas the anabolic andogenic ratios were developed against testosterone, and they were developed on rat models. Actually went through this quite recently, gone the course. But they were developed on rat models. So the anabolic ratio, the anabolic value was based on development of a pelvic muscle in a rat and the anogenic value was based on the prostate enlargement in a rat. Yeah. And then it was comparative between the two. So the anabolic ratio was a comparative towards how anabolic compound would versus how anogenic it was. It wasn't didn't give any value to the overall strength of the drug. And then they revised it to the and that was single digits. It was like one to three, one to four, that sort of stuff. So some it could be if it was an anabolic one to a four under genic, it was four times more under genic, it was anabolic. Then it devised the 100 to 100 because they wanted to give some sort of comparison to drug strength in comparison to other drugs. So that's why it changed to 100 to 100 and versions of that. It's widely recognized now that it's not accurate, it is flawed, but they just use it as a loose guidelines to compare, you know, just as a start point. And that's a lot of use. I think it's just a nice easy way to get a very quick overview of how a drug is. So trend is a stronger drug by far than pretty much all over standard anabolic. There are methylated versions that are stronger etc. But trend itself is as a base compound is the strongest. Yeah. Generally we talk about using trend in a cut situation though. I mean, have there ever been times that you've used trend in an off season? I can't remember what you've said about that. I don't think you're a fan, right? I'm not a fan because of stress, but I do use it in power sports. Okay. But even then it's pre-comp, generally speaking, or plateau-breaking rather than a general sort of, you know, off season compound. Yeah. It's the highest binding affinity of all steroids. So it can attach to the receptor the strongest. With trend itself it attaches to a whole host of receptors. It's much more broad spectrum than a lot of other compounds, which is in part white. So impacting in other areas. So as an under on it, those dopamine transport proteins, but it also binds to the predosterone receptor and acts as a pregesting. So it stimulates that receptor. Add a greater rate than pregesterone itself does. It binds with the eaters and receptor making it more sensitive. It binds with 5AR lowering DHT, which is why it can be very, very instrumental in causing gino because DHT has a protective action against gino at the breast. Interesting. I'm really trying to take me memory. Yeah. Just don't. No, this is some good stuff. It binds with a cannaboid receptor, which is why we get this distance feeling. You know, when you feel removed from your loved ones and you feel slightly disassociated, emotionally with people. Yeah, and I have definitely gotten that on trend before, especially it's hard to tell when you're dieting. You don't even know what I mean, but I should have said it. Yeah, shit anyway, but yeah. It has a particularly strong impact on neuroanactivity. It lowers GABA. So it disrupts our neuroanregulation, which is why you get the anxiety and the overthinking. And there's thought that it has some impact on some of our areas as well. It has a direct impact with the kidneys and has been associated with cases of acute kidney injury. Now, just so people realize an A.K.I. or acute kidney injury isn't necessarily kidney damage. So it's a temporary situation with the kidneys, whereas kidney damages are permanent situation with the kidneys. But repetitive A.K.I.s can lead to damage. So there's quite a wide spectrum of things that does. It's metabolite, less for bloody ever. Which is why it's been picked up. We spoke about this last week. It was why it's been picked up in animals that are grazing around cattle because it comes out in their waste and then the plants get contaminated, then the animals eat and they get contaminated. Which is one of the reasons why athletes have used food and beef as a defense against having trend metabolites in their bloodstream for drug testing because it's actually possible. Spoiler alert that might be what we're talking about on drugs in the news later today. The brain impacts are quite astronomical, but it's still very infant in what we know. They have seen to increase up a bit, but a bit of a pothosis. Accelerate so you're a brain death, there we go. It's been described as on a line with Alzheimer's and then it's been misquoted. That's causing Alzheimer's. It doesn't cause Alzheimer's because it's damaged similar to that. Long term anxiety is an issue even post-use as well. It affects the immagglodier, which is our emotional control center and whether it's trend individually or on the bolics as a whole, but we've seen the mischaping and the reformation of the immagglodiers of physical changes in the immagglodier in the brain, physically, you know, actual size and shape and everything. Yeah, there's definitely, we spoke about this last week, unfortunately, the research that we were able to get onto this course, what she'd found out in brain impacts isn't willing to come on. Yeah, we tried guys, we tried to get asked to down. She just nod up for it. Accidemic nerves, they get very held over a barrel with anything they say, so that's very nervous about being an open question format because they know they can trip open, get crucified for it and actually represents or she works for Oslo University Hospital. You know, she's got a lot of responsibility in who she represents as well. So, a respect to appreciate it. Disappointed, but I'd respect it and appreciate the issue. And that said, we do have a really good interview coming up. So, you guys are going to tell me. Yeah, where did I tell you guys? You'll have to wait and see. David, let me ask you then. All right, so real, let's talk some real world with trend. Dosing wise, I'll tell you what, man, I would say that trend is one of the compounds where we've made a lot of advances as far as understanding how little we really need to get a good benefit from it when I started body building. It was often being dosed. Like just 400 a week across the board, that's what you were doing. Or 75 every other day was kind of also a common theme. So, I'd either see 400 a week total, 100 every other day kind of thing, or it used to come before that 75 every other day. Then my first actual contest, and I dosed it like that, right? My first prep I worked with a coach who had me do 50 every other day and guess what, man. So, you know, basically 200 every eight days, I did incredible with it. Like it was fantastic. And I realized, wow, I don't need to use as much. So, that was 2008, 2009, fast forward to today. Everybody is on board with low doses of trend. What would you say is the lowest effective dose of trend a week? I've seen females get benefits as low as 10 to 15 milligrams every of a day. I didn't even call that decently high if you're doing 15 every other day for female because that's still you know 60 every eight days. Yeah, that's both so. I'd have gone 50 a week, but yeah. You know, so even as low as 10 as well, but I would say probably 100 milligrams a whole week could still be effective in the right environment. Yeah, yeah, I'd agree with you there. Maybe for your more average person 150 a week. Yeah, I'd say if you're average person, I'd be looking more 150 to 200 somewhere in that bull park. Yeah, 150. And then maybe with some obviously tested there 200. Yeah, not like that. But I mean trend at 200 a week. I've seen that be very effective with a broad spectrum of body types on people. And I'll use that in the off season. Let's talk a little bit about the the differences there. And that's kind of what we were getting at here wasasters and applications. So, trend A is my preferred version, but you mentioned trend E. Yeah, man, I've seen like 200 in a off season be a nice dose for somebody who's just going to kind of run some for the next kind of just humming it along in the background, you know what I mean? I'll say an eight ten week phase of an off season. One of the problems with trend is that you can use it and get on with it well. And you can have that situation for several cycles. And then all of a sudden you'll do a cycle where you don't get on with it well and you end up with a lot of negative issues. And unfortunately from that point almost chances are you're never going to get on with it again. Obviously dose plays into this, you know, high doses. Yeah, you may get away with a lower dose, but it gets to a point. And this is to do with the accumulative effect within the brain. It gets to a point where you just can't cope with it anymore. Dude, I had the weirdest dreams the first time I took trend. The trend is I was waking up on and off all night. I was getting the crazy night sweats. And I was like having the most vivid crazy dreams all night long, man. I got fuck all of it. It's crazy. My good lady says I was a little bit removed and a little bit colder than I normally am. She says I'm a cold bastard anyway. But a little bit colder than I normally am emotionally. I should say you were a bit distant, but you're with not. It's a dick. No, I see it. I wasn't. And I took a large amount as well. And now I believe it was the real deal. I can't be for certain because I didn't test it. But the same batch brand was used by a pro friend of mine. And it was absolutely destroyed in him. Now, did you use was this high dose A server trend? Hentf. Okay. 1.5 grams. It's a lot of trend, man. That's a ridiculous amount. I try to, that's a stupid amount trend. I mean, the thing is I started. And got absolutely no feedback. So, hmm, try a bit more. Got more feedback. Try a bit more. Got more feedback. Yeah. Eventually I went now, but I'm not using it. I tried my full trend. Hey, he said you didn't like that either. You didn't. If that was real, you didn't notice that either. Three grams and nothing. Wait. Three. Millograms. Millograms. Okay. Three milligrams and nothing. Yeah. I had to, you know, I told the story before with methyl trying. I had to stop it just because I was like overheating so bad. And I did feel like it was irritating me. I wasn't a contest prep. But the honest truth is, man, I always kind of felt like a most likely, oh, we already going to be running trend ace in the last phase of a contest. Precora would be adding an oral. So if I'm going to add an oral in, I want to add something in different. Uh, methyl trend to me in a contest phase. Always felt redundant. And it still does today. I would like, I brought much rather go with Halo for instance. You know, somebody else. It's not a druggy. See very often anymore. Even in strengths circles. It's not something that crops up that much. You know, it still gives you a bit. But it's definitely not when it is popular as it used to be. Yeah. Yeah. I'd probably, I'd probably agree with you. I think I see the injectable methyl trend more frequently now. Then I actually see, or I just see it listed as like, I see trend based. Do you see that on lists? Yeah, I've been able to experience with the methyl I had injectable. So I've never had to anything else. But yeah, I didn't get anything from that, really. So again, so we crowd crack while you drugged possibly. I've mentioned it before. I'll say it again, just for anybody who's newer here. I've always found trend as easier to handle because if you don't like the way you're feeling from it, you can adjust pretty rapidly. You're not going to get the same level of build up as if you start running a, you know, a decent dose of trend E. And if you don't like the way you feel from that, it may take, you know, 10 days of not taking it anymore before you start to even begin getting relief. Or just the look, like if I want that, let's say that we're using a really slow dose contest wise, I consider 200 to be an average dose. And let's say that, say we're doing 150, 200 a week. And we know that we're getting good benefit from it and you're 14 days out. We have enough time there that if I were to turn that up to say 300 a week, still taking every other day, you would definitely notice the difference by the time we got to the show, you know. Yeah, I mean, you know, it's when it's, it peaks quicker. If you're super sensitive, it can be a bigger hit, but it's out quicker. So you get rid of it faster. Whereas the end can be slower to develop into a problem. But then when the problem's there, it's harder to get rid of it. It's well. So it is very much personal reference on that front. And then obviously you've got try and hacks, which is even slower. So try and hacks, what is the half life on and Haxle, Benzel, something. Okay, I'm fucking say it, hang on. Can we just say parable? We're going to make it easier. Okay, Haxle, Benzel, something carbonate is, you know, not that you really even need to know, some of this kind of stuff in order to be just Haxle, Benzel, something carbonate. I feel like I was missing a syllable. I don't think there's another bit in the minute as I, I'm fucking knows. It's parable, but all right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, those are, don't know, parable and was a trade name of Trin Haxle. It's the only commercial version that's been produced. And it was, I was good. Was it 76 milligrams or 78 milligrams? So weird. Yeah, I think it was 76. Oh, I did. I did miss a syllable. Haxle hydrobenzel carbonate. All right. Okay. There you go. Yeah. I looked it up Dave. 76 milligrams was the initial, so yeah, we were right on that. Yeah, said that it just started going to take some of the market. French company brought out. Yeah, in 1980, in France, in 1980, it was voluntarily discontinued by its manufacturer in 97. Yeah. It still exists as a factory drug. Does it? Yeah, the, uh, the Haxle does? Oh, not Haxle. No, I don't think Haxle does, but Trin does itself, doesn't it? Oh, yeah. Yeah. It was a rigidity. Yeah, it was originally, I think it was originally a treatment for osteoporosis and muscle wastage. I think that's what they originally released it for. Really? Okay. Huh. I didn't know that they actually used it. Oh, I guess Trin Haxle did use it. Yeah, ice, ice, and then snow. Uh, and I don't think, and ever been produced as a pharmaceutical drug. I think it's only the UGLs that produced, and yeah, Trin used to be so easy to get because we would make it ourselves. We had the Finna<|th|>s, carts, little cartridges. It was a little cartridge and it had all these little pellets in it and you used a paperclip to jam the pellets out. I think a grind them up. Uh, I better stop there. I don't think we can talk about the amount of BSA, the BU, add to it, and the coffee filters. No, no, no, no, no. It's really, really. Yeah. I mean, it's, it's going to increase products in, um, they can't have an effect on progesterone, generally speaking, unless you're progesterone, is ridiculously high. It's not going to have a huge negative effect on you. And to be fair, it's difficult to control anyway. So for the most part, I wouldn't worry about our side of things. More than anything is really the negative side is the emotional stuff. Um, and then obviously things like that, which it will promote. But it's made. All the other thing is, when you blood test, it will show us the issue, unless you do a sensitive blood test. Oh, that's a good point. So that's something that's not freely available in the UK. It is in the state. So it's not such an issue over there. But if you're UK based, I would recommend starting your cycle, getting your eastern German in place and then adding your trend. I was looking for the half life, um, which I just don't see it. So hey, I'm going to throw it out. I'm not familiar with our list. Yeah, yeah. 14 days. Oh, it's 14 days. Yeah, that's what's going to do. Jeez. It's a long, long way. It is. Which I think it's part white was so low dose when it was released. Yeah. It's just weird. Number 76. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not as as to what? I don't know. What do you have to do with? I don't know what they asked away is for hax, actually. I guess what have to it, my guess be pretty big. Yeah, for 14 days is going to be a fairly big, big, um, estimate. Chain. Yeah. All right. Well, uh, I hope you guys enjoyed our little chat on trend. Um, I, you know, it's crazy, man, because trend is so popular now. Like as far as like the mainstream knows what trend is. I hear people like in the the gun sports, uh, YouTube channels and stuff. They all joke around, you know, and they'll be like, oh, that guy looks like he's on trend. And these are people that have nothing to do with bodybuilding. Very different world we're in than 20 years ago. I think with the king actually had some to do with that. Oh, really. Okay. Well, he was he was quite broad spectrum. Wasn't he? wasn't just bodybuilding. Yeah. Um, and then it okay, man, they'd been using trend. So I think that's had some some drive to make any more known. Yeah. I won't talk you about more known. All right. Well, listen, we've got a bunch of stuff, including we've got steroids in the news. Dave. So we have an Olympic US Olympic sprinter who was slated for the 2028 Olympics that I got started taking place in Los Angeles, the 2028, a Los Angeles Olympic Games tested positive for trend belong in this article here. It's contaminated mate. I mean, that's very possible, right? He was a 200 meter semi final. Let's see. You know, the state's react following his men's student. So this is the picture. This is from 2024. Dude, imagine that, man. It would totally like these guys who are Olympic athletes have literally trained their entire lives. If he is taken out of this, he's 21 years old. Now, if he's taken out of this because of this, he is never going to be in the Olympics ever. You know what I'm saying? Because you won't be able to to hang on and be able to still be as competitive you know, at the next one. Hmm. Probably, but that might be why you was competitive. Yeah. Yeah. So what do they say here? They had a little bit about the trend. I was going to say it's usually a five year, but I'm not thinking of it. This is, let's see, the steroid test positive for can be used in livestock farming except the no fault ruling based on the explanation that he was contaminated from a bakery in central Florida by Oxdale. What's Oxdale? Literally what it is, tail of Ox. Oh, by would they put Oxdale in a baked good? Well, you do it as a soup and also as a stuff. So I'm not quite sure what it'd been used for. It might be a cultural thing. You know how certain like Jamaican food users, you know certain body parts of animals slightly different to other cultures. So it could have been so much to do with that. Could have been a cultural cuisine. I wonder how sensitive these tests are? Well, that's it. I'd love to know what the concentration was. Yeah, and I'm not seeing it listed here. But gosh, he was really good. Like he finished what is this? He finished, just let's see, from the Paris Olympics where he finished 19.99 behind Gold Medalist who was also a teammate. So it's like he's right right there is being really good. So what they've done is they've accepted that he's accepted that drug was in his system, but they've accepted that he didn't know it was there. What is banned? Yeah, so they'd bound him because he he's tested positive, but it looks like they've said it or they're on they've accepted and know something. So it looks like they're accepting that he knew it was, he's argued was he didn't know was there and they've gone that's very enough. But you're still responsible for what's in your body. So we're going to find you, but the bottom will only be excellent. Hey guys, here's a video of Victoria refilling our glass collagen jar that we keep next to our coffee maker. We had a scoop to our coffee each day. It's 29 grams of protein plus collagen is great for your connective tissue. This is Hydralized Beef Collagen from Trinutrition, user code think for additional savings. Alright, hey listen, we got a bunch of listener questions and if you guys want to take part of the next show then definitely comment on YouTube on the latest episode and we will do our best to get them on the next show and I try to get back to everybody. So, all right, check this out. This is actually from the Facebook group, but I thought I'd bring it here. So we do have a think big Facebook group if you guys want to join. A lot of like-minded people that watch the podcast, everybody's cool. Can you get a six pack on debol? Well, those 10 o'clock you can get a six pack on any drug if your issues your manager is correct and your diet is correct. So it's not impossible. I mean, I brought people into to to to come condition. No, I don't do a lot of it, but I have on deckers. So, and most people say, oh, you can't you can't you can't as long as you manage the negative impacts which is against the debol. It's an easy to measure a deal. Well, yeah, it's a bit much worse. Um, it does a rubber taser high rate so it can be a little bit awkward. But it's doable. Yeah. I think it depends too on how dense your av muscles are, you know? I think that's my thing people forget. Most killer development will make a more pronounced sooner. Dude, my first contest because I have a long torso and so my first show, my abs were very flat and it wasn't until I actually dried out that I had like a super definitive set of abs versus down the road. You could see a more like at into the off season as I was putting body fat on. But especially for newer guys too, lot people with long torso and then people who are just not developed a ton yet. They haven't done squats for the last decade. You know what I'm saying? They don't have as much core muscle. That's always been my problem. I just need to just dry out a little bit. Yeah, just a little bit. We just had to, yeah, pull a couple pounds of water. Yeah, I'm just like they even now. I'm just a bit wet. Yeah, just just drop it down to if you'd be good, man. Maybe awesome. On stage. All right. I'm sweeping it, but on stage. Viewer question, what advice do you and Dave have for motivation? Oh no, no, no, no. That's our uncle Dave's advice at the end of the show. Oh, you just mess that. Oh, come here, complete. All right. Sure did. All right. How about this one? I like to sit around three shots per week, 150 to 300 tests. E 50, premium 100. That seems to be a quite nice cycle to run with my Brazilian jiu-jitsu and staying my size. Balkan he likes to go about higher than that, like 900 tests, 500, Deka, a little bit of EQ, maybe some deep ball in there. And then he runs Tier T test between that at 150 milligrams per week. He says, can you guys talk about going off to get someone pregnant? What would it take? And what to look for, giving I'm been off and on blast and cruise like this for years? Well, first thing would be to get a sperm test and see where you are. Zero. I know where he's at. Yeah, big fat one. Then I would say you kind of try a T R T. I'm sorry, try a PCT. You know, it may work. The other option would be a correct T R T. So you can you test levels and range and then do a H H M G Pro call. So 2.53 in today, you H H G every day, 75, I've been using G every day. I'd also adding one gram of alcohol in daily. Yeah, some vitamin E and see where that gets you. Now what about using a sperm, like a kilometer and clomophane with this protocol? I'm not convinced there's much benefit if you're on T R T. I am convinced there's benefit if you're natural. Okay, but I don't see how increasing or attempting to increase L of SSH when you're on T R T is going to really benefit sperm production in lieu of having H C G and H M G in there. So you're just saying you think that the H C G H M G is going to be the more it will be inferior to those. I think so, yes, because you can you can definitely push the levels much higher because you're in control of the levels. Where I think if you were natural, so you post PCT, then yes, I see a benefit to things like provide on employment. The idea is obviously if you increase FSHs and then then you increase in sperm signaling directly. But there's the inhibit situation as well which is going to shut some localization down. So I'm not, I haven't seen any data of how effective it really is in the numbers format. So I can't be under percent, but my gut would say that if I was on T R T, I would go ACG H M G over adding a certain. If I was Nati, I would go certain. Okay, yeah, with people who are off, people who've come off all together running Kloomid and now I've had guys instead of Kloomid will use N Kloomid feed. Side effects are way lower, man. You get those compounds are kind of similar shape to estrogen. They're attaching to the same receptors. And I think we are getting some estrogen like sides, like feeling more emotional and stuff. But I'm fighting guys don't tend to get that as often. I did have one guy who was like super prone to anxiety and mental upset and he did have issues with and Kloomid feed. Even when we tried to cut the dose in half, started it 12.5 with down to like six. Yeah, I mean there's always going to be those allies that have bad reactions to compounds. It's, you know, what extreme reactions to compounds. And the same way there's always going to be those, I have extremely eye tolerance to compounds. Yeah, I mentioned, I don't think I mentioned it to you. I mentioned it on BSG. I work with a guy who was able to get his wife pregnant. We made some fantastic gains. He was up around like two ten, right, and with abs still. And so we tightened him up and then built the diet up, got him real strong. He came off everything, everything. And the, the going to a fertility clinic. And he needed to make sure that he was on point to deliver. So he's off everything. He ran a combo of Kloomid. He was doing this through his doctor to Kloomid, HMG and HCG that he's talking to his doctor about this through the whole thing. They're testing along the way. And get this man. He didn't lose any size. With that combo, his test wasn't great. But he stayed strong. He was able to maintain muscle, you know, and maintain strength through all of it. Well, it's also that's a statement to how goodies trading in a diet as well. Because he's foundations is all they didn't know what to do to do that. Yeah, yeah, that's true. There was one other thing I was going to mention, oh, in a retest, right? Like, if he's doing out his own without a doctor after he, say, tests comes out with, you know, zeros or whatever. And then he gets on your protocol with HMG, HCG, then maybe how long later would you wait to test your sperm again to see if you got swimmers? Six weeks. Okay. Eight weeks. That's a lot of fun. I'd go to a long, six weeks. Oh, just a quick explanation for those. Mobility is your swim is ability to swim. So how well they can move. Because obviously they have to get from you to morphology is the shape. And if you have mutated sperm, they're all a bit fucked up. Swimming in a circle. Then they swivel, yeah, one leg at one. You know, they then struggle to enter the egg. And the elk antie actually helps with morphology, helps your sperm be normal shaped. He did use elk r2. I believe he was in the injectable. So, all right. I'm working on a TNT for cycle three. Okay. Says 500 test E 300 EQ for 20 weeks. 10 milligrams per day of trend ACE for eight weeks, 50 milligrams of antivarphidolast eight weeks. What are your thoughts running 500 to 750 calorie deficit? So what do we think about the cycle? I guess he's asking. Say again. 500 test 300 EQ 20 weeks, 10 milligrams of trend ACE every day. So 70 a week for eight weeks and then 50 var for the last eight weeks. In a cool. Yeah. 550 Cal deficit. I don't know. I'm with the cycle. No, I presume the EQ's for each of your management because of the unreliability of mast. Yeah, that would make sense. And EQ is a very powerful way. In most people. No, I thought a little bit like white bother. I get it gives a bit but I would be more tempted to run it slightly higher but for the last few weeks rather than the lower dose for a longer period. But that's same antix really. I mean that's what's that's just personal opinion. Same with the overall, I'd probably run that short period. But other than that, I don't know. I mean there's nothing to do with the cycle. I would still want to get my estrogen shock that maybe six weeks in. So the calorie deficit is quite hard. So 50. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's see how he does with this. That's quite aggressive. But I was supposed to depends on how quickly he's wanting to drop. We had somebody say, my favorite two people I have never met plus Dave. But does that mean? It means that I'm a one currently, doesn't like me, but he likes you and I'm good with that. Who? But he said my favorite two people who else could be talking about? Like can't be me if he doesn't like, if he's a VX, losing me from that soon. I don't know. Christmas cabbage? Possibly. Yeah, don't know where the early is. Hey, if you can, if you get a chance to talk to him this week, would you see if he has time to fly out and come with me to the Olympia? You want him to go to the Olympia again? As long as you don't get him, drum can give him hope as like he did last time. You know, that was all on his own accord. We got to the airport. We got to the airport and I turned around when I was getting my luggage off the belt and he was gone. I did not see him for four days, Dave at the airport signing in any dark sunglasses on his his leaves were all a mess. That's all that's my story. So what? Hey, tell me. Well, ask him. He's older now. He said you bought the first round. Good Dave elaborate on the GH comment at the end of this episode. Dave said and I quote, we used to think that with GH the more the mirror, but we found out that it's in balance. That when it's in balance, it works much better. I don't remember anyone touching on that and I've been on GH and was hoping to push it some. But I'm at four are you and like what's going on here and don't I like what's going on here and don't feel a need to push it higher at the moment. Just curious if that's new information or if I just miss something somewhere. No, we've spoke about this a lot of times. GH is shown in studies to reduce athletic performance. It was originally thought that course hyperplasia, which is the you know reproduction of no muscle cells. It's then being discovered that's not sustained. Okay. And so GH dropped out of popularity has been a particularly direct muscle building product and and is now more of a complementary muscle building product in that it aids recovery. Also helps with fat management. But I think of GH's a rejuvenation product which is why it's so heavily used in the anti-aging crowd. Yeah. timing has a role as well. timing what do you mean? So GH PM is going to lean more into wars recovery. GH AM is going to lean more into fat loss. Okay. I don't see a big difference personally. I don't think that's a huge, I think I don't, yeah, I don't think it's huge massive, but I do think so. I do think so. Yeah, I found if you just take it you get like something out of it. I've got a couple guys that are running it pretty high right now into contests. Like we guys had done like one guy was doing really well with like 15 units in his off season. Like we're talking he's up a good hundred pounds from where we started and probably put on probably 50 pounds in a year of legit like dieting him down. He's a lot bigger. Anyway, we pulled it back to like four to six and now he's pretty getting closer to the show. We were pushing it up to 10. I want to see if we can get more fullness out of him leading in because he's a guy who like really super freaking compensates and holds a lot of extra fluid in the muscle. You do find a lot of the size of your GH is into so you're the war in the muscle. No, with that everybody, but there is a lot that will go on GH. I've put 23 pounds underneath. He come off and it's like, oh, I've lost 20 pounds. You know who I really want to talk to about that is Chase Irons. So I talked to Chase like at earlier on when he first started running really high GH and I'd love to get his perspective now on having done that for an extended period. Like I don't know how long it was, but it was a long time. I'm curious to know what's his take on it now dose like what does he think he got out of that that super high dosing because I will tell you this man. He definitely freaking blew up, but he was doing a lot of stuff. You have a kidney, did he stay blown up? Yeah, yeah, he's like a lot bigger now. So I'll be curious. So then the question would be why is he continuing with a GH? I don't know he might be. Oh, yeah. I thought he'd stopped. I thought you was any stopped. So yeah, no, I don't think he did. All right, we got a bunch of good stuff here. And Blunt forced time you said she was wondering if she was going to see Christmas cabbage again next week at the Olympia. So we'll see. All right, how about this one? Hey guys, new dude here about to try my second cycle 40 var 20 deba 50 days something relatively gentle just upping it easy and slowly exploring it. Just wondering how to time my liver supplements with this because I presume taking in a bunch of liver detox at the same time as the roiads runs the whole ruins the whole show. Not at all. First of all, we got to discuss the term roiads Dave. We don't always. We don't we don't use that term in the community. Do we? Is that a bad word now? Is that a bit like I won't say because I'll get shot without the other or the S word. Yeah, I feel like I feel like roiads is a word that people who don't use steroid cells. You're not you're not going to affect the the unabolic action by taking liver support in this lightest. So you can crack on them for as much to u dca and not get yourself as you want. What's going to happen if he's not using a test with this cycle? What's going to happen to his indibole. No, he's t-ball. Oh, sorry. I thought he's a d-ball. Yeah. 50 days or 50 days, six weeks? 50 days is more like eight weeks. Is it? Well, let's see eight times seven is 50. Seven weeks. Yeah, he might scrape through it. Yeah, I wouldn't call it ideal but he's new, you know, there's that. Yeah, he might scrape through it. It's not massive doses of the 60 milagron toe. Enough to shut him down, you know. Do we answer this or was it on another show? He said I posted a question a while back and didn't get an answer. Viewers can answer as well, which we didn't see any viewers comment yet. But he says, can you use trust alone as a test based instead of test? Obviously stacked with drier compounds throwing in. Thanks. In theory, yes, I've never seen somebody do it, but in theory, yes. So you're not using test on cycle. You're going to use that plus some other compounds like he seen other DHTs basically or, you know, DHTs with it. Yeah, I mean, in theory, yeah, he should work. I've never known anyone do it. Yeah, well, if he doesn't, maybe he should let us know. Hmm. All right. How about this one? I started running gear again after a 2.5 year hiatus, no tier T fully recovered. Before that, I was on blasting crews for three years. Now, I have started test sit at 875 milligrams a week and I'm working my way up to two grams of test only for 16 weeks. I tolerate test well and never needed an AI. My goal is to maximize size. How much fat burning effect can I expect from such a high test dose if any, I want to keep visible abs in the off season. Highest I've run is 1.2 grams plus 800 EQ. Thank you. Love the show. By the way, where the hell is Christmas cabbage? I'm just curious as to why he's gone such a high dose after being away for so long. It seems a bit overkill. I get what he's trying to achieve and I understand that side of it, but it just right, you could have done a couple of cycles getting up to that and probably grown very, very well with a lot of muscle memory and the fact that you're not needing so much could be enough for so long. Absolutely. So that's making me curious. Fat loss from test, now not real. From the increase muscle mass, yes, because you'll be increasing your baseline calorie burn because you've got more muscle mass, so yes, that will increase fat loss. Yeah. The ultimate fat control down to your diet, not the drug. Yeah, when he's in a deficit, trying to grow as much as he can, I wouldn't expect, you know, to lose a lot of fat from. If he's basing his estrogen response on the fat that he's done 1200 test an A under the Q. Then I would be very, very careful with the estrogen because the EQ will have slow, lower duration and quite significantly on that cycle. If you're doing test on its own, I'm not saying you're not, but if you're assumption that you're, or your determination, that your variation of your estrogen has come from that previous cycle of 1200 and 800, that isn't going to give you a fair gauge of what's going to happen on test only. Yeah. I told you before my story, Dave, of it now the doses weren't the same, but I ran 500, like fourth cycle, I think it was fifth cycle, 500 test 400 Norma DACA. It was British Dragon test E and Norma DACA at 400 per week. After that cycle, I was like, you know what, man, this shut me down so hard, so hard to recover from. I'm just going to run test only. I was taking 900 total milligrams last cycle. I'm just going to run a thousand test only. Same amount, quote more or less, right? Dude, it was bad news, man. I had terrible acne, terrible side effects, you know, it was not the same, you know what I mean, uping just going to high tests. So I'd be Larry, man. You know, there's, there's a lot of uncharted territory in this cycle, is what I would say. Yeah, I would as well. All right. Got a couple more. I hooked up with Dave this week. Really looking forward to working with him. Love the channel, the TRT plus segment has made me laugh, but that's my thing. Don't tell Dave. Name. Of Big Andy, Big Andy P. Andy, you are busted. You only can blame yourself. Andy Pane. Well, I don't know if he wants you to call him out like that on the internet. You don't understand? So he's already done it. All right. But first time you said the same people who call growth HGH call steroids, broids, LOL. Yeah, who says HGH? Dave, how much HGH are you taking? We want to GH? California. Yeah. I've got a pro shot at Saevo for because the miserable view is well, donate. Okay. So Zionic let us know. He said Chase is not currently on GH. All right. It's cured. Not saying. I can't know then. I run it high and didn't get much out. I mean, that's my personally's for instance. I'm seeing similar with others. I do think he will help in a combined scenario. But, uh, there'll be someone a prisoner no doubt. How about this one from VJ? He says, uh, Hey Scott, Dave, question on redda does reddit cause strength. Cycle stack food is remaining the same, but I'm experiencing a dip. Oh, there we go. A dip in strength while on redda at the very start of the dose of at one milligram a week. Yeah. Absolutely. If you start getting more depleted, you know, that all comes down to a few nutrition foods foods to same. But, obviously, the nutritional transits flow, isn't it? So that will have a effect on release. Yeah. I've actually that your blood sugar is not high, you know. You're probably not storing as much food glycogen in the muscle, you know? All of that. Yeah. I would say it shouldn't, you know what? To me though, Dave, this speaks as maybe there's a hole in his nutrition. I think that at one milligram per week, you shouldn't have. And I'm not going to speak for everybody. Everybody's different, but I would say in general, you should be able to combat this. Uh, number one, remember is your hydration. So make sure you get plenty of water in, make sure you get plenty of electrolytes in, make sure you're using salt with all your food. Make sure you get salt in in your pre-training meal, especially if you get some extra say like you get an extra leader of water in by the time you train and you increase your salt, that and itself should help to make somewhat of a difference. And then maybe consider stacking more. If without changing your total daily carbs, try maybe moving more of your carbs to a pre-workout situation and see what you get out of that. Hmm. Just this one idea. He also asked about something to do with hair. Can you guys also touch on hair, scalp, protection while on gear? Well, a joke choice is something to do with that. And then you've got a few options, depending on the joke choice. If you're using testosterone and experiencing hair loss, then you could look at finasteride. Yeah, he mentioned do test ride too. Yes. And then if you're using DHT's, you're probably going to have to more look at a topical block. Because there's no conversion, so you can't stop the conversion. So I would look more of a topical block. Though there's nothing wrong with being bold. Is this go? Nothing at all. I'll be there soon enough. Four heads getting bigger. I've always had a big forehead just so you know, Dave. Sorry, five heads getting bigger. I've been gifted with a large forehead all my life. Oh, oh, wow. Okay. So this was an anonymous member at the group posted this. He got his MRI results back. Here's here's what it says says the results impression. A superficial area of intermuscular edema in the right gluteus maximus muscle may reflect a recent intramuscular injection. Oh, oh, busted. Yeah, he says, uh, I have two options and say, ha ha. Yeah, I was rolling around on a lacrosse ball for a paraphera formus release and went too hard. Really irritated the tissue or say, yeah, I'm on TRT. No, I don't have a script. I appreciate you not writing it in my records, though, but he probably will. I hate hiding, but unfortunately, you never know when you're going to need a critical treatment or surgery and insurance says, oh, looks like you're a drug user and so we're denying you coverage of it. This at this critical moment of yours. I've never seen that happen to anybody, by the way. Like I've seen people who like literally had kidney issues and need a replacement and they still like, like if you were to abuse a recreational drug and have a problem, health wise, they'll still treat you for that. You know, and they still, I believe, will treat you with a S, too. I don't think that your insurance has the right to block you from that. Could he just say it was an event injection? Yeah, you could. Is that viable? Yeah. Yeah, I don't think they're going to deny you coverage, honestly. I don't think I've ever heard of that happening in any instance for being on gear or any, you know, recreational stuff either. Yeah, and he said one of his fears is he was like, forever, my doctor is cool anecdote. There are several others of my doctor dropped me or told me that he stopped that he would refuse treatment, blames, ailments on on test, etc. I'll be honest man, I wouldn't wait for my doctor to drop me. I would drop him. We're in a place now that if like you take your, you're going your, your portal for your health insurance and you can find a whole list of doctors that you can then look up and then doctors, there's like basically Google reviews now. You can go to see the reviews on your doctors to see what they look like. See pictures of me even get a feel for who you will go to. And yeah, it's a pain in the butt to have to go to different doctors and figure it out. But it's worth it. You have to put that footwork in, though. And they might not be able to do everything for you, but it is nice to be able to go in to get your physical to be able. Like I just had my calcium score done. There's things that it's nice to be able to get treatment and get recommendations, you know. The referrals. Thank you so much. I want to start a gear friendly doctor list. Yeah, that's not a bad idea. Mm hmm. And then we had that one more day. What was that? It was something along the lines of Uncle Dave's advice. I thought it was a good one. Oh wait, we did have one one more. My girlfriend is looking to lose fat. Yeah, we had a couple things on SLU. She is considering SLU. What are the pros and cons? She's tried a bunch of stuff. Um, not so much. You. Okay. We are from Denmark. So it's not easy to get our hands on redda or the other GLPs. Hey, listen, we do have, I can't mention it on YouTube, but we do have in affiliate that you can hear about on all of our other platforms. So definitely check that out for European places. Um, and I'll say, I've seen a couple interesting scenarios, David. I don't know what the mechanism of action is on this. I've seen acne in females on SLU. Okay. Three times now. What's up with that? Mm hmm. I'm surprised at the call. Get retin. You can get SLU. Yeah. Yeah, that is interesting. I'd say too, if like they've tried a bunch of stuff and things just aren't working, I would want to know why that is. Yeah, I might be looking at thyroid and HBA once see and hormones as well and just, yeah, yeah, there's no, actually, problem. Is there like a PCOS thing going on? Are you getting like super insulin resistant? And for some minute, can be a really like long road, you know, to try to get into good shape. Yeah, my wife says she wants to lose fat. So she says she's going to divorce him. Yeah, so probably be a lot less stressed, you know, a lot more relaxed. She's going to get she's going to get the fat out of her life by getting rid of it. It's kind of like lipo. You just put you just sign here. Yeah, you know. That's not very nice. Go. Is it you celebrate in the end of my marriage for them? Be your question. Uncle Days Advice, what advice do you and Dave have for motivation? I recently missed four weeks at the gym as I came down with the famous 2020 virus. Thank you for wording it that way. And it also gave me a chest infection in antibiotics were required. I started back at the gym a few days ago and while I am training and getting a pump, etc, I am mentally struggling to get into it. I just feel a bit, man, I'm getting all the food in and I love bodybuilding, but just feeling a bit mentally blank the last few days in the gym any advice. Take a picture of Scott. Pin it in a book, take the book with you and underneath that picture of Scott. Right, if I don't train I will look like this. It's a difficult one and I found in those situations going and just doing something and just been consistent with that process, you just start to get into it. But there is also times when, and I'm not saying this is the case in this scenario because I don't think it is, but there are times when people who are already training, they do fall out of love with it and they do start to struggle with motivation and they do end up forcing themselves to go to the gym in a way that they don't enjoy. I'm to a point where it becomes a negative experience around down, and those scenarios are going, well, why are you going then? Do something else? You don't have to lift weights to keep fit and healthy. There's a million spots that you can get involved with. It might be, you just need to try something different. It could just be the it is right different routine or, I think it might like trend, something different, like a different compound. It's right, not fast. Yeah, man. With a little bit of aqua poise, is that what you meant? No, it could be just doing a new workout program. It could even be as simple as change in the order of your exercises. So if you start with bench and retirement chest, do it last. Growth? It's just a 10 I U. On workout days. You know, just to add to that motivation. That the kind of advice we give here? If you want motivate from drugs, it would be M trend, Milburough. Oh yeah, there you go. That one, but no, you know, so sometimes it's just a case of change of things up a little bit. But I've never understood this mentality where people go to the gym on and on and on and on and on and just dislike it. Why you're torturing yourself like that? If you don't like something, then you're never going to commit to it or do it properly. So Ficement, you do like that gives you the benefit you're looking for. But at the same time, you can absolutely love bodybuilding and not love every workout of your life. We know. I think we all go through a stage where we think, fuck this shit, I'm going to go home and eat cake. I don't think there's a button on the planet hasn't gone to that point at some point. But that's usually short term. That usually only lasts, you know, a matter of a few weeks at the most. Whereas if you're being mum for mum for month, just like, you know, I don't really want to go. I'm not enjoying this. Why are you still torturing yourself doing that? Just find some of it different. Yeah, so he's only been feeling this way for the short time since he had gotten sick and so on. It's been four weeks that he came down with that sickness. And I will tell you, man, that sickness took me five years to bounce back from. And I'm still not back 100%. It was hard to feel a good groove again. It's been neat for me. Dave, I had to like, like, let go of my expectations of training. And I go back when I start losing motivation, I ask myself, like, what did I fall in love with bodybuilding for? I remind myself of like my early workouts and my parents' basement. And then I try to think about that going into the gym and having fun. And I might mean, like, you said, change things up, I might not even do my, maybe I think I know for me push pole legs. Just go to bed thinking that I need to do. And I need to beat this weight and all that. Dude, I might just do a bros split, you know, for the next week or two or whatever, just to get in there and get your body moving, get out what having had a positive experience, leaving glad that you went. And you will kind of rebuild that blunt force tanya said that motivation comes after momentum. I think that's true. You feel good. And then it reminds you like, oh, yeah, I'm going to go do that again. Well, the other thing as well is, are you deflated or demote if they had because you're comparing, say, performance from prior to illness to post? And you're just not there. Now, that's the case. I would really turn the workout on his head, so it's not comparable. Yeah. You know, so if you're a bench in 200 kilo before the illness and now you're an invention, one, 60, and that's really demoralizing you because life is strange, gone on week, then don't bench, use dumbbells. Or do a different format, so you can't compare. You see, Summa, check this out. He said, you can't think your way into a new way of thinking, but you can act your way into a new way of thinking. I would like this. Because I do think you can think you weren't a new way of actually, but I very much agree that if you intimidate an action, you will eventually believe in undo that action. If you, like, if you just like, if you just like, um, fake it till you make it, do you mean? A little bit, but not that extreme in what I mean in the sense is that if you go to the gym just like in this scenario, you just keep going to the gym eventually, you're going to get to the point where you're you're being productive and you're enjoying Summa. Or you should do. But, um, and if you start an action, so you do something as repetitive, it will then become part of your routine, it will become part of what you believe in and what you do and what is your, you know, your general structure. Yeah. But I do believe you can also cognitively program yourself if you put in a effort to behave in a different way as well. Yeah. Well, I hope that helps. Hey, one more thing, Dave. I just noticed something. I'm going to go back to our, uh, sprinter here. Check this out. So they said he wasn't untrained. Can you look at this picture for a minute and watch? I'm going to use our Think Big Body Building software here. Enhance. We enhance. Oh, yep. Enhance. Look at that shoulder. You think those that you think that those are, uh, injection marks for, I think that the B has, these, those are trademark, Dave. No, I think if anything that might be immunization marks, I think it was personally in my professional opinion as a podcaster. I think that those are the signs of trend abuse, well, sprinter. Okay. Right there. Okay. You choose not to agree with my professional opinion? I do. Is that what I'm understanding? It is. All right. Hey, what are you going on next? What's coming up? Pad course has got a couple of weeks to run. Then we're going to do a training online training seminar, which is only couple hours online training. You haven't done that before, have you? Yeah. So you simply part of pillars, but I was saying, don't really do the pillars anymore because nobody wants it. Uh, but a few people have asked to do the training section of that post the pet course. So I'm going to put one session on to going through training technique and by mechanics of that and everything. And then the next bad cool starts, middle trouble. Okay. How do people sign up for that if they're interested? Just contact us and make free socials. Okay. And I guess it's not that, oh, come to see me hang out at the Olympia guys. I'm going to be there now. I wasn't going to be there. And now I'm going to be there. In in Larktpart, thank you to you. Thank you to Patreon. Patreon is literally paying for the playing ticket, Dave. I thought to myself, you know what, man, the show is doing good. So Patreon can pay for you or trying to get. Yeah. The can't pay for a supercharger is that what you're going to say? Pro charger. Oh, sorry. Pro charger. Thank you. Seriously, I thought to do different things scoffews I thought to myself that with the show doing good, the best way that I could reinvest in it is to ask the live show. If it approach, I'll do. Yeah. I actually show up and be there to hang out with everybody who shows up to be able to meet us and someone hang out with the right-hand dusty. Yeah, it's not only that you mean about not letting the show contribute to this really seriously important life. People can people can't and have contributed to your pro charger. It's the fact that you waive it in my face. People have contributed to your pro charger funnet directly. The new have like 31 dollars from you on every week. The show that I support you and encourage you every week because you're such a dead weight. It's paying for you to go and hold not it at the Olympia with Ron and Dusty. Yeah. And I have to drive a slow truck. You have to drive in normal speed truck. It's what you're saying. That's the problem. Really normal speed. It's a bit quick in the normal speed. Okay. So you already have a little bit extra power. I honestly, Dave, I think that here's what I want to see. You deserve to take care of yourself. And I think that if we set up a little program for you. It's good to find like you can like you do your cardio every day for the next month. And then you're allowed to contribute to the pro charger fun. You know, something like that. Like, but first Dave has to meet his, his end of the bargain by doing his cardio. Dave has to meet his end of the bargain. What, you don't like this. You don't like having to put in work for your pro charger. Point out what we do is point it. We're going to try to get something special together for you guys next week. We'll see if it works out. Everybody who is in the academic fields is, you know, they, yeah, we'll see. We're going to do our best though. Check out Strong Sports Nutrition. We don't have a code over there. But you can use our code think over at Trinutrition.com for all your basic bodybuilding health supplements and and and performance supplements get great health stacks at strong supplement source.ca for Canadians. It's a great deal. It changed week to week Patriot. Thank you guys for your contribution to that. And thank you to, um, you've able to analysis for being part of our show. Dave, how's everything going to email nowadays? busy actually. Yeah. It's been busy. It's been good. Still still got a few little extra from the change over. But we're working for you. You did say you have more different tests available now. I'm just doing. Yeah. Oh, it's more yeah, including genetic market tests. Um, DNA testing, meth, meth, meth, DNA testing, which is the best. Okay. Balls of testing. Um, but also some intolerance testing as well. We've got available now as well. All right. I like that. And if they were to do DNA testing through you, that's private, privately owned versus if you do like I'd suggest guys if you go through like 23 and mean stuff like that, don't give them your real name because you don't own that information. And they have a record of your DNA on file for the rest of the time. So the meth late DNA we do is stuff like genetic cancer, market testing and things like that. That's great. A full a full DNA profile for every cancer we can do is 750 quid. Okay. It bloody expensive stuff. And it takes seven weeks. Well, that also tests for like cytokines, things like, uh, okay. So you can see like what your how your body breaks drugs down and things like that. There's there's also some that I say is quite broadspotion. Oh, yeah. Guys for another episode of the podcast leave us questions for the next show. We'll see you soon. Thanks Dave. I did it. Like there's some good, some good little cuts in some zooms in on your face. At certain key moments, zooms in on my face at the key moments. Makes it makes it fun Dave. And people agree people were like, hey, I like your guys. It's like honesty and your humility on the show. You guys aren't pretending to be something you're not, you know, trying to like talk all big and smoke, you know, blow smoke and smoke screen everybody. Don't we talk about them? A fucking god. You have to start seeing words like transmutation and let's talk a lot about the crab cycle today. It's a transmuggification. Transmuggification. Is that a real word? I have no idea. I'm just mad at the open piece of note. All right. Wanna if we have anybody with us? Let's see. And then I'll bring us in. Dave, I'm going to the Olympia at the end of next week. I think. Do I look like a cat? No, you don't actually look. I'm glad we've established that fact. Zionic is with us and Alexandria to of our normal viewers that hang out with us every time we go live. Do we have any issues with us? Do we have any normal viewers really? Dave, you nice to our listeners. Is anything normal about this show? No, no. If you're watching this show, there's probably something weird about you. Yeah. You're saying you don't quite right. I really. But that's just as much a reflection on us as it is you. Reflection on you. All right.

Exhaust had come out of pre-judging. Four ounces of chicken had a little bit of creamer rice. As my second meal of the day after pre-judging, and nothing else to rest the day until the show was over. And after pre-judging, after I talked to Adam, I laid down for probably two, two and a half hours and didn't. I was exhausted. And obviously I didn't want to get up and get ready for finals. I just didn't have the energy to do it. But like I said, there was that moment backstage where it's just like, this is do or die. You've been doing this for 28 years. And everything that you work for, you have not opportunity to make something out of it right now. So you either step up or somebody's gonna take it from you. Hey, what's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with Coach, Skip Hill and myself, Scott McNally. We've got a special bonus episode today. We are joined by Masters Olympia, Champ D'Orie and Heywood D'Oriean. Welcome back to the program and it's been a minute since we've had you on, brother. I'm glad to be back, man. You're right, it's been a minute. Yeah, hell yeah, dude. Dude, this is freaking crazy. Skip, you were just saying before we got started, you were like, with all respect to D'Oriean. You saw the news, man. And I was the same way to, but what were you saying say that again? Well, I dropped a lot of F-bounds. So I'm not trying to keep it clean. No, I was surprised. I mean, I've known D'Oriean for a long time. Yeah, the idle day, the Colorado, I pass your place on the way up to Evergreen, almost daily. But it's, you know, it's Armbris Pro, everything. But I mean, I've always seen you compete. You come in in great shape. And then you're relegated to a lot of those middle spots. And I don't look. As long as I've been in this sport, I don't sit on the edge of my seat anymore for shows. It's very anti-climactic to me. So when I typically get the results afterwards, and I don't watch the show. And I saw, like D'Oriean, one of the masters of Olympia, what the, and then I saw your condition, I'm like, God damn, like what it was just so, I didn't, I didn't see the comparisons. I didn't see who took second. I heard there was a little bit of drama. There's always drama in this sport. So, you know, that's always fun too. But, you know, I'm older. I get sick of that kind of stuff. I just, I was blown away by the condition, the package, because it just, it really was so different than, and for you to pull off that win, and it known you for so long. I mean, we competed together in like 2010, I think, at the Colorado State or something. And to see you go from those days to day, it's been fun, and to see that win, it's just like, oh my God, what, what did you do? Yeah, you seem a lot of the man. In here, right, 2010, we competed together. Maybe he was the Rocky, could've been the Rocky. We were Rocky. Yeah. And, you, so you seem to come in for a long time, and I feel the same way, you know, I've been doing this forever. And finally, I get a big win under my belt, and I just don't gratifying, and it kind of gives me some validation after all this time. Oh, no question. The grinding, and everything, and just to see the package, I don't know, Scott, if you have pictures to put out, but I do, I'll roll the post production. I'll be fair enough, fair enough. But it was just such a start contract, which is not to take anything away from the condition at any other point. But you're that physique that is typically, and correct me if I'm wrong, but you kind of err on the side of that fullness, and that size in that, I'm gonna take up space, and you take up a lot of space. And to just see everything so much sharp, or so much, so much more deep, I'm like, God, it was a really good look. I wanna say it was a deserving win. I'm not gonna fall into the drama. Look, the judge is called it the way it called it anyway. So if anybody's not on your side, it's a subjective sport. That's how it was called. You're the winner. You can put everything else aside. There you go, I mean, what else needs to be said, right? People will hate about anything. Nothing's gonna change the result of this contest. No, I guess you're so. There's all of the night guys in history to do this, and I'm one of them. That's very cool. I hope they rolled out the red carpeted, armbarous for you, because you do. There's a little of your own parking spot. Where's Dylan? I'm gonna text him right now. You deserve a parking spot. They're so old. They did that happen yet to get you a spot next to Phil now. Do you get that? Change that sign. I'm gonna sneak in. I'm gonna fly back for him, and I'm gonna be out there with a flash light. I'm just gonna range the sign. Yeah. So I got, I have so many questions that I wanna ask you about, Dorian, but first starters, I mean, just competing alone is crazy. But competing in Japan, Master's Olympia happened in Japan. I imagine that was probably your first trip in Japan too, because most of us haven't had the chance to travel over there. What was it like traveling to Japan for a contest? And what was the, how did the culture respond to you? Because I mean, I would describe you as a Master. You've stood up there with literally the biggest guys. And I agree with Skip that you're conditioning at this show, like you freaking brought it. Finals was that's the Dorian. I'm like, I've always wanted to freaking see that size in that fullness. But that it was so cool. But yeah, Philosin Mantelis, what was it like to be just in Japan, not even competing? Well, it's a long plane flight. It's about 12 hours to get over there. Luckily they're in back. I got nonstop flights. Good. But you know, as soon as I got over there, I didn't expect it to be so freaking hot, man. It's hot, like mid-90s. The culture was very interesting. The first couple days of being in Japan, I was like a monk. I really didn't get out much. I went out to the grocery store. I got everything I needed to set myself up for success and went in this show. And I stayed in my room, relax, and did check-ins with my coach. It's really all I did until the contest, besides check-ins. But even, you know, there's small times I went out before the show. You could tell these Japanese people are not used to seeing a like me. They have a lot of respect for the muscle. And they understand the discipline and the work ethic that it takes. And I kind of like I said, I was kind of a monk before the show. But after the show, I mean, I bet you met a thousand people. They just wanted to be the guy you want to show. And just the people in the streets, they saw me with the trophy and everything. I got hundreds of pictures with people I've never met before. It was really cool, man. It's a long way you, Dorian. What's up, kid? How tall are you? You'll fight them? OK. Let's be fair. You kind of touch down it. But I don't touch on things. Japanese people are small anyway, right? So I mean, they're sure they're very lean. It's arguably one of the leaner cultures or countries. You not only, but I mean, you literally, like I'm sure that they thought, like, this is freaking Godzilla. Like where the sky comes from. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And I didn't know I had you right around the 5, 9, 5, 10. I wasn't sure. The point is there are a lot shorter than that. There are not a lot of tall people, a lot of big people there. So I'm sure that you stood out like a sore thumb anyway. And will I tan? I mean, come on. You don't want to hesitate either. So there's that. Well, I really respected about the Japanese people. There was no obese people over there. Anybody who's extremely overweight. All the food's super healthy. And what about activity? I mean, as a culture, I'm sorry, Scott. I don't want to grab a whole whole bunch of pants. But really, are they relatively active color? I was incredibly active. So how does it relate? I see a lot of people walking from place to place. And a lot of people using electric bikes and stuff like that. I'm just about colorado all of a sudden, all these electric bikes are popular. And people aren't using their muscle to get from point A to point B. Yeah. And at least in Tokyo. I mean, that's the only part of the Japan I really got to see. But yeah, people were just out on the streets. And one thing that was interesting, there was no garbage cans anywhere. So if you had garbage, you'd take it with you. You'd take it home. Put it in the garbage there. OK. OK. OK. So the show, how was the bodybuilding audience in Japan? You know, it's going to worry. There are going to be two respectful and quiet. But that wasn't in case. There's a lot of hype. People were really like, AMPed up, especially. I thought I brought a lot of energy to the stage, especially in finals. And the crowd responded very well to what I was doing. There's been times that which is a New York pro. And I'm trying to give it everything I got. And the crowd just crickets. Yeah. In Japan, that wasn't the case, man. People were loving it. People were loving the energy that I was putting out. They were responding to what I do. Which made it a lot more fun. That's cool. So I wanted to dig in a little bit and take you back to gosh, 20, the man who was February 2024. We lost Dave Calic, who, I mean, for people who watched advice as radio, he was on the channel a bunch of times. And then not as much when we had switched to think big. But he had been somebody who's been a very close friend of mine. I know, basically a brother of yours. And he was your coach. He unfortunately passed away in the beginning of 2024. You guys were tight. Every time I talk to Dave, I also got the update. Like what's Dory in doing? So I knew more, I knew as much about you. Like probably more about you than you know, I knew about you, knew what you're doing with your food and your training, supplementation, all that stuff. And he loved talking about that man. And he loved working with you. So how was it finding a new coach? Who's your new coach? And how did that relationship develop? Well, first of all, Dave was great. He was my coach for over eight years. And he became my best friend. So it was kind of devastating to take that loss. But before he passed, he told me if anything ever happens to him that he wants me to work with Ariel Cuts. And he told Ariel, if anything, every half of his hand, he needs to work with me. So I did the rest of that 2020, 4 season on my own. Now, did okay. I ended up pulling a win at the Daytona Pro. But getting ready for this, Master's O. You know, I just felt like there was a boy. Dave, we did over 30 shows together. And he was with me with all of them except two. And all doing the season of shows without Dave there, it was different man. It was hard on me. Bozily taxing. Yeah. So, you know, I wanted to fulfill Dave's last recommendation of coaching to work with this new coach, Ariel. And he's been great. The coaching sounds a little different. The way we communicate is a little different. And the way he gets me ready for a show is a little different. But it seems to be working just fine. I talked to Adam Young, but the over the weekend we were chatting. And he made a point to me. He said that in some ways, he felt that your new coach may even be better than Dave was because you and Dave were so close. That maybe Dave, you know what I'm saying? Skip, that sometimes you get into that relationship. Right. You get so close to someone. I wonder if there almost was a benefit because it's going to be like, you know, kind of by the books. Did you feel like, I mean, without having that close friendship, did you feel like, did you follow, let me ask you this way? Did you like just follow the plan, you know, A to Z exactly the way he had it written out? You know what I'm saying? Was it was it any different in how you approached things? Oh, yeah. Me and Dave, we knew each other so well. I felt a lot of times I could manipulate Dave. Kind of do what I wanted to do or what I thought was a good idea. Or talking about something that might not be his initial intention for how he should coach. With area, I made it a point not to manipulate him in any way or change his mindset. I just said, I'm just going to listen to whatever you tell me to do. Right. I have the plan and I'll do it. Wow. Was that difficult or because it sounds like, you know, you're saying I'm the one here. Oh, why I might have manipulated him a little bit. But I like the word collaborative because you had worked together for so long. Yeah. Yeah. It was a collaboration. So did you find it difficult to be like, okay, I'm just handing over the reins and I'm just going to be that perfect client. I'm going to put my head down and I'm going to execute. Actually, I found it easier. No kidding. Okay. Let's start in what I'm doing. Sometimes me and Dave, you know, we would collaborate and I put a lot of thought into it. Sometimes I'd write out the whole plan and be like, Dave, this is what I'm thinking. Take a look at it. Give me some feedback and we'll collaborate this effort and make something out of it. With with a area, it's just like, what do you want me to do? I'll do it. Yeah. Well, and hey, I told you the, I told you, you know, Dorian and Skip. I told you off the air. I got to tell the audience that it kind of blew my mind. I had, I had a dream about Dave a couple of weeks ago and it, this dream just stuck with me for some reason. And so it made me think about him for like two, three days in a row. I was just like thinking to Dave on and off and I got it in my head. I was going to text you and tell you about it. And then I was like, you know what, I'm not even going to tell him about it. But I feel like I should text Dorian. Now listen, I don't keep up with social media. So I don't know who's doing what shows or what's going on and Skip, I know I already told you this. But I text Dorian, I was just like, hey, man, I just wanted to say, hey, what's up. And I hope that everything's going really good and Dorian, you text me back and you're like, I'm getting ready to leave for the master's limpia right now. Now I'm going to witness for Dave and man, that freaking choked me up dude. That was, if there's something to that man that I just, I'm not one to believe in, you know, all the things I can't see. But there's something, there's an energy to that that I can't put my finger on that was pretty cool man. And then you did it. And then you freaking did it, dude. I got a story to follow up on that one. You know, I went and I did the show and I wasn't sure what happened in Prejudging. I didn't, wasn't sure if I first, I wasn't sure if I was in third. What I did know is I needed to come into that night show and kick some ass and take that fucking show. And that's exactly what I did. But right as Ben's bodybuilding was getting ready to go on, it's like, people are pumping up backstage and I'm kind of pumped up, I'm ready to go. I'm standing there and I'm thinking to myself, it's like all of sudden, I feel this energy. It's just like, I feel Dave's soul shining down on me. Yeah. Coming through me. And in that moment, it's like, nobody's going to give you this show. You need to step up and you need to perform. You need to go out there and make you happen right now. This is your opportunity. Go and do it. And it was like, something came over me. And I, like you Scott, I'm not too like into spiritual stuff. But something happened to me that moment that turned me on and lit me up. I blew. I was glowing through finals. And I went out there and I dominated. I performed. It was something to step up and I did it. I was really happy. It was your best look ever. It was your best look ever, man. It really was. It really was. Now, when I talked to Adam Young by the way, guys, two, 12 Adam Young, who had also worked with Dave, he had said that in the morning that your posing wasn't as on and that you weren't unbeatable, basically, at that point. And from there, though, you did complete. And I believe you were even behind points wise in the morning show. So what did you guys do differently? I mean, obviously, I think that that energy part, you know, and what you bring to the stage is a huge thing. But what did you guys do differently from the morning to the night? Because you brought back, obviously, an undeniable package. Well, Adam, notice maybe three different poses that I could tweak a little bit to make it look better. And as soon as pre-gejaging was over, he came up to me and he got in my face. He's like, here, we're going to work on posing right now. We're going to get this right. And whatever you told me to do, I applied to the posing and finals. OK. But I tell you, man, pre-gejaging kicked my ass. I was gasped at the very end of it. And I think that's probably why they knocked me down a little bit because I was starting to breathe through my belly a little bit. Yeah. And I was exhausted. I pumped up two hard backstage. And I put out too much energy trying to pose and beat these guys. And I got winded. Yeah. Exhausted, come out of pre-gejaging. I, four ounces of chicken had a little bit of creamer rice. As my second meal of the day after pre-gejaging. And nothing else, the rest of the day until the show is over. And after pre-gejaging, after I talked to Adam, I laid down for probably two, two and a half hours and didn't. Yeah. I was exhausted. And obviously, I didn't want to get up and get ready for finals. I just didn't have the energy to do it. But like I said, there was that moment backstage, where it's just like, this is Deor Dye. You've been doing this for 28 years. And everything you work for, you have not opportunity to make something out of it right now. So you either step up or somebody's going to take it from you. Yeah. So Adam just helped me with a couple poses. And one thing I noticed I did, and I told you, I pushed myself too hard in the pre-gejaging. And I told you, do that before, man, where you get, you get freaking amped up and you pose so hard. You know? So I tried to pace myself better and not just so pumped up before the night show. Yeah. You know, I never got winded in the night show at all. I went through all the rounds and I was hardly breathing heavy. And the feelings, Sandy and Steve Weinberger, they did the post show recap. And they basically said, that's why one. You know, Phil was breathing hard and let his belly go. I wasn't. Right on, right on. Yeah. I mean, it was an incredible turnaround. What do you guys say, Scott? Well, without giving away too much information, because that information is between you and your coach, obviously. But is there anything, can you throw the viewers any type of a bone where something that stands out to you that you did differently with this prep that you feel really helped to change that look to where you were just so much harder than that package was just better from a condition stamp. You didn't seem to give up. See, a lot of people need to give up a little bit of one to get the other. You have a little bit of fullness to get the dryness, give up a little bit of dryness to get the fullness. But it didn't look like you had to give up much if you did. Visually, there wasn't much of a change. So does anything stand out to you? Yeah, there's a few things that stand out. And about two, three weeks out from this show, I'm message area. And I'm like, man, I didn't in my head. Like, I feel guilty because I'm not very hard enough. I feel like in the past, I've really suffered hard. And I feel like there should be pushing myself harder. But I'm just getting my head. I just wanted to relate this information to you. So I've learned early over 20 years ago. You cut my carbs out. I get lean. But it doesn't seem so sustainable. So the way that day would generally give me ready for a show, he'd give me 10, 11 ounces of protein, low carbs, with every meal. That's a lot of protein to be breaking down in a simulating. And I think that had to do with why my belly and midsection was so wide. With this prep, we were doing like six ounces of protein per meal. But only three, like solid protein meals a day, with three protein meals a day, with a high quality way protein. Interesting. And my carbs were higher in this prep than any prep I've ever done. We were about 600 grams carbs every single day. OK. I just think for the fact that the food was less dense and I could process it quicker. Yep. I think that really contributed my waste being smaller. And it kind of gave me a different look. I've been doing the same thing that you're ready for shows for over 20 years. I always say it changed, makes a change. We changed it up, and it created a different outcome. I think we've been all agreed to in the master's divisions. Distension becomes a problem. Because we've been rubber banding that the stomach. And when I say the stomach, the organs, the intestines, the stomach for so many years, you can only do that so many times before that rubber band isn't going to go. Is it going to be as elastic as it once was? So it's funny that you bring up about the protein powder because I have found just relating to this as it being a relatable topic. Coming into the now shifting to the oxies and then switching away from all whole food meals, that my distension is less now than it was when I was ridiculously lean two months ago. And you're probably eating more at this point, too. What is processing faster? So you have that faster gastric emptying. You're not holding onto the liquid meals or, you know, they're moving through quicker. They're not sitting there as long. And I think for the master's demographic, I think that's not only a valid point, but I think it's a great point that we may have to do those few things. Some of those things a little bit different than we would have done when we were 25, 30, 35. So that's a great point. I appreciate that you threw the viewers a bone there because I understand that a lot of the information that is exchanged between the competitor and the trainer likes to be kept between the competitor and the trainer. There's no like a lot of talk too much talking. So that's cool. That's cool. Well, I think my purpose in life is to motivate educating inspire. So if I can pass the viewers a bone that helped them, sure. I mean. Oh yeah. So back home now, I mean, we already talked about you haven't got the sign yet at Armbruss, but Skips gonna get out of that. So we'll get that sorted out. You know, for anybody that doesn't know you, you're also a chiropractor. Do you used to, I know for a while, you weren't practicing any more, but do you do anything with chiropractic now, or where you at with that? No, I don't practice the way I used to do kind of a moderate volume clinic. And that was the majority of the things of what I did. But there's a couple scenarios that came about. They kind of led me to realize how much risk a patient can be. And there's stress associated with that. And there's responsibility associated with that. So the way that my career just kind of transpired, you know, I can do personal training and train three people at a time per hour. And make more money than I'm making with chiropractic with less rest. Like just as much money. And everybody that I'm working with with personal training, we're all there for a very progressive reason. So when I'm in prep and I'm like, dragging my ass through the day, you know, it's good to be around that positive energy. You know, dealing with a patient that hasn't been compliant to their point, they're in pain. Oh, I'm all stuck there. I feel me. It's hard for me to be a sympathetic and be a good doctor. And it's stressful on me. It's hard on me. So I just moved past the least resistance. Yeah, I mean, what about their band joe plan? You got gigs or you, is that still a passion? There you go. Ah, check out the collection right over there. And I'm ready with band joe because I mean, it was a guitar band joe. It's pretty much everything. I got a bass guitar. I got electric guitar. Okay. Band joe, like a long band joe, short band joe, electric band joe. I was just real quick. How did you get into that? Yeah. I think I always like to sound of the band joe. And I grew up in Southern Indiana. Right on the bat's, well, it's going to be my next question. If you were from a demographic where that was a bigger deal. Yeah. Also, they say that's the hardest instrument to learn how to play. So I kind of took it on as a challenge. Really? Okay. I've been playing five years now. Wow. Yeah. That one was that one's super. I don't think I've been in this industry a long time. I've not seen a jack dude, let alone a pro. How many body do you play the band joe? Yeah. I don't know anybody that is. I don't know anybody that's played the band joe. So what are you thinking now? I mean, I feel like is this the highest you can achieve. Are you are you going to just like step out and be like, all right, I'm done or you're going to keep competing from here. What are you thinking? Well, this qualifies me for the Mr. Lempi contest. Oh, oh, oh, oh. That I've been, well, I've been trying to qualify for this thing for nine years now and I've never done it. So I've got a chance to do it. I'm going to do it. And, you know, there's some controversy around who got first, who got second, the placements. I want to go and justify my win by coming into the limpia better than I've ever been in my life. Making a top 10 finish. I think that's a good goal for me. Realistic goal. If I can make top 10 of the limpia, I think I can justify this win and shut up everybody who's complaining about my placements. And, you know, I've been doing this 20 years. I just got the high line of my career in winning the master's of limpia. I'm on top. Scott himself says this is the best I've ever looked. Why stop now? Yeah, I get appreciate that, man. And hey, listen, you don't have to prove anything as far as I'm concerned. You know, and here's the deal too. It's interesting the way people, when I haven't heard people that are saying, you don't deserve it. I've heard a person saying that you did. And that was the guy who won it first. You know, and I guess listen, I'm going to, you don't have to say anything, Dorian. I'm going to say this. I don't personally know the guy. I feel like that's personally bad form. You know, I was talking about it with my wife this morning. She said that the guy is, been doing this for a long time. He's a great bodybuilder, right? He was good enough to make it to that level. Fantastic physique. But when you start talking like that, you really take away from the achievements you've made. Nobody really cares about the achievements. All they hear is like this negativity. And it kind of, I don't know, it just, it does though. It takes away from, it takes away from all the good that you've done. You know, and I think that that's unfortunate because that's what we're not seeing out of film. Now we're not seeing the good out of him. We're seeing him as a bad sport, you know, and it's unfortunate. I'd like to see him come around and apologize. Yeah. I don't know that he will. I don't know what kind of guy he is. But I would think a lot more about him. There's something with a name of film. Where if they just apologize, then things can, you know, things can be, I'm real good with a apology. But anyway, I would. I know I'd have a lot better feeling about it. It's just it's very, very unbecoming. I'm not fair at all. Let me get some highlights. I've been competing with Phil for probably seven years now. And just last year, I think, was the first time I placed ahead of him. OK. When this for a long time, he's got a long history wrestling and some type of martial arts, not bodybuilding. He's a champion and he's used to being a champion. And even during the post, I wanted to raise his hand and let everybody know that he's a champion. But that wasn't me saying he should beat me. He should beat me in the show. That's just me giving my respect. Because my goal was to beat him. And I knew he wouldn't take it well. Because I know he's 51 and he doesn't have to many chances left to get at this. I hope he can continue to do this and continue to be successful. But Phil's a champion and he's not used to take him a loss like this. I know he wanted this win bad. But you know what? I did too. So, he's out there complaining about the place. And he's not really personally disrespecting me. I think he's trying to just gear this more towards the judging and what happened with that big point swing. So I'm not particularly, and there's a lot of hate coming out of it and I'm just brushing it off. Yeah. No big, it doesn't involve me. I do with a win too. I think. Yeah, that's true. But it's the best attitude you can have, man. Versus him in there. You know, I definitely think so. Dorian, I am freaking excited about this, man. Like in skip, I don't know if I've told you the story. I've told the audience the story before. The first time that I met Dorian was one of my earlier trips to the Olympia. And I'd interviewed Dave a few times and I we weren't good friends yet. But I had gotten to know Dave and then he was going to be at pre-judging, right? So I went to pre-judging and I sat with him. Vijay was with me. And Dorian was there and Stan McWay was there. And I was blowing away because I'm like, this Dorian guy is like a practicing, competing, IFVV pro. It Stan McWay's a legend. Like I've seen him on magazine covers, you know? And then afterwards he was like, hey, we're going to go get some food. You want to go with us? I was like, yeah. So I go and sit down and eat with these guys. And Dorian, you were getting ready for a show at the time. And Dave had said, oh yeah, Dorian's been dieting real hard. He's really depleted. He was like, eat a burger in those fries and drink a regular Coke. And 20 minutes later, skip. I look over. And Dorian was just covered in veins. All bodies covered in veins. And he was like, two times as big. That was like holy crap. It's different than just going to an expo. And I'm saying, and seeing a bodybuilder, seeing somebody like actually fill out like that, which is six inches from your face. That was cool, man. It was a day I will never forget. It was awesome, Dorian. Do you remember that day? Oh yeah. Oh yeah. It was on the, it was the Arnold Classic. Yeah, yeah. What did I say? Olympia. Oh, I said the Olympia. OK, yeah, yeah. It was Arnold Classic. We went to the Bear Burger restaurant skip, which I think you would like right across the street from the expo and all of that. That was good. I think that was, I think that was, was that the year was that the first year that, oh, what's this name from England, Luke Sando? Was that his first year I think and he ended up taking eighth that year? I can't remember if that was the year or if that was the, I think that might have been the next year. Ellen and Big Country, I believe, for first and second, said it won. That's what it was. That's right. Dude, yeah, can you believe that, man? That was OK. Yeah, yeah, I remember that. What's that? Both of those guys are good. Yeah, yeah, it's incredible, man. Yeah, the older we get, the more disappointing you can be to watch people leave the industry in this earth, there's just R2 early. It's, yeah, it's tough to be able to. Before we go out, let me ask you to clear something up for the, I'm clear on it. I'm sure Scott is too, but to clear up for the viewers, these explain that there's nothing and a bottle like in the water at our Ember's Pro gym. Well, what is it about that gym? From your perspective, of being there so I trained there for years too, but what is your perspective on why that gym turns out so many high level? I'd say bodybuilders, figure, physique, just competitors in general. Why do you think that is? There's a couple things I have in mind, but what tots the list is the vibe of the place. It's like people that go to that gym, aren't just everyday gym goers, they're people that go there with intention. They're intention, they have a plan, and they're there to get better. That vibe is infectious. You got people like me who's been in there for like 15 years, and I've been grindin' nonstop. They're, you know, before me, they were still Heath. So it's like I got to watch him. The nature of the pros in there that are doing things right, the nature of the members in there that are doing things within tent and have purpose, and they're trying to get better. I think that's what separates that gym. I mean, the owners and the management is wonderful, the equipment is wonderful, the setup of like the open garage doors and all the light, all that's contributing to the vibe of the place. So I think more than anything, it's just the energy that that place puts off. I couldn't have said it any better myself. People that asked me, well, why wasn't the equipment? Was it like, yeah, the equipment was good. It's not bad, and it's better since I've left, if I'm being honest, I've been gone seven years, but it wasn't the equipment. It wasn't that it was just that that vibe because everyone there was, they were just hyper focused and they, they weren't just f and around, like you knew in Colorado or at least in Denver, you just didn't go there if you weren't serious. It was just like, I'm not going there. I asked people to go, and they're like, no, clients want to go there because they want to check it out, but they only want to finish their work and get the hell out because they feel really, most of them feel like they don't belong, but they want the experience. And everybody belongs as long as you're there to try. Exactly. It's a great, great, and very supportive environment. I think people tend to think, oh, you know, if I'm not in there and I'm not big, I'm going to be looked down upon, I think people just care that you're grinding. I think that's really all anybody has cared because if you're not, get the hell out of here. Here's an interesting fact. I know Martin Fitzwater and Brett Wilkins don't currently go to that gym, but that's where they really developed. Yeah? The first time that Arboris has ever had three guys in the open class in the Olympia. And three guys who train really hard. Yeah. Because nobody who has done well trained their ass off there. That's a cheap shot, but it's all. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. I can take those cheap shots. I can, I can't, and I own it. It has nothing to do with Dorian. It has nothing to do with Scott. I said it. I own it. All right. And two of you know, and you know what I'm talking about. All right. We will wrap it. We'll get this thing out of here. And Dorian, what's it got to me? Thank you. Congratulations to you. Thank you for taking the time to come and hang with us. I am freaking honored that we can do this show. You know what I'm saying, man? I love that we have this reason. This is freaking cool, man. Absolutely, man. Thanks for having me, guys. Yeah, it was nice to catch up, buddy. Thank you, guys, man. Guys, follow Dorian. I'll have all this contact stuff down below. And if people are in the area, can they like hire you just to do a workout? I mean, is it, yeah? Yeah. I'm going to keep it in narrow down as I'm prepared. Not pretty much always have a full boat. But I always put people on the waiting list. It's like, I've been lucky to have a good career and to be able to hold my clients for a long time. So there's really no turnover. But every now and then I get a client who moves away or something and that opens up a spot. So I'm always willing to help as many people as they can, whether it be posing or training or whatever. Don't be afraid to reach out to me. I'm available and I'm accessible. You can find me at Dorian Haywood. I have BB Pro on Instagram. Hell, yeah. Hell, yeah. And I'll have that link down below. And, you know, Dorian, you're a real person. That's what I've always appreciated about you no matter what you've done no matter how far you've gone. You're always just a real guy. And I appreciate that, especially in this industry where we have all sorts of people, man. But listen, for another episode here at Think Big Body Building Media, another episode of Blood Sweat and Gear with Skip Hill and Mr. Masters Olympia Dorian Haywood. I've got McGnaily guys. We'll see you soon. Thanks for tuning in. All right. That's a good show. When you're walking through a crowd, it helps to have this guy. Cut the path. I don't know. Oh, Mr. Hester. Oh, Mr. Hester.

So Martin shows up looking better than the Olympia possibly. Oh, was it just that he smoked every day? He was definitely better than the Olympia. As like a, you know, six foot plus guy my whole life, I just love Chrizo's arms, man. They're so sick. When his wife took over at the end, it all worked. Now that she's had full control for a full off season and three preps, it's never worked. He'll get walked him right in. And it, honestly, it's because of his own personal insecurities, but I don't get it, man. You just freaking go somebody and don't even text them. It'd be like, hey, you know, I want to do it my own way, or whatever, not that you even know what you're doing when you've never done it before. Hey, everybody. Welcome to It's Just Body Building. I'm Big Ron Partler with your host, Dusty Hansha, and the producer Scott McNally, remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring them. Yes, and remember, I am Mutant.com. Go to I am Mutant.com. Dusty and Big Ron are your codes. You can use whichever one you want, alternate between them. Get your merch, get your hardcore ISO, get your MindFK, and everyone should get on the gear. Okay, Dusty, we're all geared up. We're ready for another show. How's everybody doing this week? Awesome. I make static following another great week in the body building. I hate this time of year, because I know it's about to slip away. Right. The shows are about to end, and they've been so good. The competitors have been bananas, so it's, it kind of makes it harder to let it go when these, I mean, the post Olympia show was, this, that Prague show was out of control, minus the backdrop wheel. Yeah, aside from the worst backdrop of the year, maybe they were trying to do that just to kind of like draw, it does get a lot of conversation. You know, what, what do they call that rage bait? Engagement, rage bait. Was there, have there been people talking about this topic? Oh yeah. So they had red with black, with shades of yellow and orange, like it was like a fire sort of looking back. I don't know what it was supposed to be. Okay. It just made me think there was like, they were like on a backdrop of like, kind of fiery red, black sort of stuff. The only thing they could have done to make it any worse is have the actual color of Pro Tan, somehow blended into the backdrop, would have been the only way they could have made it more difficult to see from what I've seen Ron, according to some pictures I've seen of Scott, a brick wall is a great way. Orange brick wall. Orange and brown brick wall. Orange brick wall. Reddish brown Pro Tan bodies in front of them. Yeah. And then the lighting itself didn't even look good. Like I saw all the back doubles and I had to like zoom in to see if the glutes were strided. Because nothing was like shine, you know like poppots. You know like pots to see cuts. Yeah. And then obviously some of the guys they just didn't have stride glutes because it was like that. Oh, I peaked for the oh and now I'm sort of like 80% look. It was on a few of those guys. Why don't I swing up into this? We get into that. Yeah. So Martin shows up looking better than the Olympia possibly. Oh, definitely. Was it just that he smoked every night? No, he was definitely better than the Olympia. Better than you can say that on the backdrop we just described. Yeah. I'm thinking what did he really look like? And the obviously the big talk is Samson takes another big hit. Yeah. Big hit. What is going on? You're Samson, you win the Olympia and a year later in the following season you lose Arnold. You lose the Olympia and then you lose to Martin. He's a fourth, a fourth fifth guy technically at the oh, you know. What do you guys, what do you take? What do you do? Well, the first thing, and I hate to go back to what we've already covered, but we talked about this last week, which is that to me is further proof that Martin should have stood next to Samson at the Olympia. Good point. Yeah, that's a great point. I'm going to put him in that group. We said you knew the top three were for sure. Clear. So let's see four, five, six, seven. Yeah. And see who dances there. So I hope that they do that now because we were at the Olympia and I would have had Martin beat Samson there. And then a few weeks later, granted it was a better Martin and a better Samson in Martin one. Yeah. And going watching after pre-existing, I thought Martin would win. I had him winning, but I didn't know if they would do it, but I was like, yeah, he's winning. He is winning. I mean, he just, yeah. And then another thing I have to admit. And I mean, obviously we just talked about not everyone was at their best. But I mean, I looked at pictures and again, I think the stage was a horrible representation of everyone lighting and all that. But Keon was not anywhere near what he needs to be to do what we think he can do in the open. So what did you take of the result with Keon? I mean, he still looked crazy. He's up there, obviously looking unbelievable with the top guys. But I think he was off the mark to be a winner. But do you guys think he can win a show like this? Well, first off, because we're going to get roasted for this. I have to remind people that this is not a personal thing. We like all these guys, but we're talking about the best in the world and what it takes to win. I think that Keon can win at the open level. I just don't know after I posted a comment on the pre-Elimpia post pictures of Keon the videos. And I said that he's the best bodybuilder in the world right now. And I feel like seeing it in person, seeing him stand next to the guys, I have to retract that because things change when you're standing next to guys. He's still unbelievable, but I don't know that without getting out of the 2.12 class and growing. And having more size to that. Yeah, he needs to put on more muscle to hang with those guys because as much as he has the prettiest, most flawlessly put together physique, there's just less overall structure stance. You know what I mean? It's the Aseto thing. You're standing next to a 10 story building. You're a better overall 5 story building, but you're a 5 story building. You know, there's more attention drawn to the bigger thing. So he's going to have to move into the open to actually prove that. I still think he can, just like Derek. But he was definitely not as good, which surprised me. Yeah. I thought that he would be as good or better because I know he's disciplined. I know. And we all know there's a lot of things that goes into why you could be less at a next show. You know, when you're talking about like the younger, lower level guys, it's usually discipline. That's not the issue here. Travel, exhaustion, body just starts fighting. There's a lot of things that that could be. But I kind of forgot about how amazed I was of Keon because of how amazed I was of Martin. And then also that guy and I don't know how to say his name. But Joan, how do I say his last name? He was bonkers to me. Yeah, just he got this. Yes. Joan Prattalis. Is it, wow. Is it, is it, lay out, I don't know how to say that is that proper pronunciation. But yeah, somebody can phonetically spell that out for us in the end. And then we'll still get it wrong in the future. But if you could do that, that would be appreciated. He has put himself on a map as a guy to watch at the highest level now. Yeah, he's huge legs. He's huge legs. He and diced out of his mind. Yeah. And he also looks really young, which in bodybuilding to look really young, you probably are because we all know that the things that you do to be that could age you. I loved his overall look. Massive. Yeah. He was awesome. You know, there's little things in him that I hope that would get rectified. Like, you can see that he hits his glutes too much with the shots. He's got scar tissue there. That's got to go. Oh, man. If you look at the pics, Scott, I don't know if you can pull them up, but like, there's a rear lot spread and the first thing my eyes went to was that's a rookie mistake to throw that in post. I find it. Yeah, it's, I mean, again, picking apart someone who's phenomenal, but that's an easy fix. Yeah. You know, so I did find some stuff where people are saying that it was the best key on ever. Huh. Okay. And there was like a great picture accompanied, but I also saw pictures where it didn't look like his glutes were in, but then I saw video where his glutes did look pretty tight. So like, but like I said, the problem with bad lighting and bad backdrop and all that isn't that everyone looks bad. It's just that in some pictures, you don't look the way you're supposed to. It depends on the camera. One person can be videoing you with better equipment that does better with light balance and all that. You know how it works, Scott? Yeah. You get less consistency in what you're seeing when the backdrop isn't helpful. Like, yeah, it's it changes the exposure. You know, you're trying to meter off the backdrop. Well, look how shadowed his midsection is in that front W. Yeah. Like, you could watch this video and go, well, that's not as like he looks amazing. Yeah, he looks incredible. You'd be like, well, the oh, I think you look better than that, right? Like you could say that with certain images and then you pull up another picture and you're like, oh, wait a minute, he just is bigger and harder. Like, it's really screwed up. So so here I see the glutes look pretty good. Is that Keon's, you know, is that Keon at his best? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I'm surprised. I'm surprised because I felt like having so that was the only thing I saw was pre-judging at the Olympia in person. And everything else I saw was on video. I was, I mean, huge Keon fans. So I say that first. I didn't think that he nailed it, you know, and then from what I heard, they maybe filled him up a little bit too much earlier in the week. My guess is maybe they tried to like over-correct fluid wasn't right by the day of the show. I would have thought if things were a tiny bit off, a couple percent off for that, pre-judging that they would have freaking nailed it here, you know what I mean? Yeah. That's true. I mean, I will say he definitely had his abdominal control way better at this show. Did he, where did he wind up? Was it third or fourth? Where was he? Fourth? I think he was third. I can't even remember the place. Yeah, third and I think that guy, I could be wrong with it. That guy's no one got. Joan Prattis, yeah. Yeah. I think he got, here's the placings here. Yeah. No, he was fourth. I'm sorry. He was fourth because yeah, I forgot about Chris O'Hill. Chris O'Hill was third. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Watching Chris O'Hill pose pains me. Yeah. Chris O'Hill was a unique looking dude, man. I told you about my one buddy that always forwards me, the, the, the Chris O'Hill videos, meaning like this guy looks like he killed everyone on stage, but then you know on stage, he's like, huh, he's got this, you know what I mean? But he looked great at this show. I was surprised to beat Keon because we think a Keon is like just the balance and structure would be hard for anyone to beat, you know what I mean? Yeah. But like you said, Dusty, you gotta put, put that six foot guy next to that five foot, five guy and see what happens. Yeah, it's, I mean, he just has, he has a ton of muscle that's diced up his mind. Um, I think it's a little bit hard as a professional when guys don't adjust their posing year after year. Right. You know, like we've talked about that with Andrew Jack, where you're like, if he would just learn how to pose, which he was way better this year, yeah, same with Dino. But you know, when you watch his poses, they're, he's better than he shows as good as he is here. Yeah. I mean, yeah, yeah. I know what you mean. I remind like clients when I'm working with them, I'm like, the judges judge what you show them, not what you have. Yeah. And another thing I just, as it, as like a, you know, six foot plus guy my whole life, I just love Chris O'Hill's arms, man. They're so sick. He's got crazy arms, crazy arms on that big dude. Yeah. Yeah. It's just a, you know, you see a six foot one guy or six foot tall guy with giant arms, like easy 22s or whatever. It's always impressive. You know, you look at those arms from behind even. Boom. He reminds me that freaks and bodybuilding will never go away. They will always be here because there will always be a crystal. You know, there's always going to be one of those a few of those guys around that this is just the way that they can look their best is to have that crazy muscle on muscle on muscle look. He's doing, he's doing press downs in high school and the, yeah, everyone's like, yeah, yeah. Yeah. You know what? And when I see guys with arms like that, like his, yeah, I was saying, oh, you knew, you were riding your bike when you were 12 and people were like, when your arms, man, you know, I just, I don't know. I just feel like he must have always had something going on there. Look at those arms like they're crazy. They are. They are, man. He's insane. That absolutely elite arm from the front is just like, I just love that. It's sick. Psychological point of view, Samson, I can only imagine where he's at right now, you know, he, it's got to be rough, man. To, like you said, to have been on top to then come back in this season and say, really just get, you know, pretty beat up. It's like how you feel if you get traded from like the patriots to the browns. Yeah. Browns making football and there's a lot of people that don't follow and I totally understand that I'm like, Rosemary, you get one, you get one last ring with Brady and New England and then they send you to the browns and you just sit there for a season and you're like two and two and eight or whatever. You just like, it must be rough. Yeah, it's rough. And you know, you're good. Like you know, yeah. You know, you're good. Like he knows he is one of the very best and the thought had to be like, Hey, well, I didn't get what I wanted here, but let's go to this next show because it's not going to be as big. I'm just going to walk right through. You know what I mean? And yet there had to be some confidence going into this one of like, well, just based off of who I am, based off of my, my physique, you know, I'm going to, I'm going to walk through this and at least because it really would have, say he came back and he won this that would at least he could then go into the off season and feel like, okay, I still got it. You know what I mean versus now, you don't get that nod from the judges and it's kind of like, well, hell, you know, what's going on? Because, but you lost so much. You know, you was like, so it's so much you could only do between then and now 14 days. Yeah. It's not enough time to fill back out. You know, the thing that's missing to me is everyone thought that he needed to fill out. I think he was lean enough. He lost muscle. Yeah. You're not just, you know, just you weren't flat and needed to fill out. That could be done in four days. There's muscle that isn't there currently that was there before. So if, if I was him, if I was in his camp, I actually wouldn't take this as a negative. I would take this as, okay, we now know for sure because I was, I would, he probably said I was full. Everything was right. But this was as full as I could be with the muscle mass that I have. I just need time. I need to rest. I need to fill back up. Put that muscle back on, which will take two seconds for him. Right. And then next year he's in the mix. The thing that I would hope is that he's kind of got the J Cutler attitude after people started to write him off. And I hope that the, and he's one of the nicest humans on the planet. Yeah. I hope he finds a little anger for all the people writing him off. So I definitely, he is to me still at his best, the best bodybuilding in the world. So to me, just get back to your best. Don't worry about it. And then, you know, use this as fuel because obviously everyone's telling him what he should do. He needs to get a different coach. He needs to do this. It's like, you, I think he needs to get back to what got him to the dance in the first place. Yeah. Pretty simple. I'm a huge fan of Samson's physique, man. I still think that, you know, the year he won the O, I thought, you know, the year he won the O, I thought the front relaxed was the kicker because he looks like a Mr. Olympia is supposed to look in the front. Yeah. Oh, yeah. That front relax says everything about everything I love about a massive Olympia bodybuilding champion. You know what I mean? You can't make that either. You know, you can't like that's something you're, you have the genetics to be that, that waist, that shape in the arms shoulder ratio, all that, you know? Yeah. I see Samson do what he has to do to, you know, come back better than ever. And we've seen enough comeback stories and enough sports where people have that bad season, you know? Yeah. And, you know, they play with an injury all year. They don't talk about or something, you know, and they just have that season that's like low productivity. And then the next year they come back, you know, like it, it happens all the time. And, you know, I just hope Samson can, can get past it. I think what's probably the best, again, I have no idea what goes on in Samson. Samson's spear, right? But I think it's probably best to put minimal thought into what has just happened. Like, yeah, I mean, like you just got to go, uh, Brady lost some Super Bowls too. You know, I, I did say before I was like, well, look at, look at his coach's experience. I feel like everybody slammed me for, you know, questioning him being coached by his wife. Here's the deal. Like, so you're going up against a guy like a Ceto who's coached people multiple times, time and time again. I'm not saying that she can't do it, but when you don't have as much experience, it takes you longer to figure things out. So does he need to leave her and go to somebody else? I would say that at this point, maybe not, maybe stick with her, right? Because now they figured out a lot. It wasn't the things that they wanted to see this season, but they figured out a lot of the things that didn't work. So they know they can change that for next time. But that's what you have to deal with if you work with a less experienced coach, a Ceto or somebody who's been there in the trenches with multiple physiques through decades and does this day in, day out, he's going to be faster to get to the things that work. For somebody that doesn't have as much experience, it's not that she can't do it, but it might take her a little bit longer to get there, which when I've said it, the term I used is it's a lot of pressure to coach at this level for her. That's what I mean because you don't, it's not a very forgiving sport, man. You don't get many chances, you know? It's like you get three chances in like now he's being judged as to who he is as a human being, you know, and then by the audience. My question for that scenario, Scott, on the opposite of the spectrum is, with that level of experience, do you know where you went wrong? Because that's the missing link. If you know what was wrong, then it's salvageable. But I also think like when I was younger and first started coaching, it would become, and you guys can both attest to this, with experience you don't question your decisions. Yeah. I have a rule and someone's really good. I make a decision and I hit send and I close out their pictures. Yeah. Because if you sit there for too long, you start, ah, well, maybe you got to go with your gut. Maybe we could be a little fuller, maybe we could be this. And I think the added pressure, if I was in Hershuse, and this has nothing to do with her being a her, this has to do with just experience and what's on the line for their team. It's one of those scenarios where you're like, do you get in your head more? Because now you've had three chances. They all missed. And there is a difference between taking over the last little bit of an Olympia prep and winning. And there is taking the entire off season and then the huge and then coming in. Yeah. I mean, I could take over anybody that's two weeks out and peeled. Right. We'll be fine. You just walk them in at that point. Yeah. I mean, my first year coaching, I could have pulled that off, but I was nowhere near ready to take a full off season figure out where they need to be starting their prep, what their condition needs to be like. How rested are they? How long have they been off gear? How's their blood work looking? There's a lot of stuff that goes into nailing the peak of a show that takes place 30 weeks out. Yeah. Yeah. What do you guys think? I want to kind of move to the second part of this topic is a lot of the top guys changing coaches right before shows and in middle of prep and stuff. And is guys like Clarita who worked with the Stefan and, you know, absolutely smashed it and then midway through the prep this year. Switch coaches four weeks out, four weeks out. So what do you think goes on? I mean, obviously, I know nothing. I haven't talked to Clarita about this or anything. But what do you think kind of happens to a guy at that level? What has to happen to want to change coaches, you know, four, six, eight weeks before the Olympia? I personally can't even imagine. Do you think just things were just going off the rails? Because I know Clarita was like, was dieting super hard at that point, which you said, like maybe you're at your flattest and most depleted at that point and you think it wasn't that. I can't comment because I have information from Stefan. I can't. I can't. I can't be. It was off the record. So I can't tell him like, I'm going to talk about this in the podcast. But it was nothing like that. It's just something that he wanted that had nothing to do with the actual bodybuilding. And they recognized like, hey, this isn't going to this what you what you want out of coaching isn't what I'm, you know, going to what I need to do as a coach. So, you know, maybe a different situation would make sense. So it was amicable in that, but it didn't have anything to do with the coaching itself. I honestly, having seen the work that they had done, I would say that I would still give Stefano a huge amount of credit for that prep because like Dusty had just said in the previous conversation, like anybody can walk in and peek somebody that's already there. I am not saying that just anybody can't. I think that John did a fantastic job. Oh, yeah. I'll look forward to seeing what they do next. Absolutely. John, I will say John wasn't responsible for getting him into the conditioning he was in. If, if he needed to get into better shape, plain perfectly landed the plane. He landed the plane is what it was. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, which is, if John needed to get him better shape, it's like it four weeks out. It's too late, you know, yeah. The rate is not the type of person who's not in shape by four weeks out anyways. So it's good point. And shape before the night starts. You know, you're dealing with it incredibly responsible. Yeah, yeah, you're dealing with like one of the most responsible pros you could possibly deal with at that point as far as like what he's going to do on his end. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's tricky though, because I think what I always think about with the fancy, okay? And this is a little separate topic, but I get clients who there's so much information now. They will message me. They'll message me based off of a comment we may, I made on our show and they'll tweak it into making sense for them. Oh, God, yeah. You know, hey, you know, you mentioned you changed your bicep training because they were lagging and I was wondering maybe mine are lagging. I'm like, your whole body is lagging. Yeah. You're a year into this. Like we're not there yet. And the reason I bring that up is because a lot of these last minute tweaks have worked. And I get, it gets me nervous when clients start seeing that like, oh, maybe I need a real quick tweak at the end and someone else can bring me in flawlessly. I really, I still stand by the idea that if you get a coach where things are working, you stick with them. I've had people reach out to me and they'll say, hey, I'm already coached by someone else but I'm thinking about trying another route. And the first thing I ask them is why? Why are you thinking you need another route? And there have been multiple occasions where someone's reached out to me. I talked them into staying with their coach. I'm like, no, no, you guys have so much data that you've accumulated over the last three years. Right. It would be a mistake to hire me. And just tweak that. Like you're making forward progress. You're just trying to speed it up. You're trying to see if we can go quicker and that's, this is a long game, you know. I look at the same thing like when I see what happened with James at his show. Yeah, I'm like, listen, dude, you landed the plane. I will agree that you were the right coach for this and when James does his next show after a full off season and beats this show. Because if not, what I know is Chris Tuttle got you ready. Got your digestion right, got your midsection right, helpless of injuries. Yeah. And then someone else essentially got to take all the credit for it. And I'm not saying that the guy won't, but until I see it, it doesn't matter. Yeah. You know what I mean? It's very similar to what I just said about Samson. Like when his wife took over at the end, it all worked. Now that she's had full control for a full off season and three preps, it's never worked. Right. I got to bring something up. I wasn't going to mention this today. Yes. I lost a client this past week. And if you do wrong Scott, did I take him? And the blackfulness did you have? So he, he was the guy I sent you guys the pictures of. And I was like, this guy's told it was coming, this guy's getting flaky. Real good, right? Like he's, he's never competed before. He's on point to basically walk in and win and overall. Right, we got him in the right conditioning. I, we dieted hard. Right. We're pushing and he's got a very physical job. I pulled, I boosted the food up for about a week. And he, he starts saying, and I'm talking to the guy in the phone. Like we're doing video calls, right? And, and he's telling me, you know what, this shouldn't be here right now. He's pinching his side. He's like, this, I don't like this man. I was thinking I almost was going to drop all my carbs and just, just cut it, you know, and just not even get ahold of you. I was going to do it myself. Just cut all the carbs for the next two weeks. So what? He was like, yes, he like this here. This shouldn't be here, man. This is like, I do just got freaking shredded glutes, right? Like, and he's telling me this, this shouldn't be here. This is not his pinching skin. Yeah. Dude, here's the thing. I shouldn't know when the guy has like a lot of anxiety, a lot of personal issues related to himself, you know? And that's what it comes down to is like he didn't have the confidence in this case. But so he gets a hold of the diuretics we're going to use. I want to experiment at two weeks out with these diuretics. I don't want to just walk into a fricking show. So it's like, okay, what we're going to do is we're going to, now you guys are going to hear my secrets. It's like, we're going to try. I'm going to get a pen. I'm going to write this down. Yeah, we're going to try taking 6.25 hydrochloroethyazide before bed, like two hours before bed. I don't want you to change anything with your water. And he has a non-training day. I'm not like, I'm not thrilled with how you look today. Give me a one more day. Let's see what you look like after your training day today. And he was like, oh, I was really hoping to start experimenting with diuretics tonight. Reason is is because he was in his head. He's holding too much water at three weeks out, right? So after that, he never checked back in and fucking ghosted me. Fucking ghosted me, dude. I worked with him through the entire off season. And obviously it was my choice to invest in him. But like I was tweaking his training, everything, like helped him develop his back. You're like, took him, walked him right in. And honestly, it's because of his own personal insecurities. But I don't get it, man. He just freaking ghosts somebody and don't even text him. It'd be like, hey, I want to do it my own way or whatever. Not that you even know what you're doing when you've never done it before. But man, honestly, I'm going to be completely honest. I lost sleep over that for a night and a half, maybe two nights. I freaking like woke up in the middle of the night and I was like pissed because I'm like, I could have freaking done this. We had this nailed. He just can't see it because he's, I'm literally, I'm sorry, 15 years of coaching experience. I'm eons of head of anything he could have possibly known. Oh yeah. Yeah, I've had the exact same thing. Like a guy's glutes are striated. Never had that happen before. It was upsetting. And I think also too, some people have, they don't understand that you can't guarantee how good they'll look once they're ripped. Right. Like you get someone's glutes shredded and then they're like, oh my god, my legs are gone. And I'm like, you didn't really have big legs. Yeah. Like your legs are a weak point in the off season. And they've been a weak point ever since and you trained upper body for five years without training legs. You told me that. Yeah. And now you're playing ketchup. So your legs are going to be a little undersized because they're not big enough to begin with. And you held your legs strength the whole prep. Like you would tell me, oh my hacks, squats the same as when I started. I'm like, that's a great sign. He's like, all my leg weights are the same. I'm staying strong. Like that's the feedback through the whole thing. How's your strength? It's great. I'm actually stronger on the pendulum. Like this sort of thing is happening during the prep. And then, you know, a couple of weeks out, I'm going to have to do my own thing. My legs are just shrunk way too much. Like your legs didn't shrink at all, dude. Yeah. You just don't have to. The muscle mass didn't change. We just removed the fat. So yes, they are smaller. It's a real, and I will give some credit to anyone that struggles with this mentally because you're so invested in your work and so hard. I'm going to have told the story before about how a Ceto had me doing three high days in a row at one point. And I got nervous. Yeah. And in my opinion, he's the best coach in the world. And I still was like, I don't know if we should do this third high day because it was uncomfortable for me to not be suffering as much as usual. And that's what his this guy's issue was. Yeah. But you have to just, you have to just, when you hire someone, the best thing you can do, if you want to know if they're the right coach, is let them fly you all the way in, get the result, and then decide. But also be understanding, you know, like you guys were just saying, I got a guy that we're just trimming down right now. And he's like, I am a little nervous because I'm losing a lot of size. I'm like, where you were fat. And fat takes up space. So yes, your arms are smaller, but they're not less muscular. You know what, Angie, you use the term. You said a lot of people aren't nearly as good as they think they are. What do we say about every first show? You're not as big as you think you are. And you're not as lean as you think you are. Yeah. But if you come in peeled, you will get your best result, even if it means that your legs are smaller than you thought that were going to be. Oh, yeah. Now, and then you go in your office season and you make the changes to hopefully not have that disparity at your next show. But no, it's a real balancing act. I had a guy, a great client just a couple of weeks ago. He did a show. And after the show, he went and had his cheat meals and everything. And he woke up Sunday morning. Vascular hard. Everything was great. And between me, him and his wife, who also works with me, I realized that he was going to want a dirty bulk or dirty fill for the next show. Right. And I told them this doesn't, it doesn't work. It's not exactly the same because there's other factors. You've already depleted your water. The show is over. You're mentally relaxed. Now the stress is gone. And you just go have a meal and you wake up the next day. You're in love with it too. You know. It just happened the same way on the show. Yeah. But I told him, I said, OK. You know, I know you want to do this. He's had a bad experience with a coach before me that didn't bring him in right. And I said, all right, we're going to do it. We're going to do it. And I let him have the exact same meal the night before the show that he did the night after the show, the time before. And he woke up in the morning. And he sent me his picks at 5 a.m. and I said, fuck, OK. You're spilled. Oh. And now we got to bring it down. And he also doesn't use diuretics. He doesn't want to use any of those things. So we had to like, I was like, you got a sweat suit? Perfect. Go for what time do you tan next? We haven't tell them to sweat. We pulled it off. He did great. He landed where he would have landed if we did it my way or his way. The two guys at Beatham just had more muscle. We're more experienced. I like it when a client places in like a place that they couldn't have done better than. Right. Nothing would have, like if we had done it my way. And he came in. Yeah. And obviously, same spot. Same spot. That's helpful. It was fine. But what made it great was that he now understands there's a line between what he wanted to do and what we were already doing, the previous show, which is what I was going to do anyways. Yeah. Which is, yes, you could have been more full. But at the end of the day, what he really realized, which makes him such a great client, he's like, I just have to be bigger, Dona. I'm like, yes. Yeah. But now you are bigger. That little bit of fullness doesn't matter. And I think it helped that he got fortunate enough. I mean, the show was awesome. I don't go to a lot of shows. The show was great. He, I was ecstatic with how we brought him in by the time after the morning. I was like, oh, it's probably my most successful save of my career. I said the picture of the morning and it hurt a little bit to see him because I was like, I know what you look like on Thursday. Yeah. And here is Saturday and we're in trouble. But I think, again, the reason I bring that up is because this is why you work with a coach for an extended period of time. This was our first two preps. We had 10 total weeks because he came to me from someone else. And now we both know we're going to work on the same page and he's going to get a lot of results. And like you said, Scott, a lot of communication. Yeah. Making sure that a client that has had some experiences that didn't work well or in your case, the guy you had had no experiences, you do your best to at least let them know what you're doing, why you're doing what you're doing. Because if they can at least understand why you're making the decision, it makes them easier to follow. Yeah. And I'm somebody who over tends to over explain and over educate. So I honestly, I've had to realize that like there is nothing you can do to help somebody who's got that. No, that wouldn't have that much of a mental, you know, that wouldn't have helped him, but that helps the rest of your clients. Because on the other side of things, like I tell clients all the time, because I've had people like, hey, I can't want to ask, but I don't want you to think I'm questioning. I'm like, ask the question. Yeah. Yeah. I don't have an ego. And if I can't answer why I'm doing something, fire me immediately. Yeah. Yeah. Because there are a lot of coaches I've had guys tell me that they're like, I asked my coach and he just got pissed. And I'm like, then he doesn't know why he's doing it. I also never get pissed at people for asking. I never get pissed at people for asking questions. And there's more than one way to do things too. Yeah. So like, like some stuff you can, like, oh, you want to do that? Yeah, we can do that. Like some stuff I don't give a shit. There's three different ways to do something. You know, it's like, do you want to pick up groceries and then go get your hardware store parts or you do want to get the hardware store parts and pick up groceries? It doesn't matter. Some stuff doesn't matter. There may be like certain things you have to then, but if we do that, we might not want to get ice cream. You know what I mean? Right. It sticks to it. It does close at six. So we like, yeah, don't be afraid to ask questions. And, you know, I also, I'm also big on like, I want your life to function. Like, I don't care where we put certain things in your day. You know what I mean? So like, anyways, you know what I mean? The reason I brought all that up, Scott, though, is exactly what you said, which is what made the peak work was when he woke up off. I told him we've spilled. Yeah. And then when I told him what to do, there was no change in him. There was not a mental shift. I did it. That's huge. I did. I did. I did. And I'm like, we're going to pull this off, not because of me, but because of how you handled where we're at. Yeah. And he was ecstatic with his overall look. But I'm thinking the whole time, I'm like, this is because you handled the, you know, the shock of this morning, flawlessly, he was just like, what I need to do. It's such a good point. And he just rolled through. And that's why your guy was never going to work. It didn't matter what you said or what was going to happen. He was unsure. And that's the end. Like if he had been unsure with me, we would have been worse by prejudging, not better. I should have known in that everything flowed smoothly, you know, and then the end of offseason, as it was coming to a close, and now we're like at a point where it's like, OK, this is finished. Now we're focusing on cutting. And that point comes where it's like, OK, this is as much muscle as I will have. You start getting that in your head. Like, OK, it's not going to get any better than this. He started freaking out and there was like a 10 day period. He's like, I should have been a lot bigger than this. Like everything was smooth and totally lost his mind. I said that my entire career. Yeah, no, no, no, yeah, definitely. But then after we got into it, he was like, oh, yeah, no, this makes sense. You know, he's like, now I don't have to diet quite as hard, nearly as hard, and he keep the food up high all through the diet. Continue growing all the way into the show. And it's frustrating when you freaking care about what you do. I'll say that. I feel for, back to like the shows everybody knows about, I feel for Kyle Wilkes, because I know that he was really invested into Nick. You know, Nick, Nick, you know, fired him. And I don't know where he's going to go next for coaching. But, you know, I'm still a huge Nick Walker fan. I don't care if he didn't do great, you know, at the last couple of shows there. I'll say that I want to see him come back this next year and be his best. I am be curious to see what he does. But I know that Kyle, he did a podcast about it. He was definitely down about, you know, having lost that. Because it's frustrating when you lose somebody, especially at that level, you know. I also think the one thing, if you're a good coach, you've missed before. Yeah. I've missed twice where I made the mistake that made someone come in off. Yeah. And I knew it. And I had to tell them, this is where we went wrong. When I did this, it didn't go well. And what was funny is, they handled it a hell of a lot better than I did and it would haunt me for the long, because I'm like, this guy gave me his full trust. I did everything the way I thought I showed and I was just wrong. And that's a brutal one. I mean, and again, I started coaching in 2001. So I should be happy that I can only say that twice. But I mean, I can still see the photos in my mind. No, dude, I have a time. I have a time. I have a time. I went sideways and you're like, that's when I did this dumb decision, which didn't appear to be dumb, but it just was. So you're going to have those. So I feel bad for him. But at the same time, I will say, based on what I heard, he wasn't ready for that level. If I'm Nick Walker, I'm kicking down a Sido's door. I'm kicking down Hanne's door, even though he doesn't coach anymore, because my neighbor's house is for sale if I have enough money. Imagine Nick getting with Sido. I would never go. I'd be curious to see that work. And my point is just that he needs to hire someone that he can trust 100% and then forget about it, because it would be hard like after that show where a mistake was definitely made. You need to be able to, that's why it was so easy for me to peak with Chris as I didn't question anything ever when we would come in. And it always worked exactly how he did. And a lot of that came back to, again, back to your client. It was just because I was relaxed. I was like, Chris has got it. That's right. The first time I did North America, sorry, it was my second North Americans, but it was my first year with Chris. And I said, hey, it's a two day show. So like, like, how do you approach two day shows? And he just kind of goes, well, at this point, you're supposed to look good all the time. So it's really me. It's not that hard. And I was like, it's so true though. Okay. You know, he's like, well, you got to look good at pre-judging. And then you just got to make sure you look good the next day. Like that's as big as it was. And that's just minimizing the overthinking and the stress. And you know, like a lot of, oh my god, how do you do a two day show? Oh, there's going to be some crazy secret formula to having a two day show. And Chris is just like, you're supposed to look at all the time right now. You've been dining for 20 weeks. You should just be peeled. So when you're in shape, it really, this was cemented to me when you're really in shape in the first time is what you mean, really. Yeah. So I did a photo shoot like five weeks out from a show at one point. It was at 10 p.m. Which means all of my meals were in. All of my water was down. And I was, I saw the pictures and I looked like it was the day of the show. And I'm like, oh, this is what happens when you're in. All right, guys. So a bunch of you had asked for tank tops. So the day has finally come that we've got them. If you're interested in one of our tanks, check them out at the merch store. I'll have links below. Who knows? You might end up meeting somebody else that listens to the shows too. I've had that happen more than once. Somebody's like, hey, you listen to that podcast. I like those guys too. And before you know it, there's a budding bromance just waiting to happen. So if you want to look for a contract and support the podcast, you guys can do that all at the same time. Just check out the shirts. I like it. It's gone. I like that. You like that, buddy? You like that? I loved it. I love it. You used that. We have a handrails. Check this out. I wanted to throw this in once we were ready for it. We have a question that ties, like it just beautifully segues in to our listener questions. So I wanted to throw this one at you guys in season. Absolutely. Let's try. Check this out. So last week we talked about Sassan competing basically all through the season. And one of the points that we brought up was, hey, he's probably not a guy that's hammering the gear like full throttle if he can hold on to that for that long, right? That was the main point. One of our listeners, Joseph, he said, Ron mentioned guys who do many shows in a season aren't blasting through all of them. I'd be really interested in hearing how they are structuring things to stay healthy while being in show shape for so long. Well, one thing, you know, with investing advice, it's not timing the market. It's time in the market, right? And that's the same with like stress on your body from gear. It's like, we've all been there. You can run trend for six weeks. You'll probably be fine. But if you try to run trend starting six weeks out of show one and you just keep it in because show two is like eight weeks after the show one and then show three is six weeks after show two. And so you just stay on it the whole time. This is to me where you're doing stuff that is going to lead to more of a negative result than if you did things differently. So what I think a lot of these guys do because it's what I have done and it's what I did when I worked with top coaches was let's say the first, you do the first show and the second week shows eight weeks later, there's a whole bunch of stuff I wouldn't take for like three or four weeks. Yeah. You know, like a whole bunch of stuff be right back on the diet because you know, you're not going to get fat just because you didn't take trend. You're on a diet. You'll be fine. And I would like drop out stuff like that and get as many weeks under my belt as I could before I felt like I had to go in for my look or whatever. And I think that a lot of top guys do that stuff. Like they won't take anything at all for a couple weeks after the first show. They stay on the diet and it's still stuff floating around. They look fucking crazy. Yeah. I'm just going to go back on or maybe they're just running a few things and I just think it's trying to minimize the total stress is what I think is a big part of, you know, still having arrested, shredded, dry physique, you know, by show five, seven months later. That's just my experience with it. You know, that's what I think is going on. That's what I would do. I agree a million percent. I think the other factor is that when you're working with a coach year round, he is aware of the fact that like I said, Son's going to do a lot of shows. So before that prep even starts, how long were they doing nothing? Yeah. Like making sure that the health markers were flawless at the start of that first 20 week prep. The other factor that I learned from Chris that I've utilized ever since is sometimes those things don't come back. You take him out. The physique is cranking along. And I mean, I know this because I had, and I know you were on to have this and I know a bunch of other guys that were Chris. I would message him like, Hey, so you know that we're just on test and master on right now, right? And he goes, Oh, we are. I'm like, yeah, he goes, All right, well, stay with that because it's working because I'm thinking to my head like we're three weeks out now. The document. Yeah, I'm like, I'm like, I'm going to add this in two weeks. You have to. I'm on 1100 total milligrams between the test and the master on and we're taking nothing else. And he's like, yeah, but you look fine. Lies. And then you look at the picture and you're like, and then there's other times where he's like, Oh, that's a good point. Throw in some anivar for a few days. Let's see what happens. And then you put it in. Yeah, let's keep that going. That looks better. I remember I had a message Chris when Tom and I was like, you do realize I'm, I said, Hey, I'm 10 weeks out now and I'm just double checking that you do know I'm supposed to be a super heavyweight, right? And then he just replied, Oh, shit. In that case. And then he wrote like a crazy cycle. I just said insane cycle. And I was like, Okay, I get the point. I am mocking you right now. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think to knowing like Orals is a big one, pulling Orals out between, let's say you had three weeks on four or five shows. Yeah, yeah. But if you were going to use them, you know, but you and you may time that up, I feel like minimum amount of time for me to put windstrile into a plan and get the absolute most out of it is three weeks. If I can get that in three weeks out, boom, I'm going to get everything we need out of it. Halo seven to 10 days, something like that. So if I were to do that the last three weeks of this prep, the last three weeks of the next show, you know, I really find, I really find windstrile gives the best look at 24 weeks. You got to ride that. Just, just you never go on. Just getting a little bit harder. Yeah, yeah, yeah, excuse me. Time in the market round. Time in the market. Things like, you know, let's say you're using T3 clan. You might not even, those are options like that. Yeah, you might not even need that. Yeah, or lots of times, lots of times a guy might be running like 37.5 item L for the first show. And then it's 12.5 every second day for the second show. Okay. Yeah, and that sort of stuff, right? Like just, just a little bit of extra gas on that furnace because you're already peeled as shit and your diet and everything's going great. So I remember I asked, I asked Jay for 2003. I think it was that picture the night of champions because he didn't, oh three was like the year at J one like everything. And I think I was holding a picture like night of champions and I go, I go, how much side in the LG is for that show? And yeah, I think he looked at it and he's like, oh, 12.5 tops. I think like for a few weeks. And I was like, yeah, like crazy, you know, people just have, they don't realize, you know, these guys are in shape already. They don't need to just gas everything sometimes, you know? And yeah, by that point, what's that is for show for the win of the year by that point, right? Yeah. I think the other thing you can learn as a beginner and even intermediate bodybuilder is what you did in a previous show does not matter. Yeah. Because like I said, I just listed, you know, that there was one prep where for the second show I'm on, Master on Test, that's it. There've been other preps where I've got the kitchen sink in there working with the same coach. Sure. Because that's what was necessary to have the look at that show. So I don't want this to sound like a, oh, yeah, you don't need to take anything. It's just some shows are different than others. I am really sensitive with T3 and Chris would have to back it out of lock because I would flatten out. He's like, oh, pull the T3 and I want you to do a Paul Dillett cardio for the next four days on the treadmill. He's like, you know, just get excited about something and sit on the coach. He used to literally tell me he's like, walk the dogs, but let them, but let them stop whenever they want. Yeah. And it's, and it's just one of those things where, you know, you've got to know the individual. Like I never knew prior to that, the T3 could flatten you and he goes, oh, yeah, we just got to pull the T3 for a couple days. And like he wouldn't change much of anything else and also not come back to life and you're like, really? Yeah. I didn't even know that was a thing. So that's a great question, though. I'm glad that people are understanding that. You guys want to jump into some more? Yes. Yeah. I got some listener questions too if you don't have another one's got. All right. I got a few. Yeah. Well, you got what he's got. He's the head is with one. Well, let's hit another one. Okay. I'm kind of rapid fire him because I got some good ones. Okay. So great show. Really appreciate the channel. Question for the next show. Is it harder to put on size as a taller body builder? Currently six to two. 1544 year old male seems like a lot of the shorter individuals put on size and thickness so much faster. Thanks. I don't. So I think we were using words incorrectly. They're not putting on muscle faster than you. It just makes a faster visual difference. Right? Like you added 30 grams of muscle. They added 30 grams of muscle. That their bone in their humerus is shorter so that 30 grams is like going to be more crowded on that limb. Yeah. So yeah, we sort of think of it as like putting on faster but it's that it takes a taller guy a lot more grams of tissue to accumulate the same amount of, you know, crowdedness on the back or the quad or the femur or the, you know what I mean? So that's all it is. It's just there's more yard. There's a lot more grass to cut, you know, like it's just a bigger deal. So they don't put muscle on faster unnecessarily. It's just it makes more of a visual difference. That's all well. Well, think about this way and let's use the instead of instead of muscle, let's just use fat. So if post show I put on 20 pounds by the following weekend, but I was 270 pounds at 5, 10, you're going to see it. But if my client that's 4, 11 and weighs 100 pounds puts on 20 pounds in a week, how much are you going to see it? Yeah. Disgusting. Yeah, that's like 20. What you put on 20% body mass in a week, that's a problem. So I think that that's the biggest thing. What I tell clients that are taller is it's going to take you longer to look like a body builder, but once you do, you're a better body builder. Like I don't want to stand next to a guy that's 6'4", that looks as full as I do, because he's way bigger than me. Yeah. Yeah. Where you get a crissot. Yeah. Like he's just, there's too much mass because he's filled up just as much, only his filled up version is 330 and mine's 270. It's like, yeah, he's a lot bigger. He's a lot better. So I would just understand that bodybuilding is about just keep going. It's not about how long it takes. Yeah. We have one. I had one. Go ahead. Go ahead. I did a question box a little while ago on my story and I got a, I get questions from other gym owners, right? Like they come in other gym owners, hit me up with questions. Sometimes it's equipment related. Sometimes it's like, hey, what would you do in this situation? You know, like I've got this member that, oh, I love this. Cause, you know, like that sort of thing, right? Yeah. So I had a gym owner contact me and it's funny because I've noticed this too. I never really put much thought into it, but I've noticed this too. He said he has a lot of well-known people at his gym. I'm not going to spit out who he is, but he has a lot of well-known people as gym. He's got pros. He's got, you know, influencer types and all that stuff. He said some like high level Olympians come through his gym. He said that he noticed that a lot of the older guys and especially the guys will tag his gym in all the videos, but he finds that the younger influencer types do not tag his gym. Interesting. And he said he's given many of them discounts, free clothing, toss them hats, stuff like that. And then he notices that they do not tag his gym in anything and they shoot content. They're a lot. Now I have a gym with people shoot content out a lot too. So I know how he feels, but he said it's frustrating when an Olympia guy comes in for a workout and tags up his gym and says, thank you. And then these influencers who make their living off of all the videos they filmed in his gym do not tag his gym or promote his gym ever. He said he noticed it and it bothers him and he's wondering if it should bother him. And I'm like, oh, this is a great question because I've seen that and I've noticed that too. Like there's people at my gym that never tag our gym. And I'm like, oh, interesting. They never tag the gym and then I look and they have a lot of followers and I'm like, oh, they probably expect to be paid, right? So I'm just wondering what you think of this culture. They're doing you a favor run by showing up at your gym period, right? If they happen to decide to tag you, then you should definitely reach into your pocket. I'm just wondering, yeah. So like I thought it was an interesting question because I've never really let it bother me before, but he said it's at the point because he has a pretty, pretty busy gym with these people where he is. And he just said he noticed it. It's very common. So I'm just wondering, yeah, Dusty is very quiet on this. I'm wondering if he's both angry. I have my girlfriend is Dusty angry. So why are Dusty cats? It's worse. It's worse. It's really bad. It's really getting bad now, as well as it's sort of talking. No, I think what, when I look at the situation, it bothers me because as someone who's, I mean, my entire career was thanks to people, places, letting me film content. Yeah. Everywhere I went, you know, you got restaurants that have let me do content in all these types of things. And first off, outside of Lance and one other gym, I have always paid. Right. I want to pay. You've created a place for me to do this. You allow me to do it. I want to pay. Yeah. I've had two gyms that just refused. They said, no, you're bringing us too many people. You were not taking your money. And then I said, okay, then I'm doubling down on how much I promote and actively try to get you guys clients. I think that we're a little spoiled now. You didn't use to have all these gyms and all these places that, because as filming has become normal, now that your soccer moms are walking through the grocery stores, taking selfies, it's become more normal. And you don't realize that your lucky places let you do that. They don't have to. I'm running my business out of their business for free. That'd be like me training in your gym, training clients, Ron, that are your members, that I'm taking from you and building my business in there and not cutting you in on the deal. Yeah. Like, everyone knows that's not okay. This is the same thing. So when you create a gym where I can do this, where you allow me to do this in my head, even though I'm paying, I out. Yeah. And I don't know how that gets missed. And the other thing is, is the gym appreciates it. And you do get advantages. I've had people come in for a couple of days to a gym. I'll text Lance and be like, hey, Flex is in town. Can you set him up with a 24 hour pass? I'll pay for it. And he's like, no one's paying. And of course, I'll set it up. Those are the advantages you get by developing the relationship. I don't know why you wouldn't do that. It would bother me a lot as a gym owner if that went on because you are also an inconvenience to a lot of other members and you don't know it. There are members in that gym that hate that these phones are out. Yeah. People have to realize there are members that loathe them and don't want to be anywhere near their video. It's part of, so actually in the muscle factory contract, it's in your contract that people are allowed to film in this gym if you don't like it tough shit. And they pointed out when you sign up because they want you to know, hey, if you're something that's going to be bothered that you're in the background, you probably shouldn't train here because we allow it. But that's another example to me of why you owe that gym because they're embracing it. I think if I was that gym owner, I would point it out. I would just say, hey, you don't have to, but I want to let you know that it bothers me. And I'm curious why you don't. You know? And then the person doesn't have to, but I don't see any reason why you wouldn't ask because it's like, you know, I'd love to work with you. I'd love to get you some sweat. Whatever you want to do to make it feel like bullrats are happy. That's how you build relationships, doesn't it? Yeah. That's how I think like I've done everything is I want to try to give and you give freely where you can and in return, then if there's a value to that, then that comes back to you don't have a saying. I can prove that with Scott Ron. That tells me one day he's like, hey, I got to order more MindFK. I'm like, what do you mean order it? He's like, well, it's not on the website right now, the flavor. I'm like, wait a minute, you're paying. Yeah. And he's like, yeah, I'm like, knock it off. What is it? So I get with Luke and I say, Scott's been paying for MindFK. He's like, what the hell? What the hell? Hey, for the supplements. So I get a picture from Scott like three days later and they sent him like 12 bottles of different products. I got like, oh, hook up, man. Oh, yeah. You should be getting it. Yeah, yeah. Luke and Joseph, I got this bottle by the way at the Olympia. I love those jugs. So I realized I didn't realize this is a one gallon jug. I have increased my water intake because I normally had like a liter and a half jug. So I'd fill it up less frequently. And you know what I'm saying? You run out. You don't wait filled up. What you're saying is that buying the mutant jug online with code Dusty or Big Ron will actually save your kidneys. It may. It's all I've heard. It may. Yeah. Yeah. We'll improve your blood. Yeah. Bring your GFR up. So speaking of which, I want to tell you guys, I have not tried big greens yet. And I was almost going to bring it up to you guys. I would like to do a taste test on the show with you. Yes. Maybe not for a soda or something. I thought that would be fun. Why don't we do it next episode? We'll do it. Big greens taste. Because that's a chocolate one. Yeah, I haven't tried it yet. It's chocolate. You guys have talked about it. And I don't do a lot of vegetables so I could really benefit from it. I'm so glad you said that. I do. I just told the client this the other day. He's having some digestive issues. And so my first thought was what greens are you eating? What greens are you eating? Yeah. Because I probably got to change him and he goes, oh, I don't do greens. I'm like, I said, you eat any veggies at all. None. He doesn't like them. And I said, I never did either. But you got to do that. I was like, do you like chocolate milk? Like you who? He's like, yeah, why? I'm like, those are the greens I want for you. So I told him to buy them. I was like, all you do is do one scoop before bed. Yeah, that's it. We're going to solve this whole problem. I get a text that night. This stuff tastes just like you who. I'm like, yeah. And then about a week later, he's like, I guess that's why you have greens written in my diet, huh? Digestions all. Perfect. No. Under control. So I'm a, maybe it's because I'm Canadian or maybe it's just because I am not the type person that even looks at what's in the cooler at the gas station. But Clarita said to me when it first came out, he goes, oh, it tastes just like chocolate you who. And I was like, I have no idea what you who is. I never had one in my life either, honestly. I see. I was abused as children. So what is you who is it? So I thought you who was like a yogurt drink, like chocolate no, no, no, because it's you, like I thought of that, maybe a yogurt drink. So it's just a chocolate milk. I see how you could come to that conclusion by the name, I guess. Yeah, like you who I sort of thought, oh, it's a play on yogurt, but it's just a chocolate drink, right? Dusty? Yeah. Like chocolate milk or is it chocolate drink? What's chocolate with chocolate? Chocolate drink. Okay. Okay. All right. Okay. You guys were both abused as children. Like my mom gave me all the things that were horrible for you. Yeah. And that was one of them. K, E and you who. Yeah. Like I think and I don't know the ingredients, but my assumption is that chocolate milk is like a healthy thing. And then you who is like, we've also right. It's like orange juice. You have orange juice and then you have five alive. Yes. And they're not the same, right? Yeah. Okay. But everyone likes five alive. Yeah. That's one. Okay. I got you. We're all set up. Okay. That's funny. Yes. That was a good question by the way, Ron. What was your take, man? How do you even give me your take? I'm rambling. I know what's going on. What are you taking on you who I never had? No, no, no, on the gym thing. You know, because you guys get that, I'm sure, man. You get all sorts of people in there, right? Yeah. I just sort of chalked it up to, well, I'm 50 now so I can say more stuff. That's the best thing about getting older. There's a line. There's all these lines I'm realizing. Once you're 50, there's a whole bunch of stuff you can say. Yeah. And people are like, yeah, fair enough. You're 50. You could think that. You're, you're, you're hanging around. You're not at the point yet where you can call the weight your sweet hurt, though. No, that's like the 60, 70, maybe. Yeah. It's common. I got them loaded. I got sweet hearts and honey. And maybe a couple honey buns. I got those loaded. Oh, that's 65. It might even throw a tuts in there. Thanks, Tiltz. Right? Really go old school. Hey. So anyways, I just chalked it up to like my cynical take that young people don't have real relationships. All of their relationships are transactional. Especially females. And I, I just feel like that's the social media age, especially females that are like successful on social media. And I'm not begging on females. I'm just saying this is kind of maybe something that comes with the territory that they kind of wind up trapped in. I'm not saying they're sitting around and strategically thinking of it. But I think that when you're one of those sort of influencer people, you're all of your relationships become transactional because every single thing is a business thing, right? Like, I'll go out with my buddies and like post a picture from dinner. Or if I go to a concert, I'm like post a picture with my buddy. But like, I just feel like some of their social media are 100% transactional. There's no like no real relationships in their lives sometimes. It's like a sort of feel like there's this sort of sad thing with some of the young people. I don't know. Is that too cynical? I think that actually makes sense because you're, everything is what do I get? What do I get? Yeah, and I think that if you take it to the old person way where I look, I'm like, I already got what I got, which is I'm allowed to do this in here. And it doesn't cost me anything to do that. Right. You know what I mean? I think there's just certain things that change. And if you want to be in the game a long time, you have to remove the transactional part. Like when we go out of town from mutant, I don't build them for every little thing. No. I can. Like if I sent every dollar I spent, they would send it back to me. I'm like, I'm not doing that. They don't nickel and dime me. And I want to spend money at home anyways, right? There's that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So you just, I think it's all really just like anything in life, it's perspective. And I guess the other side of it is is I feel fortunate to train at your gym. So I'm bragging that I train at your gym. Right. Lucky the Carolina iron is here. I'm lucky when I go to West Coast Iron. You know, I feel like I want to tell people this is where I'm at. So when you're in this area, you want to come here. It's awesome. Right. Yeah. I've noticed it on other people's social too. Like I'll see that all of their pictures are from their home gym. But I don't see their home. I don't even know where they trained. And some people might not think about it. If they're an influencer, that's their thing that I imagine they probably do. Yeah. Just kind of interesting, you know. And oh, another thing he said that he did, he said he said to one person that came in once. He didn't tell me who it was. He said it was a men's physique guy. Yeah. He said that early on this one men's physique guy came in and he's like, oh, he's like, don't worry about it. He goes, you know, maybe just like tag us up in a picture or something. And the guy was and the guy said, oh, I can't do that. I've got sponsors. Can't take you to a chance sponsor. And he said, what do you mean he goes, well, I have sponsors and they pay me. So if I tagged you and they found out that you don't pay me, then there's now, then my value goes down and then they're going to say, well, why do we pay you? And he was like, what? Never mind. It's $20 for the first. Never mind. It's $20. Yeah. Never mind. $30 bucks a day. I almost feel like it's going to backfire on you if you do approach the person. Like it's not going to go well. If you're like, hey, why don't you pay me? Yeah. I don't think that's going to go well for you. You're really going to have somebody who gets it. And those are the people that are going to then not only provide you value, but then they're going to, it's going to be a, I think it's a two way street. They're going to benefit. You're going to benefit or you're going to have people that don't and those people just suck. And reality is they're probably not going to be around that long anyway. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And the question was, it wasn't boring. You guys rambled. No, I think it's great because, but I do have to say that there are, there are examples of guys, of course, at all ages that, that get it. There are a couple of guys that train at muscle factory that are really well known. 300,000 followers. Right. Right. Right. And right when they come in and start training their lants like, hey, let me comp your membership. And he's had a few that are like, no, I don't need you to come in. That's cool. It's all for that too. I'm all for that. It's such a cool stance when you see somebody and there would be nothing wrong with accepting. Don't get me wrong. Yeah. They bring value. But when you have some of those guys that are like, no, I want to pay that that's a guy who now the de-Gimoaner goes, we're going to make sure to extend some extra stuff for this person. Yeah. I guess not the $60 a month. It's the fact that they're like, no, I, I pay. I guess if there was one thing, like I, I remember all through my years training in Edmonton. I trained at mostly hardcore gym, but I also had a World Health membership. So I would try to train some of the World Health. And I just vividly remember other guys saying stuff to me like, man, the manager gives me shit there all the time when I make noise or, you know, we go heavy in the rack. Like how do you train there? And I'm like, no one's ever said a word to me. Yeah. Not one word. I'm going to like press every single Tuesday and we're using the big dumbbells and dropping them on the floor because you get them down kind of drop them like responsibly dropping them, you know, that's kind of a perk is kind of when you're getting it because of how you treated people. Yeah. And like, are you nice to the staff? Do you say hi to the manager? Do you joke around with the manager? Do you say, hey, Tony, what's up? Like, do you walk by the office and go, you're going to hop in the rack with me today? We're squatting. Like I would do that, right? And when you do that to people and you build relationships with the management and the front desk, say, hi, how is it going today? Like some people just don't get or how easy it can be to move through the world. It can be really, really easy to move through the world. Another example or at your range when you've developed the friendships with the people who work there and they say, hey, man, if you wanted to come in before we open so that you can have free range of it, you'll just just let us know. You know, it's like, I don't think everybody gets that invite, but if you're nice to people and you treat them well, it's like you get that's what you get. And that's what I got. I have a funny story for you. I have a funny story for you. Thanks for the invite, but I'm not getting out of bed yet. You will like, so I was training at Golds here. My now Sunday training partner, John was the training manager over there. And I was training one day in the gym and a guy came in, it's a pro. And he came in the front to ask and he said, hey, this is my name, whatever, whatever. I want to day pass. And John's like, all right, cool, it's 20 bucks or whatever it was. And he goes, oh, no, I'm a pro. And John goes, okay, it's $20. And he's like, why? I don't pay day passes. I don't. People give them to me. Oh. And he goes, well, if you want to train in the gym, there's a $20 fee to train in the gym. Yeah. And the guy was just a douche right from the beginning. So he starts to realize it's not budging. He's like, I think we got off on the wrong foot or whatever. And so he kind of such backpedaling. And he's trying to be fun. And he goes, what's with that guy out there parked? That's not even really in a spot. Because there was a spot that was like next to a spot that I was used to back into. Yeah. Because no one would park next to me. And he goes, oh, that's dusty. Everybody likes him. He can do whatever the fuck he wants. And I just love that it was like another insult to the guy. And he just had to like pay his $20 and walk there. And I'm like, I would never, ever assume I was getting something. I just walk and assume no one knows who I am. And I just want to train. So I'm just hoping they offer day passes. So I like to pay for a day pass too. I don't know for a two. Yeah. There's a lot of money in day passes. But anyways, great question. What else you got Scott? I got one more that I had to make sure we got on the show today. And this is by a gentleman called the real Lee Priest. OK. Never heard of him. So we talked about politics last week. Because people asked us, they're like, hey, is there politics in bodybuilding? You know, what do you guys think? And our general consensus was they throw the high score up. They throw the lower score out. It's, you know, there's no more politics. It's not. It's not like what you think, right? And Lee said there is politics. They can scratch the score. But they were told what is happening. They asked me there was politics. On my documentary, they ask all the guys on the Lee kept, if Lee kept his mouth shut, would he have placed better? They said yes. So I guess that's confirming there's politics. Well Lee is a fantastic example of being an exception in many, many, many categories. Like, there's a lot of things that are rules in life except they don't apply to Lee Priest. It sees a different animal. There's different. He's got an exceptional story for a lot of things. Yeah. That's funny. Well, I, I, I know Lee didn't make it easy for anyone to ignore him. Did he? Yeah. I would say he's easy period. Easy period. Yeah. No. We got to get Lee on, man. We do. I can't believe he watches the show and pays attention to the show and comes on and comments on live shows and we haven't had them on yet. I know. Yeah. Let's, let's, let's make that happen. I don't know. He's don't want Lee to hate me. Yeah. Is that what you're afraid of? Like you get him on the show and it'll be 10 minutes in. That'd be the best. It's kind of middle. It'd be the best thing for my career if Lee hated me because I know I exist. Oh, that's a good point. You start a rivalry, you know? It's not much of a rivalry against him. They're like some guy. I just hope that if we do, we got to have him on. I'm really hoping he drops a lot of sea bombs because if that Australian accent is just like a sea bomb. And he has to land every time. Yeah. Yeah, Merkis, we just can't do it the same. It doesn't sound right. No, no. I say it, it just sounds mean. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Just a word. Just a word. It's a beautiful word. Yeah. Good word. I think we knocked it out as well as we could. Yeah. That was good. I'm glad we talked about the whole, okay, congratulations to Martin by the way. Yeah. Yeah. That rounds that up. That was a pretty nuts look. And we'll see what happens this year. Shit. You know, I never get Martin the respect he deserved when he was coming up. I always knew he was good, but I couldn't see how good he could be. Like in my mind, he was a great win a bunch of second tier pro shows. I just did not know that when it would all come together, it would look that way. And that's not saying much, but usually the guys who get to his level, you kind of knew the whole time. Hmm. I just knew what you're saying. Well, yes. That's good. That's a good thing. You know, I'm not going to be surprised by anything because I feel like now I'm like, okay, there's no, there's no top for him. Yeah. He'll just keep going. It wouldn't stun me if he won an Olympian now just because I'm like, well, he's proven to me that I have no idea how good he is or how good he could be. You guys realize I've had Martin on the show since he like way back in the day with his very first coach ever when he was like, I think he just moved from North Dakota. It's like he literally was fresh and young in the sport of bodybuilding. Like it was way back now. He's seasoned and young. He's right. Young is hell. Yeah, he's basically a kid in the sport, right? Remember when I had the Dallas pro the last time I saw the Dallas pro, he got second to Andrew Jack. Yeah. He beat Coo-Clo and he beat Camel. And I still thought, because he was standing next to Andrew, I still thought, wow, he's really good. But I mean, he's a real small guy compared to like the big guys like Coo-Clo in X to him. And I was like, you know, he did really good. But I don't know if he's big enough to like move up much. Yeah. So you were just like me. We're both young. And then but I mean, now look at the top five at the O like, yeah, hotty Derek. They're not big guys, right? Yeah. You know, there's Samson and Jack in there, which are like obviously like the other end of the spectrum. And then Martin and Fifth, like, okay, the tall guys are the big guys are like the odd guys out now. Yeah. So, yeah, crazy man. What he's done with F is Eek. Absolutely. And I know that he's done it by carefully making sure he doesn't accidentally over train. Raps and a lot of reps and reserve. Yeah. A lot of reps. You manage your fatigue on your days off people. Puking in the garbage can. That's all I was saying. Even at that. That's all I'm going to say. Puking in the garbage can beat Samson. Nothing to get Samson. But I'm just saying all these guys, all this don't train too hard, super careful nonsense. Have you puked in the garbage can on leg day yet? Because I know what that's like. A lot. If not, then you got to do a couple more sets. Yeah. You got to find it at least. Like, don't be afraid of it. Seek it out. It's like certain things in life. You got to do at least once, you know? I always say when I did something stupid, I had to cross the line to know where it was. Exactly. Which is kind of true. You got to, the only way you can know your limits is by kind of stepping over it, right? Whoops. That was too far. Okay. Done that a lot in my life. Okay. Thanks guys. Remember like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell. Yes. Remember, tag your gym. Yes. Okay. And like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Ring the bell again. There you go. Oh, Ron. I've got tanks in the merch store, by the way. Tank tops in the merch store. Yep. And two quick mentions to the last five minute crew. I didn't want to hit all the other people with this. I can do that later. What's that? Two little things announcing. One's a big one. One's a big one. Oh, yeah. We're... looks like we're doing another West Coast Iron in Edmonton, Alberta. So if you've seen the social media for that, constant right now, we're talking all the contractors looking at flooring and mirrors and all that stuff. Wow. And we're talking to Atlantis and Hammer and all these guys and all the reps and where there's a lot going on. So there, it looks like we're doing a West Coast Iron in Edmonton, Alberta. So keep your ears peeled for that if you're from that area. And secondly, I haven't mentioned a word about it, but it's been like six months of building it, but I'm actually releasing an app. Oh, yeah. I'm actually doing a training app. Nice. And it's going to be called Train Like Hell. Oh. And it's the big, round part low app. And it's going to be my coaching app. It's going to be my low ticket coaching item because you know, the one on one stuff, but I'm going to have a community app over there. I'm going to help. I help a lot of people that maybe don't need a full time coach, you know, but they definitely want some help. They want workout structure. They want help with diet. They want me to be able to chime in on the app and talk to everyone about stuff. And I'm really excited about it. I went through it. I wanted to make sure it was simple with no stuff I don't need. And none of the stuff that annoys me because I feel like apps have way too much stuff on there that I would just erase. Yeah. And so I want to strip down basic quality. Like the way I like my burgers, you know, and yeah, so I want to be able to help people with a lower ticket coaching item. And I know there's a market out there. And so yeah, I'm excited about the train like hell app. It's coming out soon. I'm going to start posting about it soon. I didn't want to annoy the it's just bodybuilding crowd, but I thought I'd give you guys the update. I love it. I'll be posting about it too. I want to I have one question. So Edminton is east of one province over. How far east can you go and still be west coast iron? Well, I actually a question because they're in the western conference. Okay. Okay. In the NHL. They're the two time champs. It stops there. We were excited for you. We saw that posted and that was our question. So here's my question. If you're eating at Tokyo Express, does it matter what city you're in? I've never been to Tokyo, but I've been to Tokyo Express alone. I've been to neither, but I get the point. I think it's a fair, fair response. Boston pizza, one of my favorite pizza places. Never been to Boston in my life. Invented in Emmitton. Not even from Boston to Canadian. I like it. Jersey mics. You know what I mean? His name's not even Mike. I wore California bodywear for years and I didn't live in California. There's a lot of things. We're bringing the west coast iron vibe to Emmitton. I like that. We're going to have the west coast feel. You know, we've got the woodwork on the staircase and all like. It's going to have a real cool vibe. We're going to bring some west coast sort of styling in there and make it unique to something that Emmitton doesn't have any of. I want to add one thing that I'm really curious to see how you do. Sorry for those who don't care. But the thing that makes west coast iron really special actually is your staff. Right. You guys have a staff that cares. I was just in Florida over the weekend and we went to a bunch of restaurants. We went to a bar and our first day of the camera table was awesome. Then our waitress came and she was incredible. And then I started looking around, I was watching the bartender and I'm watching other things and I go, oh no. The owner of this business expects everyone to be this good. And the experience was phenomenal and it immediately made me think when I saw the west coast iron thing go up and I'm like, that's the hardest thing to reproduce because when I come into your gym, I've watched members come in, not mutant bodybuilders, not that stuff. And I see the exact same thing and that's something where when a new gym opens up down the street that has some fun new equipment, people might visit there, but they're not leaving. It's not family. Right. Right. And it comes from the owners being around all the time with the staff and the staff see how the owners talk to people. So then they take that on and then they see how management talks to people and they take that on and it just becomes part of the expected culture, right? You know, it's like you just, you know, I remember bars I worked at were like, the boss would say to me, I want you to say like, hello to every single person. Like, you know, I remember early and I remember as a dormant, every single person that would come up to the door, you know, you got to line up, you're holding the lineup, every single person that come to the door, I'm like, how are you guys doing tonight? I'd be like, good, I'm like, where else have you been tonight? What's going on? Have you checked out where you're at the restaurant and other club like talking to them, talking to them. And I remember like hundreds of times people would leave and they'd go, you're the nicest bouncer I've ever met. And I'm like, well, it's just because I was nice to you at the door talking to you and creating a culture before you come in. And when you take, I think one thing that I contribute to the gym because we all have our strengths is I have like 16 years of nightclub and it's the people business. It's not about the booze. You could have a shit hole Irish public. This one place I worked in, it was it, you turn the lights on and you're like, this place is a shit hole. But you turn the lights down, crank some music, put a bunch of fun people in there. It's a fun, was it popping off every night? Yeah. So it's about the staff and it's about the vibe that the owners create with the staff and the culture of that. And that's just, you got to start there. So, you know, I'm excited. Yeah. I'm excited for you guys to bring that there though. I think that'll actually be the thing that set you apart even more was coming up point. Yeah. So, looking forward to it and I'll be there as soon as it opens. Yes. I'm going to have to have it. We're going to have to have it. It's just bodybuilding grand opening. Oh, yes. Okay, guys. Thanks, everybody. Remember, I'm mutant.com. Dusty Bigron. Get your I'm mutant.com. Deliver to your door. Avoid people. Don't leave the house. There you go. Get the jug. Thanks, guys. It's just bodybuilding.

What's up guys, welcome back to Bloods Wet and Gear with Coaches. Skip Hill and you're bearing myself Scott McNally all over programming is brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code think over there for additional savings on high quality third party test and supplements all your basic stuff like creatin, intra workout, protein powder. We are brought to you by supplement source dot CA for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. And of course we're brought to you by patreon either this episode or the next episode. We've got some patreon questions. We're going to tackle those and we are joined by a special guest today. We've got Andrew Ritter with us. I don't think it's a stretch to say that you could be a freaking phenomenal pro in the future man. I met you at the Olympia. You just happened to be walking by and you're like, oh, hey Scott, listen to the podcast. It's like, oh, no kidding. The guy I was talking to knew you. He was another listener of the show. He was like, oh, that's Andrew. I know Andrew. He's a good bodybuilder. So I was like, oh, no kidding. So we talked for a minute. We reconnected on social media and I was like, hey, man, let's get you on the show. I wanted to introduce you to our audience and you know, just hear what you're all about. I don't know anything other than your coach by Chris Tuttle and you've got a freaky physique. You haven't even competed yet, right? Yeah, I've never competed. I've never been in the coach. Wow. That's wild, man. That's wild. I'm just a great skip so that you can see what he looks like. Check this out. So here's the picture. It's cute that you assumed I didn't do my due diligence. Oh, no, I knew. I knew. I knew. Exactly. You knew. So these are what? These are a week ago, Andrew? Yeah, about a week ago. Okay. You got the good, man. Hasn't competed yet, but I do have seven pair of trunks. Yeah. I was giving those spots from life. I was looking for them heads. Okay. You got to get the trunks, man. You are going to be the most prepared physique athlete, probably to ever step on stage for the first time. Not only do you have the physique, you've obviously got the pedigreeb and your posing looks great and you've got sound coaching from Chris Tuttle. So it's, it's, I feel bad for the rest of the competition. I really do. I actually feel bad for the guys doing nationals. It's a straight front double here. So yeah. Yeah. So what's the game playing going to be? What are you guys, what are you guys considering? So we just hopped into a growth phase, like literally two days ago and then we were just riding that out and then he wants me to do North America's or USA's is the, is the plan. Okay. From there, it goes. Correct. What's your height and weight? Uh, right now, five, seven, two, twenty six. This hasn't go with age. Is that okay? I'm 21. Yeah. That's what I figured. 21 pants. How long have you been left in? I've been left in for roughly four and a half years. Okay. How did you get into it? I just, my dad used to work out and then like I wanted to be his baby, my dad. And so I just started. He was pretty big. He wasn't a bodybuilder. He just, like, he was the one like black guy that would just like going there and like bench four or five for reps. I know that guy. I know your dad. I know your dad. Yeah. I mean, your dad would tell me. I used to spot him. Yeah. Doritos, Mountain Dew, and Jack. So that's, yeah. So, Andrew, are you, are you, are you in college right now or did you graduate? What's, what, what do you, what do you do in such high school? No, I, so I just, I finished high school and then I worked for like a new thing company for a, for pretty much like 18 to like a few months ago. Okay. And then, and then I saw I wasn't prepped. We were prepping for a junior USA, well, a regional show and then junior USA's and we were trying to make classic weight cap. And then, uh, how to get surgery? I had a really bad infection. So I had a full out of that competition. And then like, to go break, went to a growth phase. And then I was as a recently like, I make enough, make enough money from sponsors and then like, coaching to like, just live off bodybuilding pretty much. I literally live in the gym because there's not a lot of 20, 20 year old kids that can jump right to just, hey, my main focus for the day is the two hours in the gym. Everything else is just meals, relaxing therapy, whatever I need to do to perform my best. So that, that's a unique opportunity. And obviously I can tell you're making the most of it, which is amazing. What, what would you say? So you, you're trying to get the classic weight. And are you finding that's going to be hard because you said what, five, seven, two, three, six, you're pretty lean right now. Yeah, no, there's, I don't think that we could, we couldn't make classic now. Okay, that's what we're going to do. Now back then we were trying, we were like, if you go, I have pictures on Instagram or whatever, but I was like, I was like 200 pounds and we were trying to make, we were hoping I could get to the 187 cap, like up and including five eight. Yep. And then we were digging and digging and I had a really bad infection and I got like septic septic, septic, whatever you call it. And then I had full out and we were like, like four weeks out and we were just like, okay, it's done. And then took time off and then I had growth phase and then here I am now. Okay. So is this a competition? Yeah, because I'm going to say, I'm going to compete in this show or I could die of subsist. It was a good call. Yeah. It was, I mean, that's serious. I'm making, it's an attempt at levity, but the truth is, and that's, that's serious. And I was, what, a 19, right then. Okay. So this is where you were you doing shooting for classic at this point, I take it? Yeah. I think I was about like two, 18, two, 16 right then somewhere around there. Oh, you used to be coached by one of my clients actually. Yeah. I was coached by him on prep. Gotcha. Okay. So, yeah, but what I'm going, where I was going with the original questioning was you, you found out very quickly that you were never going to make classic weight. Like, yeah. Like, I got to told you that looking at you and then just seeing where you are today, you'd be like, yeah, you're going to be a super heavyweight very, very soon. If you don't turn pro, I mean, you're probably turn pro as a lay heavier heavy, right? But the room for growth and how young you are, like, I, you know, I think you're going to be 245 on stage within the next three, four years as well. I'm saying it five, seven, that'll be crazy, man. Yeah, I appreciate it. Yeah. Yeah, we, we never, I never ran like a much year to try and make classic. We had to run like very little compared to most people to try to make classic. Now I was losing tissue pretty, pretty fast to make classic and it wasn't worth it. Okay. We, we talked a little bit before the show because I had asked them, I was like, hey, do you mind talking about gear and stuff and any, Andrew? It said, no, I think whatever you guys want to talk about what, and you mentioned you just started a growth phase now. Like, what, what does that plan look like for you at this point? Yeah. So it's just test EQ and then the tiny spit of GH. Okay, I'd say four units five times a week just because I get, I get, I get really bad tendonitis and so we think that GH probably makes my tendonitis a lot worse. And so we don't, we don't run a lot of GH and then he'm a log with four meals. Okay. Okay. Can I just be representative of the viewers, at least a handful of the viewers. So full of crap. I know he's using a lot of gear, man. They don't ever tell the truth. I don't know why they do that. If they would just tell us what the secret is, they want to hide it and everything. There's no way that's the head to be. He's taking the last time I can continue. I can't. I know what it was that. Yeah. Exactly. No. Yeah. That's the unfortunate truth. I got a clip here from Chris because I asked Chris. I was like, hey, man, you know, we were going to interview Andrew today. And I figured I'd ask him for some, some thoughts. He sent me a voice memo and I said, hey, can I play this on the show? And you guys tell me if you can hear this. Okay. Because I'm just going to play it off my phone. Andrew, what can I see about Andrew? Obviously, we all know looking at him. One hell of a physique. We'll talk about genetics. It's on another level, right? So with genetics comes, a lot of people in your ear, blowing up expectations and unfortunately, expectations in such a young athlete who has such potential can lead to detriment because the individual starts to create his fear that they're not going to live up to these expectations. And that's something we've seen with Tray Brewer and some other competitors in the past that do live to the height. Yep. I found him turned off. There we go. He's then cracked because of the pressure. So if I can keep him on a good, even headspace with that will be good. And the other is becoming over analytical. He's a little bit over analytical. And I think that could come from the expectations that he places on himself due to the height that's created around him because of his physique is so incredible. People see how tell him how good he's going to be and that content tend to create that, making sure you're doing everything perfect. You want to be perfect, perfect, perfect. Which we all know can be very detrimental and bodybuilding. And obviously, the third is he's pretty injury prone, more injury prone, I've ever seen anybody. And that's kind of just learning how to navigate proper training. And obviously, when you're young, you throw a piston vinegar, a lot of strength, your body isn't hurt yet. So you tend to push too hard. So if we can manage injuries and we can manage those expectations and pressure, still from toxic women, this is going to be incredible. So our plan for him is to obviously get his qualification, but I want him to give his pro card the first time out. And obviously, there's only some of these we can control that, you know, who shows up, but I want him to be unbelievable. So we're planning on the end of 2026, mid 2025. We'll see how he progresses. But few months working together, one hell of a kid, I really enjoy working with them. Great communication is very coachable. That's cool. And I have high hopes for him. I just want to keep him in the even, playing around. I'm really, really, very sad. I got to keep his head on straight. That's what I'm going to say. You know, being young and again, those expectations, it's very hard because you're being pulled in so many different directions. And we've all been there young and not taken advice we should have. So I'm excited for the year. That's for sure. I will be traveling to Andrew's show. No doubt. Nice. Nice. How do you feel about that, man? How did everything that he has to say? No, Taddles is very good coach. He's like, he's kind of like a dad. Like he cares more about his clients than most than any coach, most coaches in the world. I would say him. I think that's cool. The most important piece of advice that I heard him say, and this is from the dinosaur in the room, is the fact that you're coachable. And that's a big deal, especially when you're young. For those reasons that he stated, everybody's in your ear, everybody's telling you what you could do. The other part is the expectation. I found it ironic, and this is not a shot at Chris. But you know, he's talking about the expectations and how that can add stress and, you know, make it. He says, you know, we want to get the card the first time. Of course, but there's a higher expectation. So I just would say this, and this isn't to say that he's that Chris is wrong. It's not what I was saying. But it's also okay if you don't get that card the first time. It doesn't take away from what you've gotten front of you because you've got a long road. If you can manage the injuries, keep your head straight. You got a long lucrative career in bodybuilding, I think. Well, Chris says it just comes from experience. I mean, every national show, I feel like it's me and Chris sit together and we just sit there and watch the physiques, watch the physiques. And you just know a good physique. If he comes in in shape, he's going to be the guy. Yeah, it's going to take a super duper extra freaky guy from the planet, whatever that at list, our comment that's coming towards us. It's going to take the alien guy off that to be the guy that we're talking about. So yeah, it just comes from experience. I don't think he's putting any undue expectations to expect a pro card out of the first run. I mean, just looking at those first initial pictures on your Instagram, structures there, muscle bellies are there. Only things left is to come in in condition and you got the right man for it. So yeah, there is always that guy. I mean, I remember following nationals really close a few years back when Nate went up against Nick Walker. And when Nick showed up, he was the guy that year, you know, it was like, you could see it. Just Nick walked on stage and you're like, oh, yeah, Nick's the guy. Like Carlos Thomas Jr. A couple of years later, it perfect. Yeah, it perfect. Another perfect example. There's always there's always one guy usually at nationals or one of these national shows that everyone in Instagram world's been buzzing about and rightfully so it very rarely does that person let you down. They go and get the pro card. They probably win the overall and they go on and have a good, you know, success. I remember when you were or or dareclone's for dareclone's for Wednesday, you know, say we are we're already talking about always probably going to win Tampa and we're going to he goes and wins Tampa week later. He was that good, you know, yeah. Hey, what's going on guys? Just a quick shot out to true nutrition. I figured I'd bring you to the home gym here. So welcome. And I just wanted to show you my order. So nothing big deal. I've got a few pounds of the cold filtered weight. I so I'm a big fan of the cookie butter flavor. I've been on this this year. This is like, then my favorite. It's a very light protein overall. It's not going to blow your digestion down. It's not going to cause a bunch of water retention. This is the kind of protein that I suggest to people who are doing a contest prep. They've got all your basic bodybuilding supplements like creatin. They've got great intro workout, highly brand sick like dextrin, which is the high end. And then they've got the cheaper stuff like carbolode, like anybody can afford that. And of course, use our code. Think it'll get you 10% off. They really kicked up. It used to only be 5%. You get 10% off if you use the code. And it throws some money our way too. So it definitely helps the podcast out of time. Yeah. So what's up with the injury stuff? He was saying that you're super prone to injuries. And I had talked to him a little bit more than that. He said, you guys are, your training is not as high volume as he would generally have guys at your age. Can you tell us a little bit more about those aspects? Yeah. So the injury problem? Yeah. I was like, break bones easy, but I like tear things. And I just like joined to ligaments. They get very beat up very easily. And so like last year, like 13 months ago, I broke my wrist and then two bones in my thumb. Just from like I was on a scooter in Nashville and I fell and broke it. And so I was out for like eight weeks. And then I ran when I joined a total. I was doing a pendulum squats. And I got this really bad knee pain. And I couldn't even do a body weight squat for like six, seven weeks. And so we were going to rehab that. And then about like maybe three or four weeks ago, I could start like implementing some like leg exercises again. And so we got into that. But then when that was starting to heal up, I got the tendon issue in my hand. Like this thumb, like I can move it about like this far. Like this tendon right here is like really swollen. And like this one I can like, you know, I can do that. Yeah. So I get very injured a lot. So like I'll have like a good like eight weeks. And I'll like grow really fast. And then like I'll get out like injured, lose some size, lose some progression and then shoot back up. And kind of just like a yo yo back and forth. Like it keeps going up, but it's back and forth. Yeah. Into the low volume. So like I do, I can't recover as fast as a lot of people can. Like I total had me doing like nine sets of back and then 12 sets of back. Like every three and every four days. Okay. It was like, it was like two failure. Like it was like one to iron or like last set failure. Like I could recover like I'd be sore for like five, six days. And like I was like, not progressing on my lips. So we had like a just volume until like I could like recover from a session to session. So what's it look like now? So he has me. So I used to always do like two times a week, everything because I think frequency is important. But like for me, if I can't progress in like doing three sets for a muscle group, isn't as good as let's say like nine sets once a week, I think. I see any more stimulus per session than three sets. So it's six sets of back, two times every eight days, two times a week, or two times every eight days, I guess. And then chest once a week, which is I think like eight sets and then like four sets of shoulders twice a week. And then I do six sets of quads and then five sets of hamstrings every eight days. And then I'm just six sets of byes and six sets of tries a week. So you're already not 21 years old because the average 21 year old would be sticking to this man. I got to do this like why I just keep grinding harder and harder. It's going to fix itself. So you know, that tells me too, you're a little bit ahead of the game. Part of that being coach, you are writing that feedback exactly. And reading feedback, which is important because so many people don't matter. In fact, older dudes don't dinosaurs don't they get set in those ways and they have their patterns and it's hard to fix it. At least with your age, those patterns aren't set. They haven't been set for years or arguably decades and they can be changed. So that's good. Yeah, I was a I was self coached for like about five, six months before, and I was like, I've kind of hard self coached like you're over analyzing and stuff. Like I can make a meal plan for myself, but like I'm sitting there trying to self coach myself. It's a little challenging. So I was like, I need someone that I really respect and I know has built physics that like I want to achieve. Yeah. And so I was like, Huddled is the person I want. And then so I text a title and then he was like, okay, let's go. And so here we are. That's cool. That's cool. That's cool. What do you know he was saying too? Like all the the people in your ears. I because I'm sure of it, man, you know, I met you and I'm like, hey, you want to come on the podcast? You know, and I'm sure that you get a lot of people who are like reaching out, they want something from you or they want to throw advice at you. Hey, you got to do it this way. Do that. You know, can you talk to us a little bit about the that kind of pressure being, you know, fairly young in the sport and and you know, having a promising feature. Can you tell us about what that experience is like kind of getting hounded by people and and you know, the as he said, the pressure that goes into that. Yeah, I'm like, I'd say like it's pressure, but like I think it's more I get more I have more pressure on myself like for me to win for my own goals and career than like other people said on me because like I am pretty much betting on myself to do good and bodybuilding so I can like further my career and make a career out of it pretty much. And so it's like it's kind of like I need to do this. I need to I need to win. I need to be the best bodybuilder. So that gives me stress because of how I get injured so often like fuck like this is so many like another step back, another step back, whatever. And then I get stressed out and then it's a lot of time you're fine. We'll go over this. And then he's like, if you just stay healthy for even just one good growth phase, then you can do big things. And so what do those weights look like? Not specific numbers, but I'm curious. You know, are you are you banging like a typical 21 year old in the sense that I want to move as much weight as I can or is Chris pulling you back a little bit on that or have you decided yeah, okay, maybe I should pull myself back or are you just taking advantage of the fact that I was going to say you're made of rubber, but you've already proven that you're not made of rubber like a typical 21 year old. So there's that. But have you have you noticed that? And the reason that I asked this is because you know, I've been around a long time. So I competed against Phil. I was backstage when Phil met Jay Cutler years ago in Colorado. And one of the things that he told Phil not at that moment, but in the gym while I had him under his wing was he's like, whoa, whoa, whoa. You can move the one sixties. You can move the one seventies. But if you want to stay in this game for a long time, those one thirties are going to work just fine. So just kind of relating it to that. Are you holding back? Are you still getting what you can out of those poundages? And where are you with that? Yeah, like I used to be four total. I was a bit more a bit like kind of like the Doreen age Jordan Peters approach. Like it was like, do not miss like you need to progress every session in reps or weight. And so like I'd go do like like 365 and incline Smith machine and like every week I would try to progress and progress and progress. And the same thing was like leg press where I was like ending up like full stacking leg press machines or like doing six, seven plates on a pendulum squad. And then I got a total of those like total, total is like you're not a bodybuilder. It's a great lifter. And so he has me sending training clips a lot, making sure I don't just like get too hyped and like do too much weight and then just like go from eight to eight. And I used to do a lot of lower reps stuff. Oh, okay. Maybe you guys changed that now. Yeah, I do more like I stick to more about like eight to 15 or so for everything. Okay. Yeah, you're actually so technical looks really good on everything. Yeah, looking at the sea. They're watching here. You know, it's like really nice control and everything. Yeah. Yeah, this is like I think it's like my second leg session back or maybe third. Okay. Yeah, I mean, just out of curiosity like where where I'm in Florida, Anders in Florida, Scott's in essentially eight, day two, M and M territory. Yeah. I'm in a Nashville. Oh, okay. Okay, subbergs a national. Yeah, I hear Tennessee is a good good state for bodybuilding overall. I'm going to say for food. Yeah, especially breakfast. Nashville's a foodie town. Oh, yeah. Yeah, there's a lot of there's a lot of chicken places around here. Yeah, I don't say it's I don't think it's good for body, but it isn't there's like the gym out that right. I'm at right now. I just go to that gym and that's probably the best gym I could find. Okay. Like a 50 mile radius. Okay. I guess I just think of like that Murphy's bro area where. Yeah, Murphy's bro. Yeah, it's a brand curry's out. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it's a cool gyms out there. In Murphy's bro's not bad. It has a carbon and stuff, which is why I used to go to. Oh, you used to go out there, huh? Yeah. Yeah, I've met Brandon sometimes. Yeah, he's really cool. Can I throw it in a little piece of dinosaur advice for you? I was going to say earlier, but I didn't want to sidetrack the conversation earlier. So I was kind of waiting, but I want to go back to when you were explaining what you do. Andrew asked you what you doing. You were saying what you had done since you finished high school. And I sensed a little bit of apprehension, almost like, okay, I was, I was moving like I was doing some moving stuff. And I kind of got the feeling and I could be completely wrong, but almost like you felt like, okay, I have to justify this like, like you're getting like the rest of us, all of us. I was just judging by society based on what we're doing. And then you went into the bodybuilding component of it where you're getting, you know, you're getting paid. You're starting to get paid for just training. And I would say this. I don't know if this is how you feel, but I would understand if you did that you're going to be judged on that. And all I would say is you have something in front of you that you, that the vast majority of people dream of doing. So if you ever feel guilty about making money, what most would deem the easy way, F everybody else. If you get to sit around and train a couple hours a day and you get to play Nintendo or Mario Brothers or whatever the hell is going to get it myself with that. But nonetheless, you get to play a target feel. Yeah, exactly. Oh, yeah, exactly. But don't ever feel, don't ever feel guilty about that. And I don't know that you do, but I just kind of sensed it with that like you had to justify that, okay, maybe I'm making easy money over here. Easy money is the best money in the world. Okay. So I'm just giving, I'm just lending you that piece of advice there. F what everybody else says, do your thing. Yeah, yeah, I don't, I don't feel like guilty, but I would say that recently I have had it easier than other people. Like moving, moving, I worked for a, my work for a missing company. It sucked. Oh, man, it's not easy work. In summer, 12 hour days and then going to hit legs after that and then waking back up with like five six AM, that was a thousand times harder than waking up, doing fast cardio, answering check ins and then like posting like code room or something like payroll supplements or whatever. Sure. Yeah. And you're going to have those friends who are doing the same thing because they may be busing their ass. That's okay. Follow the dream. Yeah. Or I'll have like friends like I was jealous of like they were doing what I'm doing now. And I was like, I need to be like them. I was like, they can bodybuild full time. It's so much easier to bodybuild when you just only bodybuild. It's such a double edge sword. Yeah. I'm thinking back to the part of it where you would said like you put the pressure on yourself. I get it. I get it because I feel that way about everything I do with coaching, with the podcast like this is my career, right? And there's other people out there who do a podcast and they just do it for fun because they want to do a podcast. You know what I'm saying? And to them, it's not nearly as important that the show does well as it is for me, somebody who like this is the thing that I do as and the same with coaching. There's people who like just coach because they want to make a few extra bucks on the side. They're making some like money so they can buy something nice for their girlfriend or whatever and show off on Instagram. And it's kind of cool, you know, to be a coach. But when you're coaching because that's your income, I feel like it does force you to take it seriously more seriously. I feel like when this is how you pay your bills, there is an air of like, hey, if I don't, so I get it, man, you're saying like, hey, I get hurt. That means if me getting hurt means I can't go to the gym, that affects my ability to pay the electric bill this month or pay my health care. You know, stuff like that. So I think at one side of it, I think that that's awesome because it does force you. Like Dorian said, he didn't have a plan B. It was his only thing that he could do. But on the other side, man, it has a lot of freaking pressure to put on yourself. You know, it, it, it, my fear is, I think that sometimes it's like, we get into things because we initially had a passion for them. And then it becomes the job and we can still love it, but it can be easier to kind of get. I don't know. Like, you guys, you guys know what I'm talking about? It becomes obligatory. Yeah, it becomes obligatory. Sure. It may come a time where you don't enjoy it. And you know what? Shit out of luck. I, I think the other thing to point out though, so because you invested, you're at, like you put your eggs in this basket, which is great. I'm totally supportive of it, right? One, there's no 401k for coaches and bodybuilders, right? So it means you got to develop some financial literacy and some financial intelligence at a young age that maybe your friends don't have to that have a job that is paying a salary, benefits for a okay retirement plan, right? So it means you have to mature probably faster than your friends in, in some way, shape or form. And then the other thing is, what was my other point? I already forgot it, damn it. Skip say something. The pressure. What I was coming back to though was the pressure that you put on yourself with that. Yeah. I think you got to use that as, you know, I've, I've, I use the word motivation, but because it's like you're going to, you're in the primary life, you're going to do everything you can to build the physique of your dreams and to make it lucrative in the sense that sponsors want to keep sponsoring you and people want to keep paying to come watch you and shows. So I mean, the motivation is there obviously, but I think, I think you're probably asking yourself the right questions like, okay, you know, like you said, I want to have that life that my friend has, right? But now you're in that life, really start thinking, look up to, look up to other guys, like I think a good example of someone who was in a situation just like you, Evan sent to Pawnee, you know, he won nationals at a very young age and he started making money with the supplement contracts. He had a really good mentor. He told me that was in the financial industry and got him into investing, saving at a very young age. And that's what he does professionally now. He's my financial guy. So I know that. I know that. Yeah, my advice to you is to start making those adult decisions or start having those adult thoughts in terms of, hey, like if you did have a catastrophic injury, you have this gap of time from high school to now where you didn't do anything productive in society's point of view, right? I know I sound like a downer, right? I'm trying to, I'm trying to make this like a positive like advice type thing because the guys I see that are thinking this way, like they start thinking, okay, I got my money coming in from bodybuilding. Now I'm going to apply my intelligence to, I'm going to start a business, maybe related to bodybuilding. Now I got another income stream. So if I do get hurt or I can't compete for two years, okay, I got something to fall back on whether it's coaching, maybe start in your own supplement company. I think I saw, do you have a T-shirt company or a clothing company? I'm sponsored by a pharaoh supplements. Okay. I thought I saw on your Instagram, was there another clothing company or was there control insanity? I'm sponsored by them as well. Gotcha, okay. They have like the Justin Shire and like Quinn Beasts wouldn't all them. Nice. So you're in good company then. Yeah. Yeah. To cut to your point, Andrew, and currently if I'm wrong, what basically what you're saying is you can eliminate or reduce some of that fear. If there might be a little something on the side in case something does go south, it doesn't take away from the passion of your goals. Exactly. You know what you want to do, but you've got an option B so that you can continue to enjoy it versus that being this obligatory. I have no other choice. This is what I have to do. There will be days. There will be 21 that you don't want to get in that dive. Yeah. Oh, no question. You know, but you're getting advice from everybody. So, you know, I feel guilty going down that path, but at the same time, you know what? I looked back when I was 21 and I wish I would have gotten more advice. I probably wouldn't have listened to it. I'll be honest. But I wish I'd have gotten that advice and had the opportunity to at least weigh those things out in it and I didn't. No, I listen to everybody. Everybody that gives me advice I listen to because it's very helpful because like I don't know, I don't know shit. I don't know like anything about financial advisors or like investing or anything. So, the worst case scenario really, let's, I'll put it on the table. Something happens three, four or five years. You're back moving furniture. And I'm not saying that that is not a good way to make it living or anything else. That's not what I'm saying. So, anybody who's listening, what I'm saying is this, that will psychologically strike you as I just went backwards. I went back to what I was doing before and that puts you back to that younger age and you will feel psychologically, literally like you failed. And that I can't think of anything worse than that type of feeling than feeling like you're going backwards. Well, let's just look at it like even at your age skip because you're not a young chicken and neither is Kodden. Like if suddenly the coaching industry was done, right? The IFBB dissolve, NPCs, there's no one that can coach any more of some law passed or some shit, right? What would we all do? You know what I'm saying? And unless you have some backups that are going and this is the same thing that applies to you, we all have these thoughts and these conversations as coaches. We're like a prime example was during the COVID year, 2020 when everything shut down. A lot of coaches who already had a ton of clients were sitting there saying, well, if the governance tell people they can't work and half these people are getting laid off, that means they can't pay me. What does that mean for me and my income, right? So just you got to start having those thoughts and those conversations with yourself on what's go fund me accounts during the 2020 COVID that when all these guys were claiming about all the money they had and two months later, they couldn't get through three or four months without that income. And I'm not laughing because it's funny. Yeah, it's kind of funny. It's kind of funny. It is kind of funny because that that just kind of you screwed yourself by being so arrogant and acting like you had so much money. And then as soon as it's gone for two months, you're screwed. So that's a really good example. I got a lot of question. I got a fun question. I'm going to steer away from the darkness skip. Cats. Cats. You guys have something in common. I don't think that Andrew has as many cats as you have yet. He's close. I think he said three, right? Yeah, how many cats have? Everywhere. Yeah. No, I got five. You five. I would only have two if it weren't for my daughters. I've had too many kids. So I had the three. We have four kids. Three of the girls brought a cat home. Well, you like cats. You had a kid and she's kind of cute. And she brings home a cat. You're not going to be like, OK, the cat can't stay because you see the cat and the cat's kind of cute and you're a cat guy. So you feel me? I mean, you see what I'm doing here. You got four cats, Andrew. Yeah. Then it's five. Yeah. Yeah. I love cats. Like, yeah, if I still weren't on like the street, whatever, it was like super sick, I would probably take it in. But like, out of, when you got bigger, I'd be a little upset because cats are bare little bitches sometimes. They take, they take. Do you have like, are they kind of mutt cats or like, what do you have? What do you have? I have two orange tabbies and they're all, they're all guys and they're all, uh, neutered. Let me ask you this without getting, you know, Debbie down here, but have the two orange boys had any health problems? Yeah. Yeah, we got all done from a, we got all done from a, okay, what's up? What did he go again? You all got him from like a cat rescue place? OK. And, huh? And, uh, one of the orange cats had a, he has like an ID effect where like his eye is like, like cataracts or something. It's very blurry. So he, he's kind of like partially blinded on one eye, but the other one is completely fine. OK. The reason I asked is you got to watch out for your and their issues cost me $12,000 on an orange, our, our orange cat. So it was either that or put him down and it got to three hours before putting him down and I called my wife slightly emotional. I said, we have to do this surgery like I can't not do it. There's a double negative, but whatever I can say what I want. I just wondered. I was just curious. Have you guys looked at an insurance for cats? I have insurance for my cats. Yeah. And it was still $12,000. Give. Uh, let's just say I got that after. Oh, yeah. And understand, I mean, I've got a Savannah and after Savannah and I've got a Bengal, I mean, they're, they're expensive. The other three are the mutt cats, but they have cost every bit as much as the Bengal and the Savannah combined. So it is, I learned that lesson the hard way. What, uh, Dom asked us, what's your favorite go to cheat meal, Andrew? Probably just probably just sushi, honestly, or just a basic burger and fry. Oh, true, true bodybuilder. True bodybuilder. That's what I always think you do. I'm, I'm not special. I let it eat just chicken and rice and veggies and then beef and rice and then cream rice. And then you have to talk in about five years when you're making a lot of money and you figure out that there's really good food out there. Skips really stuck up about his food. Yeah. I am a, I am a foodie and I am a snap. There's no question. Yeah, I think the only cheat meal I get is like, I go to like this like sports grill, place sports bar and grill near me. I'll get a burger and fry or like, if it's like a lunch special, I'll go get like eight rolls of sushi for like $25. And then I'll say for my post work out. Nice. So are you a guy that like, do you push a lot of food to put size on or what is your diet look like? Yeah. So yeah, when I first got a total he actually wanted me to send pictures of me eating all my meals every day at one point because he didn't believe that I was eating all my meals because I had so much food. So I think so we got up to, I think it was about 950 carb, like 141.30 fat and then like 380 protein, whatever my, whatever I'm trying to do on my fitness pal. Okay. But so he does everything in like 15 gram carb, increments I think. So it was like, I think it was like 465 rice per meal and then like plus you're like 115 grams of pineapple or 100 grams of blueberries per meal. And then 15 grams of oil. And that was spread out through five meals a day. And then plus like oats and peanut butter and then 60 grams of intram. You keep the food up pretty high when you were dieting previously or yeah, yeah, yeah, I wasn't. Yeah, yeah, I was a bit smaller back then, but my food was, I think it was like 3000 on rest days and like things like 3700 training and like 4,000 high days. And that got me down from like 230 to like 195 or 96. Hey, I had one more. I'm no question. I'm the party of the prep like it. I got all more. This is this is from Jonathan. He asked us. He said, uh, it's not an important question. He said, we'll ask, we'll ask you first. Would you take a million dollars in exchange for quitting bodybuilding and all exercise? Let's say that it wouldn't be detrimental for your health to quit exercise though. No, I'm not. You could make more than a million bucks. Yeah, you could make more than a million bucks. Even if I couldn't make more than a million dollars, like, I like, bodybuilding is like what I wake up to do. So we've got a mortgage though. The answer might vary a little differently when you got a mortgage and you got like, you know, like responsibilities. Yeah, but but but even then still like, like you should have said like 10 million dollars Jonathan. Yeah, you know, something that's like, yeah, yeah, a little unattainable for. But you know what? I think the million puts it in because you just sounded like me when you said that, Andrew, and like, well, wait till you have a mortgage. I think I'm thinking wait until you've done it for a while and you realize that you are not going to go any further in sport. You are tapped out genetically and, you know, that sort of thing. And then it's like, okay, no, I should have taken a million. Prior to that, you're like, I don't know. I'm living the dream here. So I get it. That's an age difference. That's a that's a, I don't say wisdom, but it's an experience type thing where, yeah, I mean, if I was 21, there was no way you would have talked me into that. And a million dollars back then, substantially more than what it is now. In the 1960s, two or a million dollars was like three million. That's horrible. That's horrible. Man, this is a, this is awesome. I'm really glad that you could take the time hang out with us and we could get to know you a little bit better. I'm excited for 26. I'm going to be following your Instagram and I'll have that listed below for anybody else who wants to follow you. We can, we can see what you do next year either possibly USA's, possibly North Americans. That'll be, that'll be cool, man. Tell us about your, your sponsors. You said you got a couple of them, right? Yeah. So Ferris supplements. They're like the, I know you don't know who the different twins are. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So you have them as supplement brand. And then so that I'm their first and only athlete right now. Okay. And so I'll go like, I want to be a Olympia with them like a few weeks ago. And that's why you were there. Okay. Yeah. And so I'm with them. So I just get supplied a crazy amount of Kramer ice and protein powder. Safety a lot of money. Yeah. A lot of people. I ate a lot of Kramer ice. And then control insanity. This is the clothing brand I'm with. And I've been with them for probably like six, seven months now. Pretty much after I got on the prep after I went into prep, then like I started getting some traction and some sponsor of stuff. That's cool. I'm sure it's only going to pick up this next year too. So what you, you were hanging out then with the trend twins. Do that booth was freaking busy, wasn't it? Yes. Yeah, they are famous. They're very popular. They're, they're more popular than body butters. Yeah. That's pretty crazy. There were more people hanging out to meet them than there were to meet like any of the pros guys. It was, it was like the craziest, most busy part of the expo was down there by them. And I think young LA was down there a couple other things too that all the, all the young people were hanging out to watch. Yeah, Sam Suleik and then the trend twins. Yeah. All right, but we appreciate you having to hear, man. And like I said, we'll put links in the description. Anybody wants to follow what you're doing. And yeah, man, this has been an absolute pleasure. Thank you. Nice to see you, man. Yeah, I look up to you all a lot from we're pulling for you. Thank you. See you. See you. Yeah, that's cool, man. Yeah, yeah, that made me feel old. Yeah, I know what, but it is cool because I see that. Don't we all see a little bit of him not the genetic potential in ourselves, though at that age? I you know, listen to him. It takes me back. I don't know if it did the same thing for you guys, but yeah, I took me back to man. He's just kind of living it. You know, it's all new to him. It's all fresh. It's all awesome. He hasn't been jaded by the industry. Yeah, he turned into an asshole. You know what I mean? Got the humility. It doesn't take me back because I think when we were that age, the opportunities for 2021 year olds were just not the same. You know what I mean? Like they're not that aspect. But it's almost like college football. Like they sign, they're signing like kids in high school at 14 now, right? To commit to big time football. That's wild. Yeah, but it's almost like the same thing. This guy and the guy is going to go for next year, whatever whichever show he is. Yeah, but it's like, has it yet to step on stage and already has contracts, which kudos to him. You know, if I was a supplement company owner, I try to lock him up into a three to five-year deal immediately. Oh, no. Right. Yeah, right. So, yeah, opportunities are there for these guys. Yeah, I don't know. That name of that asshole name filled, isn't it? A little bit. Yeah, actually, I mean, it kind of does. And he looks better. I'd like not to talk about that because I've talked about it so much. And it's a dated, you know, that's a few years ago. But there are parallels there. One could argue he looks genetically superior at this point in time than he did at that point in time. That's a good point to you, man. Yeah. Good fine, Toddle. Good fine. Yeah, that's cool. He's a nice guy too, like super pleasant, super friendly. And like I said, he's so he knew the show. He listens to us. We didn't get into all that, but he's, he's, uh, yeah. So that's kind of cool. Oh, no, I want to make sure I understand Andrew Linson's task. Yeah, he knew Scott. He recognized, he recognized, he recognized, he got it. That's how I met him at the, at the Olympia. I was just standing out in the middle of the aisle. I wasn't even at the booth. And another guy stopped me. And I was talking to him. And, and as Andrew walked by, he was like, oh, hey, what's up, Scott? I love the podcast. And I was like, oh, thanks, man. And the other guy was, another young guy. He was like, oh, that's, that's Andrew. I know him. He's a good bodybuilder. You know, he's working with Chris Tull, like he's, he knew all the stats, you know what I mean? So that was kind of cool. So I was like, hey, good to meet you, man. And I said, hey, you know, what's your Instagram? I'm going to follow you. And then I thought about it the day or two later. I was like, no, we should get him on the show. Hang out with Skipping Andrew with me. Get to know him. Because literally, I have to remind myself that it's not just my mom who watches the show. Other people do, you know, they do. You notice we're going old school. Was it your mom that left that comment in the, in this comment section? Only if it was negative. No. Read the one from Dom. Oh, which one? Which one was it? Skipping gets mad pussy. Yeah. No, what? That's horrible, Andrews. Yeah. You know what it was, too. And it was when you guys were talking about your cats. I was, I tried to text it to you because I didn't know. He's got one to break. I don't have the, and I don't know why. But since we've used Riverside, I don't bring up the comments. I don't know. I always say I can't find them. And then you tell me how to see them. And then I forget about it and can't, I don't know how to do it. Just go to the right where it says chat. You know what people click on the things. No, there's a bad button that says chat. At least there is for me. What do you see? I see it. I see it too. So if all three of us are on the screen, you don't have the chat already open on the bottom right hand corner. There's a little chat with a little three. Right now because there's three comments that propagated since I last had it open. Okay. And then I click on Studio Chat. No, that's us. Click on the live stream chat. Yep. There you go. You learn something new every day, right? Yeah. Well, that ball that you just lost. Somebody's true. True. True. Okay. Yeah. All right. Well, do we hop into some listener questions here? Yeah. We just wrap this up. Do we think? It's been five out. It's been three to five though. All right, guys. So a bunch of you had asked for tank tops. So the day has finally come that we've got them. If you're interested in one of our tanks, check them out at the merch store. I'll have links below. Who knows? You might end up meeting somebody else. Listen to the shows too. I've had that happen more than once. Somebody's like, hey, you listen to that podcast. I like those guys too. And before you know it, there's a budding bromance just waiting to happen. So if you want to look for a chat and support the podcast, you guys can do that all at the same time. Just check out the shirts. All right. Cool. Rapid. All right. Rack Pull says, I have a question I think might be an interesting topic. Okay. A lot of top guys and sometimes even coaches give out advice based on where they are now versus what it took them to bring up their physiques to a high level. For example, recommending lower protein or colloquiality intake, less intense training, drug advice, etc. Have you noticed this trend or even caught yourself doing it before? Or do you think it actually is a realization that some of these things were completely unnecessary? Hey, I'll throw it in out the gate that I recognize now. Maybe I didn't need as much as I once thought I did. You know what I mean? You guys ever like, hey, maybe we should take that just to cross the teeth, you know, dot the eyes. But then you always have a guy who's like, hey, you know what? I don't want to run whatever compound, for instance. And you're like, okay, we'll do it without it. And then you learn, guess what he turned out just as good. You know what I mean? I would say yes and no to the question, right? Because like anything in our sport, it all depends, right? But I do think a lot of us, you know, back in the day, we just followed the excess rule, right? Like, yeah, we'll have to eat more. I need to train more. I need to lift more weight. I need to take more drugs. Whatever it might be, right? It was always just more, right? If I just do a little bit more, if I train my arms three days a week, they're going to grow, right? And I think, you know, coaches today bringing up points of like, I think what they're doing is looking back on their career and they're saying, I grew back then probably despite what I did, not necessarily because of what I did, right? Yeah. And they're saying that because they're using the new models with athletes and getting results in faster time, keeping them healthier and just getting better results in general. You know, for instance, let's just talk about diet, right? Back in the day, you had your offseason diet, and then when the scales stopped moving, you added more food. And then the scales stopped moving, you had more food. We didn't check blood sugar. We didn't know what that was. So we had no idea if we were insulin sensitive. We had no idea if we were, if we were partitioning in those nutrients in a decent way. And we probably, it was either like, there was never any pulling back strategically. It was like, you got to a point where you just, yeah, you just got to a point where you couldn't eat anymore. You missed a meal and you felt like, for the rest of the week, like a failure, like you weren't ever going to be able to do anything in bodybuilding because you missed that one meal, right? Whereas now it's like, when an athlete tells me, hey, like, I'm regurgitating my last meals up. I'm having a hard time getting to my next meal let alone this meal. Like, to me, that's a warning sign. Like, why am I going to keep pounding food at you? I'm just making you unhealthy. We're losing insulin sensitivity. You're going to have, you're going to be bloated in the gym, which is going to affect your training. It's like, no, it's time to pull back. Let's, let's make an intelligent decision here. So that's just one example. I'm sure Skip has some as well. Well, I mean, it depends on how far you're going to go back too. I mean, if we go back 30 years, the instruction, at least psychologically, our own brain would be like, you know what, I got to get that food in. And you're scooping it up after it has come out. Not necessarily vomit, but you get what I'm saying. Yeah. I'm like, oh, I got to get that food in. Or like you said, you're screwing everything up. So I think people need to understand too that the three of us have done this for a very long time. So we're not going back five years to when we started. We're not going back seven years. We're going back a long way. So during the time that we've all been training there has been this evolution, not only in training technology as far as equipment, but nutrition as far as supplements, peptides as far as gear. There have been so many huge changes in everything that is included inside bodybuilding that you just, after a lot of those years go by, you just like you said, Scott, or touched on. You're weeding out the things that we think, okay, this probably wasn't as important as we thought it was. And it's easier for us to weed those things out because we have so much time invested in so much experience versus someone who might only have the five years, the seven years, the three years. So you go to Andrew, the 21 year old. I'm sure three years to him is a really long time. He's not doing the same things he was doing at 18 or 17. But if I go back three years, I'm laughing. That's like 30 seconds to this kid, you know? Big difference. I would take it a step further and take those years you're talking about skipping and multiplying times hundreds of people because we're not just talking about ourselves. We're talking about things we tried with people. Absolutely. And it's like, yeah, there's some things that turn out to be trends in the industry or with coaching. You know, you learn something from someone else or you hear about it and you're like, oh, let me try that. But then a lot of the things you do with people just come to you inherently and you try it out and you see results and you so you replicate it more and more and you continue to get reinforcement that these results are, or the plan that changed that you made is a viable plan change for some people in specific instances. So yeah, I think, I mean, how many people do you think we've coached between the three of us? Like, like four, five thousand? Like, oh, I was thinking that'd be in the thousandation. But whatever. I mean, yeah. I mean, is it, I don't know, you know, is it, is it, is it 15,000? Like it's, it's gotta be an astronomical number. Astronomical number. Yeah, it's a lot of experience to have had. And yeah, I just keep going back to thinking that, you know, there was a time that like when I first learned how to coach when I first learned, I should say when I first learned how to diet really is what it comes down to. There was one way to do it. It was written in stone. You had to do it this way and you had to use these foods and like you had to just hold your breath that it was gonna work the first time I did it, you know? And, and then over time though, it like, let's use that as an example. Like, let's, let's say the, you know, the old school six foods that work, which those six foods, they do work. There's no question about it. But then we kind of expanded it over time and then we've realized that there are, there are other things that can work as well. I don't, I don't mean to, to cause any comfort controversy, Dave. If you're listening to this at this moment, usually if something comes up with Dave Pulsanella or the six foods that work, it gets back to him. So he may, he may see this right now. Oh, I didn't get the reference. You know what I'm saying though? Like, then, then over time you recognize like, okay, you know, this, things didn't work this way for this person. They, he didn't, or like the drug stuff, you know, then you, you, you think to yourself, man, I gotta use Halo every time that I compete. It has to be in until the time that you don't use it or you work with a client that doesn't use it. And then you realize like, oh, okay, guess what? It's still worked out or there was another way or that diet didn't work for this guy. So we tried something like there's just, it's, you, you realize that maybe, maybe you didn't need to go as strict with things as you once thought you did. Absolutely. What about food allergies? We weren't dealing with food allergies. Or at least, notice, I mean, we laughed about, I did, we laughed about gluten. Ah, everybody's using the gluten excuse because they were, but at the same time, then you find out accidentally. Oh, maybe there is something to this gluten because I accidentally left it out for five months. And now I've got abdominal cramps when I ate a bunch of bread. Yep. Yeah. So, you know, there's a lot, there's just been so many things that the list is too long to even begin to run it down. So, you know, and I think because we have all that experience, what are we going to talk about? We're going to talk about the things that we've done right before we're going to talk about the things that we have shelved. We need to be asked specifically what those things are because people want to know what, what works well. What have you found that's part of wanting to know what our experience analogies? I will say just that because there was a specific ask about the lower protein. I do think, especially when it comes to competition, lowering your protein over that final week is a game changer for abdominal control, for getting rid of bloated midsections. And for the, I mean, you got to think you're going to be replacing with a lot more carbohydrates, typically at some point during that week. And it's just a, a no brainer to me now. So. Yep. All right. Got another one here. We can maybe rapid fire through this. Hey, guys, I am from Iceland and I live the lifestyle and I love the show. I'm running one ML of test, one ML and P P every other day. Planning to switch to DECA through to 400 milligrams a week. What is the best way to switch? I also want to ask if you can take D ball only on leg days and back days like you would with anadral. Thanks guys. I thought when he said I was part of the, I lived the lifestyle. He was going to mention something about being a swinger because I thought that was the lingo that they use, but the lifestyle. Yeah. I saw a documentary about that and they're like, well, when you're in the lifestyle, you know, I saw a documentary. Listen to him. He's got. Sure. I'm going to get my tree in. Couple upside down. Hey, sure. If we had that going on, I'd be the first to tell you. Okay. We're already just not on air. I tell you on air because it's great advertising for the lifestyle. Yeah. It's huge in bodybuilding. We all know that. It is big in Florida from what I hear. It's actually really good. I came across a Reddit thread. There's a skin as it right. No, there is a massive community down here. And I think it's prevalent in bodybuilding because we're all hyper-angered and hyper-sensualized and we all, we also meet up at shows at particular times. It's a year where rules don't really apply. They do when you're in your 9-5 at home, you know? But to get to this Icelandic gentleman's question, you want to know, can you swap from NPP to Deca? Yeah. How would you get in here? How to transition it? Take the syringe that you had NPP and squirted into the sink and then load up with. I think people are trying to make it to just to come. Just make the switch. Just make the switch. If you want to do like 50-50 for a week, do 50-50 for a week, you know? But yeah, I do that. Yeah, are you going to... You're not going from a long answer to an acetate or a suspension or no ester or anything like that. Yeah. The NPP and the Deca, they're not right next to each other, but they're not, there's not this huge difference or disparity in esters too. So just pick up the Deca and run the Deca. Now the other one about the anodary, I lost that question because I was trying to do it. Can you take deep all on leg and back days like you would like maybe load it on? Absolutely, you can. Oh yeah, absolutely. You can. Scott, you have experience with doing that, right? Oh yeah, yeah. I'm a fan. You call me a fan. In fact, injectable deball was my personal favorite. I like the injectable deball just because it never messed with my digestion. And it's... Yeah, never affected my appetite. And I found that that's something I still could do if I wanted to. Occasionally, if you ran it one, two times a week versus if I ran it every day, man. I tell you like the first week, I'd be like, oh, guys, I'm back on deep. Oh, it's awesome. And then the second week, I'd be like, oh, I had to stop because I couldn't eat. He's like sweating. He's got like acne like a kid all of a sudden. And like, he's blown in. Yeah. Yeah. All right. What do we got here? I'll get to that in the next show. Question for the podcast. Especially following this weekend. Okay. Do you think this weekend's showing of Keon? Do you guys think that growth hormone could have caused or worsened the diastasis due to increased relaxing? I've heard that during pregnancy, relaxing is elevated and it helps the abdomen, the diastasis stretch out. No. I think that just is anatomy. Yeah. I mean, like he's stage lean. So you see the diastasis a lot more prevalent on stage when he's flexing his abs. You know, one thing, he has a really nice vacuum. He does a good job of his vacuum when he's doing his front double and I feel like if the only thing I pose I don't love on him is his when he's hitting his abdominals, actually, you know, I feel like maybe he should just hit a vacuum and then don't do anything like crunch down that's going to push them out even more. I'm doing it like people can see me behind my desk. But for some reason that's how my brain works. But I don't and I know a lot of guys that don't have the best mid sections. They do a quick ab for like, you know, two seconds and then they drop the arm down and kind of turn it into a semi-most muscular shot. He gets laugh and he's like, yep, been using that one for 10 years. Yeah. No, but it's like sometimes it actually just makes your abs look worse. So just stay in the vacuum, I think. And I'm critiquing one of the top three to five best bodybuilders in the world right now. So take that with a huge grain of salt. I'm sure he's tried every angle, every abdominal shot. If we can say he's got a flaw, that's the flaw. Which is how you do it. Yeah. Well, let's say one thing. Did you guys watch the show, the EVL S Prague show? No. Dude, I just saw the pictures. Okay. What did you notice about those pictures? They're terrible. Yeah. Like, okay, it's 2025. We've been complaining about backdrops and lighting what every year for the last like 10 years, including the Olympia, the Arnold like promoters figure it the freak out. Like, come on, you guys. It reminded me. It reminded me. The one I saw it, it just like for people who hadn't seen it described to them, but it looked like. So what's the Star Wars where it's the girl Jedi and she fights against Darth Vader? That last scene when they're in that room and they're taking on like the master boss that's kind of pulling the strings with Darth Vader. It's kind of like a fiction. It's like a, yeah, it's like a, it's like the only last one. I see it's like kind of dark and red like that. It's like a red tinge if I'm not mistaken. And it's like a connoissee what's going on? I think there's a fight scene and it's kind of what I was thinking. What's that? It was the first show that took place in hell. Yes, that's a great. Dane had a great. That's excellent. It's like I'm watching it and I'm like, I think the guys look good. I don't know. I haven't really seen good pictures because it was so dark you couldn't get good detail. And I will say it favored the white guys. Like you saw the detail in Martin that we've never seen before. He looked absolutely amazing. He's the guy to watch, you know, this next year. The black guys, I think they were on stage like, you know what I'm saying? It's like you couldn't see any detail on them and it's not their fault. Like I'm sure Samson brought a much improved look. I'm sure Keon looked a little better filled out the way he wanted to. But the color, these promoters got to figure this out for what they're charging for live streams and for tickets and that kind of thing. It's 2025 guys. Figure it out. All right. Listen, let's wrap this up. We had another Q&A we have to do. And we appreciate everybody tuning in, hanging out with us. Check out BodyBerry.com. Go to teamskip.com. Hit me up at McNeally diets at gmail.com. And of course, check out true nutrition.com. Use our code think supplement source dot c a. And thank you to everybody from Patreon for another episode of Bloods Wet and Gear. We'll see you soon, guys. All right, we're going to still do another. And if you're at Caliente, look out for Andrew. Ha ha ha. It's Caliente. What's Caliente Andrew? Hold on. It's not. I am not part of the lifestyle. OK. I am not. I am not. I'm just massively.

I'm gonna tell you what, John, my goal had always been when you look at the way his sweats fit his legs. I mean, those aren't leggings. Those are just like loose sweatpants. Yeah, they're freaking stretched around his legs. To me, I've always thought that's the coolest look. When you have regular sweats on, but you can stretch them out like they're leggings. And you know you've got to set a wheels on you. What the hell is that, John? What is he doing here? I think he's stretching his shoulders. I think he's got his arms back. But this is, you know, this is kind of how he got hurt because he got hurt doing dumbbell flies. And that's how he tours bicep because he would go till he couldn't go anymore. And then when he would go on the bottom, he would do like, like, partial's, you know, and he was bouncing it. Yeah. And then when he bounced, that's how he tore bicep. Yeah, that makes total sense too. I wonder if he would do things different today knowing what we know now about training, you know? Right. Yeah, you could think he would, right? Because they were all still just inventing stuff back then. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Think Big Body Building Media. I'm Scott McNally and back wish me again, by popular demand is body building historian, natural mister Olympia and the podcast host of body building legends. What's up, Mr. John Hanson? How you doing? What's up, Scott? How was your holidays? Dude, it was great, man. Hey, great to have you back. People loved that last episode. So they were like, you guys, you got to bring John back to do some more. If you're new to our content, then let me encourage you to subscribe and hit the bell because we have servo body building podcasts these week, plus body building reactions, a bunch of shorts. A bunch of stuff to keep you busy through your cardio, your commute, whatever else you're doing. And if you enjoy our content, then do us a favor, leave us a comment. Let's get this thing rolling and see what we've got. Now there's a bunch of music in here. So I know we're gonna have to cut some of those sound out. That is a bad act. Truck to start. I want that. That's a very appropriate truck to have outside of Gold's Gym, big and muscular. Anyway, we're here in Southern California to take a look at the world of body building, especially the world of the Mr. Olympia Hopels, all those body builders who are out to win the most prestigious body building contest in the world. The challenge, the challenges. Okay. That was a little job. Let's see, say a driver for a body building world. Okay, I wondered, he looked familiar right now. He used to be. He used to be. I moved out to California. I moved out in 1978 with 50 bucks on a plane ticket. That's all I had in my name. I live with 25 people across the street from the gym. And I ruined. And every day, and I still would do that. We didn't even want to look at you. I've been here now for a week. Go to the gym. Go. That was just footage from the 84 of the BL Sky. Okay. I noticed on this tape that they used footage from 85 and 84, but I believe it was all filmed in 86, leading up to the Mr. Olympia right here. Okay. Oh, I got turned this down a little bit. This is copywritten music. So how was his 84 look compared to other years? Well, Tom's peak was 81. And that's when he got third place when Franco won. And I thought, I thought he should have won that year. Okay. Going into 82, Tom was the big, big favor, because he was kind of considered the uncrowned Mr. Olympia for 81. And then, unfortunately, Tom tore his bicep about six weeks before the 82 Olympia. Oh, geez. So he decided to do the contest anyways, which was a mistake. And you can see or you can see that discrepancy though. And you could see it and it marked him down. And he plus his condition was a little off. And he didn't look like 81. So he dropped down to sixth. And then in 83 for some reason, he got it repaired after the contest. And then in 83, he decided to sit out 83. And he just, yes, folks. Yes. And he said, I mean, he should have sat out 82 and came back in 83. You know what I mean? They're still, so he had it fixed yet. They're still a huge discrepancy isn't there. Yeah, what he did was he waited too long because when you tear your bicep, you're tearing the tendon that attaches your bicep to the elbow. Yeah. And the longer you wait, the more that tendon goes up your arm. Okay. And when his was fixed, you could see it's still short. So they fixed it. But the bicep still short. And you can see all his might myself than 2000. And I got to fix with them five days. I mean, you're okay. Six. I love the gym. Sitting my office all day long, talking to 10 or 15 different countries and putting tours together and closing deals. And I love it. To me, that's just like the gym. It's, I feel the same way. I could very easily go to the office all day long get the same satisfaction. So I feel that you've got to be an athlete and you've got to be a businessman as well. You've got to be able to juggle those things. And it's not easy. When you turn pro, you turn pro for a reason. Now it's time to make money. Now it's time. That's the money's the most important thing. Of course not. But you've got to be a businessman as well as an athlete. And I think the most people think most Mr. at Mr. Lumpi competitors, thank you, got to win the Olympia to make money. If you think that you do. But then again, even if you win it, which you've seen some of some Mr. Lumpi so don't make any money either. And to me, I happen to like the business function as well. Not, and I also like being an actor on the stage. You're an actor, you're a businessman, you're an athlete. And you're a diplomat. I'm traveling to six countries amongst them, sometimes. It's meeting, checking hands, talking about valuing the way all love. That was interesting because when he, I remember when this video came out, he was like the first one to voice that how it was important to be a businessman. And Tom really looked at it like that. You know, once he had his pro card in 78, he really went out and promoted himself as a businessman. He did a lot of guest posings, a lot of seminars. He wrote books and he was really going after trying to make the money. And he was very popular, especially after 81, when he got the word, man, he was traveling like every weekend in 82. He was going all over the place, all over the world. And he was getting bigger and bigger to, he was freaky. Do you think he did pretty good for himself as a bodybuilder back then overall? Oh yeah, he had to. I mean, I don't know how much money he made, but I think he was probably one of the top money makers, just because his work ethic, he works so hard and traveling so much. Everybody wanted to see those legs, you know? Yeah, every day. And he really looked at it. Every day. We're all that, you know, he really promoted that. And he was really good at seminars too. And seminars were really big back in the 80s. I keep going at Europe and he did seminars over there. Yeah. And back then, there was no YouTube, of course. So you never really got to hear the bodybuilder speak. And you never really got to see him in person. So if they ever came to your town and did a guest posing in a seminar, he was really valuable. Yeah, it was really valuable that you get to learn from them directly, you get to hear them talk directly and tell you what works and what does it, you know? Let's see what he says right here. Who gyms, it's difficult to be on a very strict training regime, but now that's when you turn pro, we turn pro to be a pro. You don't turn pro. If you want to spend your time with a gym, you should stay in an amateur. Ah, ah, ah. There's some music. Here's the part we got to talk over. Dude, he had a sweet car too, man. He always had some cool cars. He looked cars. Yeah. Yeah, it's crazy to still see him today. Did he? Yeah. I still see him around. Like I remember him training Sergio Junior in 2017, when I was out at Los Angeles doing a contest. And I remember going one of my final workouts and I was doing some chrysupp extensions laying on a bench or something with a dumbbell. And my friend, who I was visiting with, she was like, hey, she's like, you see who just walked behind you? It was time plats, right, in the middle of the gym there. Wow. Oh. Yeah, he hasn't stopped. I wish he would do interviews. You know, he doesn't want to do interviews. He wants to get paid from what I understand to do an interview. Yeah, I'm like, yeah. You know, but whatever, I guess to each their own. And he's done plenty of interviews in his day. I guess is the way he probably looks at it. Yeah, he's still so popular because of his passion. He's so like into his passion for the sport and the way he talks. He's so passionate that people just love and they get motivated, just listening to him talk. And his workouts were legendary, especially his leg workouts. Oh, God. Yeah. I forgot, man. I've got a picture of me and you and Tom Plats together. Yeah, at that Olympia, right? Yeah, yeah. You guys were both there for old school muscle. And yeah, yeah, I got a picture with him. I got a picture with you and then I got a picture with the three of us. So that was freaking awesome. You were trying to convince him to do an interview with me. Oh, that's right. That's right. Yeah, because I would love to have had him on my show. But honestly, with how much you know the history of bodybuilding interview with you would have been so much better. So I feel like you're the guy who should have done that, you know? Yeah. Oh, here we go. We got the workout happening now. His technique was so crazy. What was that? Oh, what was that? What was that? So you obviously believed in training the feeling. Well, in terms of to me that there are sets and there's reps and new biceps and there's triceps and there's love and there's hate. And everybody part is an emotion. And that's the way I train. I mean, I'm sort of in the gym. I'm not counting on many times. I'm doing something. I'm expressing myself more than what I can. And it's a very important. It's an emotion that experience for me. I'm very much into feelings. It's more than just to set some reps and numbers. To me, numbers are meaningless. I don't like the only numbers that are really meaningful. The money market numbers and the checking account. Other than numbers like counting. On the amount of my calorie numbers. Oops. Let me turn that sound down there. Here Jerry Lee Lewis coming in. I'm going to tell you what, John. My goal had always been when you look at the way his sweats fit his legs. I mean, those aren't leggings. Those are just like loose sweat pants. Yeah, they're freaking stretched around his legs. To me, I've always thought that's the coolest look. When you have regular sweats on, but you can stretch them out like they're leggings. And you know you've got to set a wheels on you. What the hell is that, John? What is he doing here? I think he's stretching his shoulders. I think he's got his arms back. But this is, you know, this is kind of how he got hurt because he got hurt doing dumbbell flies. And that's how he tors bicep because he would go to he couldn't go anymore. And then when he would go on the bottom, he would do like, like, partials, you know, and he was bouncing it. Yeah. And then when he bounced, that's how he tors bicep. Yeah, that makes total sense too. I wonder if he would do things different today, knowing what we know now about training, you know? Right. Yeah, you could think he would. Because they were all still just inventing stuff back then. Yeah. Well, he definitely knew what he was doing with legs. That's for sure. Because his legs were phenomenal. Hey, why don't you think it took him to catch his upper body up? I think the closest he came was 81. And his legs were bigger than ever in 81. But his balsos upper body was bigger than ever. I remember from 80 to 81. I mean, that last video we reviewed, that was in 1980. That was the comeback. Yeah. And this was, you know, in 81, one year later, it looked like he put like 15 pounds of muscle on his upper body. He was so much bigger. Pull over to 130 there. Yeah. And you see that part two in the beginning when he was stretching. Yeah. He was pretty wild. He was a great, he was very flexible. He would stretch for like an hour and a half before he did legs. One of the reasons for the increase in popularity of bodybuilding over the last few years has been the exposure it's received in Joe Weeders muscle and fitness magazine. Joe not only uses the best bodybuilding photographers in the world, but he's also the gun he used the best commercial photographers as well. Back when Joe had dark hair. The idea, the reason my photographs is so important in our magazine. And why I spend so much money time and effort. He's young and getting a very best photographs. Two reason. The main reason is that one bodybuilder, that's what it's just for. I'm magazine. I feel it's my obligation. My duty to see that this bodybuilder's percentage in the world is absolute best. Bring your headlars and a smile, great. That hair and all the others. I always try to find the most creative and more imagined of a photographer's possible. Aren't you back at my self or take off time to work with these models and make sure that one of the put themselves and opposed that opposed to be perfect. Because the only way to the world can relate to them is through the photographs. Back then, yeah. That's all they had for the graphs in the magazine. Brace of Helen. Joe was famous for being in every photo shoot. I said, move the people around. Really, even like the 60s when you just had muscle builder magazine. And it was just bodybuilder. He would be at every photo shoot. He would move the guys around and make them make sure that the pose was perfect. Like he is here. You know, it's crazy to think is that these women were absolutely jacked at that time. You know what I mean? Like this is like this is what a big female looks like. It's super hyper muscular female looks like this at that time. Yeah, this was female bodybuilding. Ladies. Right. Was it great? I believe that's a high-up Reagan with the fist party. Yeah. Oh, okay. Yeah, those are great cameras, man. There were so much now too because there's been a comeback in using film. But when I was in art school, you'd get one for a guy at least a thousand. Used, maybe a thousand. Wow, okay. Another going for two or three. Hmm. I believe this was in World's Gym. And this is, I think this was taken right after the Arnold Classic started. Arnold and Jim Moore were promoting the role in Columbus. And Rich Kasparry won that in 86. So I think this is what you can write after that because he's still a really good change in bodybuilding. And being another name like John Grimmick, when you hear bodybuilding legends, Frank Zane Arnold Schwarzenegger, I want you to say in the 80s and 90s it was Rich Kasparry. And we do say that. I've proven to people now that I can be the best, you know, pro coming up. I want to prove that I can be the best bodybuilder ever. And now I have seven months of train for the biggest contest. I'm going to that gym and I bust my butt and I go to win. And that's it. It's trying to find a place for little voices in my head when I do train. One sometimes says, oh, why are you going to the gym? Then there's this other voice that overpowers him. Come on, what are you doing? You know, you come up to the gym. You got a train. You got a win, you got to get bigger. You got to get bigger. You got to get bigger arms. Yeah, worlds gym. So they didn't have any music in worlds gym, right? Right, right. And it was kind of a small gym, but they got no supposed to be great. Because Joe Gold would personally make all of his equipment. All of that. You could see those pretty small, right? I mean, it wasn't that big. Yeah. Yeah, no, no music, no slamming weights, right? It's ready to be like quiet basically in there. You're kicking out if you're slamming the weights. Who had the story of bringing a boom box in? Look, remember, the phone was going on back there with Tony Person. Oh, no, kidding. Do you remember that story? Somebody brought music in there. Somebody brought a boom box in? No, no. I can't remember who did that. And of course, they got kicked out real quick. Sean Raid told me a story. He went in there with John Brown when Sean Raid was just a teenager. I think this was before he even started competing. Yeah. And he walked in and it was like, he couldn't believe. Like Rachel McLeish was there, Matt Mended Hall. Like all these people were there and he was freaking out. Yeah. So back then, the bench is, they had the stands were real close together. So he goes over there and he puts a plate on one side of the bar and the whole thing tips over and hits the ground. And Eddie Giuliani who was the manager, runs over to him and he goes, get your ass out here. Don't slam the weights in here. Oh, my God. He said, John said he left and he never came back until he was a pro. No kidding. Lee Priest liked to train there too. He, we were talking about that before we did a review of video at him. That he liked to train it. Worlds because he felt like gold was just like a zoo all the time. He wanted to go away from that. He contrasts. Yeah. Golds had the music blasting all the time and it was real wild atmosphere. And it's not. World was more fun. Which would you have trained that back then? In my 20s, I probably would have went to Golds. You know, I'm such an Arnold fan. I probably would have went to the world stream just to see if I could see Arnold. Yeah. Because he would always come in there and work out. So when was Rich at his best? This, that show that he just did, I think was his absolute peak. The one he took pro world in 86. He got third, I got second in the Olympia that year. So that was the first of his three Olympia runner ups because he got three Olympia runner ups from 86 to 88. Yeah. But that whole world man, he looked phenomenal. He was like 215 skin was like saran wrap veins all over. The muscles are so full and thick. And he was only 22. Yeah. He looks so young here right now. Yeah. I mean, there was this. He reached this physical peak at 22. That's wild. It's to eat. And you're excited to maintain my weight. I know how many calories to eat to lose five pounds, to lose two pounds. I've done that. I've almost, it's almost come to a science now. I know my body that much. He was the first one that I remember to really count everything. And I remember when I read that, I started doing that, too. You know, yeah, weighing all's food, counting up his macros. Nobody was doing that back then. Yeah, he, he paid attention to food sources. Like I remember him talking about, if he was going to use pasta, he would use a whole wheat pasta versus just like a white stir-cheap pasta. Right about the gluten and stuff. Yeah. And here's the next one. X-Watson and leg extensions. Okay. That's a move right there. How about that? Yeah. You're like super setting your tongue me before you're, you were super setting leg press and squats the other week. Yeah. Yeah. I'll do that occasionally. That's brutal. That's a brutal workout, man. Yeah. Oh, yeah. He's still in good shape there. Oh, yeah. He's still striated. This must have been right after the pro world, I think he must have went to California to do some photo shoots. That's what I'm guessing. Yeah. Yeah, he said what he was doing a little bit ago earlier on. Man, those shorts couldn't be shorter. I'm telling you, and that stringer couldn't be more stringy. You know what I'm saying? It's, it's hardly assured at this point. Right. When shorts were shorts. Yeah. Yeah. So Joe made all this equipment. Yeah, Joe gold made a lot of his equipment. There he's doing lunges, which back then, not many guys did lunges like that was a girl exercise. That's a really just to experience that's why my records, I keep records of every contest. I've kept in records from the universe, night of the champions, Olympia and the pro world. And with those records, I just keep on improving. I keep on knowing more and more and I keep on knowing more and I keep on knowing my body to a team. But you always can learn more. That's another thing. I can never say I know everything about nutrition. But I feel that I'm just a little bit ahead of the other guys in this sport. He was. I just feel that I have something that a lot of people don't have. Like before, even entered the pro world, I already said that I want to. Yeah. That makes it a hockey, but it's just that I'm so confident in myself that I can say that. And it just looks like I'm just going through everything, you know, through the time lapse. But I've already won the show. And that's the way I feel now in competing in the Olympia. I have such a positive outlook that I would win. That when I do go on stage, the judges can see this or a, you know, around me, that I do really want to win. And I have this, you know, I just look, there's the winner because of that positive look that I do have. You know, I'm a fighter when I go on stage, I can face. It's only had a little bit wider structure. You know what I mean? Yeah. That's for Haney beat him in the structure. Because he really beat Haney in the legs. And he was a harder. And he had a great body, just just couldn't beat the shoulder to waste differential of Haney, you know, yeah, this is from 85. This is his first Olympia winning. You third. Peel Olympian, 1985. I came in third place. And known as Everdundat, go from the amateur ranks in one year, except for Lee Haney and come in at top three in the Mr. Olympia. Thank you. Absolutely. I think that's the approach. Yeah. Coming up. And they were the world championships, the pro world championships in 86 run by Arnold and March and the Los Angeles Grand Prix. I wanted to prove everybody that I can win those pro shows. And I knew the main competition could be a note show that would probably be my Christian. You know, he is a great competitor. Well, I went into the pro world and the Los Angeles Grand Prix. And I got a clean sweep all first place. The first time that a pro and two shows got perfect scores is two shows. The only one that's done at the four was Boyer Pro, but he only won one pro show, perfect score. So I did prove that, you know, that I could win pro shows. You know, and I did prove the people that I'm capable of winning Mr. Olympia. The main competition now for me is Leigh Haney. Yeah. And that structure is, so his, his, Rich's legs were better. I could, I could see that. Yeah. There were thicker and more strided and plus he had really good hamstrings and calves to any of the glutes. Yeah. He doesn't have the same conditioning as Rich, you know? Yeah. But his structure was so much better. He was taller. Yeah. He was so much bigger and taller than everybody. I remember back then at the Olympia, when the Olympia started, they would have all the guys come out in a line. Yeah. And they would say, here's your Mr. Olympia competitors. And that's how they would start the pre-judging. They would all just come out in a line. So if there was like 15 guys and the Olympia that year, they would all just stand there and then crowd to go crazy. No, everybody would look. And they could see Leigh Haney standing there and you go, well, he's going to win. It was that, it was that obvious. You know, he was just so much taller and wider. With a small waist than everybody. Yeah. You had Leigh on your showed-in, you? Yeah, several times. Yeah. He's a great interview. This is Albert Beckles. I'll leave it outside Waitpit at the world's gym. They had this whole outdoor training area. And so guys would go out into the sun and train, which was really cool. That would be cool. Looks like the sound is cut out here in the video anyway, but so we can't hear him talk. Now, Beckles got second and 85. So he was the runner-up to your before at the Olympia. And he won the night of the Champions in 85 as well. He beat Kaspari in the night of the Champions. So he had a great year in 85. That was probably his best year as a pro. I love his technique there on that. Yeah. I'll vote in close. It's a lot what I try to do nowadays. Yeah, crazy arms. His biceps were amazing. Yeah. Yeah. Some of the craziest arms ever in bodybuilding, I think. Yeah. I remember VJ was always talking about Beckles in his arms. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What happened to him? He had kind of short biceps, but when he flexed it, it peaked like unbelievable. Yeah. Yeah. What happened to Unburied Beckles? He's still alive. I believe he's in his, there's always been a debate about his age. Oh, that's right. That's right. Yeah. I think people think he's eight years older than he is, but I think he's like, I think he was correct age was, I think he was born in 37 or 38. Okay. So he's up there now then. So that makes him like 80 something. Lade 80s. Yeah. There was a lot of talk around the gym here that he was so great that he just go wrong with me if you'd be another Arnold Schwarzenegger. And think like that makes me strong. Yes, my, you know, I should as well. And if that's the way everybody in the gym part, well, then I'm going to surprise him. Contest the number six this evening. Our senior citizen. He has a year's old, a former Mr. England, a former Mr. University of New York, 1884, World of Japan, a big man's born. What an old way. Albert, let's go. I turned the music back down. It was dancing his way up there. So what did, what was Beckles missing to Beatley, Haney? I think he just wasn't big enough. He was very hard, very in great condition. You can see like here when he does his rear double bicep. He's just shredded, you know, he's got that real hard muscularity. A lot of back. Very thin skin, yeah. But a little light on the calves. He had kind of high calves. He just used the next to Haney. He just wasn't big enough. You know, Haney was so much bigger than everybody. Yeah. Back when he used to judge calves, huh? Yeah. I think he was fourth this year at the 84 Olympia. Okay. People loved him because he kind of created, I mean, Beckles is around for a long time. He started competing in the 60s. Yeah. When he got older, he kind of had like a resurgence in his career. And he came in really ripped. And he started winning contest again. Because he had a law like in the late 70s, where he wasn't doing that well. Yeah. And then in the 80s he came back and he rode the 80s and he started coming in really ripped. And he was winning contest again. And then he was older. He was like in his late 40s or early 50s. And he would come out and he would dance like a disco routine. And people loved it. You know, they go, oh, look at this older guy who's shredded. He's dead. You know. And you know what, too. I think that speaks to a guy that didn't need to use a lot of enhancements to get where he got. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Because the guys that have to push it really hard to get to that level. They're the guys. They're not going to be there 15 years later. They're not going to make a comeback a decade down the road. You know, they're going to do what they're going to do. Yeah. And he had a long career. He started off. I mean Arnold's first Mr. Universe win in 1967. Albert won the medium class and Arnold won the talk class. So that's how far he goes back. He goes back to like the mid early 60s when he was competing in Barbados. And then he moved to England. He was living in England. And then he continued all the way into the late 80s early 90s. So that was a 30 year career. Yeah. Those biceps are freaking nuts, too. I bet he still has those arms today. Yeah. A little smaller way to be. But look at that. Yeah. Jeez. The peaks. Seriously has to say here. And even better than I expected. I hope to. I will second very close second. So according to these kind of improvements that I'm fortunate that I'm made. I don't see why or how I can lose. The beginning is a great champion and he's good. But I still think I can be that. So there was a time when they were hesitant. I think to have African Americans as like the guy on the magazine from what I remember. Like early early on. Yeah. So it's interesting that something definitely shifted when you have Lee Haney and Albert Backels are so undeniable. You know what I'm saying that it's like. But what are you going to do now? Not you don't have a choice, right? But that was just the contest. But you're right, Scott. I mean, I remember like we either was criticized a lot for not putting Lee Haney on the cover more. Oh, really? It was like me and Mr. Olympia every year. And you would put like, going through slear camp or not. Who goes over those in a roundback then? But you put like Matt Mennon Holly put Bob Paris. Yeah. Just hurry on the cover. Though I got it's a good way to get him down the cover. You know, it's interesting. Even though he was Mr. Olympia. Yeah. Man, I would love to go to Santa Monica in Venice. In Venice. Like if we get a time machine. Yeah. I would love that to. Southern California has become the mecca of bodybuilding. There's more to go. Aside from the beautiful weather and the good food. He was right out in the street. His back to the two most famous people in the world are located here. Now, they're very different gyms. One of them is Joe Gold's World Gym. Now Joe Gold also started. Gold's Gym. That was back in 1965. But he sold it in 1970 and some other people who developed it into one of the greatest gyms in the world. But Joe Gold got back in the gym business and he started Joe Gold's World Gym. So now you've got Joe Gold's World Gym and you've got Gold's Gym down the street to go with different gyms. You got it? We got it. That's good. Yes. It's pretty good. Just the way you should. I'm giving you a little view of some good light shot. You're good. You're good. You're good. You're good. You're good. You're good. You're good. You're good. You're good. You're good. You're good. That's it. He's going. Yeah. I don't know about it. Good half of it. He's not strong. Yeah. So that's Joe Gold. Yeah. Yeah. That's Joe Gold. Bodybuilding started right here in Santa Monica. Probably Bick County had the first gym in his gym started in 1939. It was located in Second Street. I think there he had balled into a multiple multiple gym. All through California, all through United States. But real popularity of bodybuilding stayed right here in Santa Monica right on the beach. You got your own weightlifting pit down there. That was great in the old days. And it moved from there indoors. I think it wanted to be cheating more. Yeah. That's why he created Gold's gym was because they kicked him out of the beach. Really? And that he started his own gym in 1965. So he started Gold's gym the first year. The Olympia started in 65. Okay. So but they had the they still have the weight pit down there. Was it taken out for a timer? Yeah. They had a bigger one. I believe it was in in might have been Santa Monica pure. Okay. And I think they would train underneath this pure. Like wow. And then there was accusations from the city that there was a list of sex acts going on under there or something. So they ended up closing the whole thing down. Okay. Weird. And I never heard about that before under the pier. Yeah. Ha. That's wild. And hey, knowing bodybuilding, I wouldn't be surprised if there was a list of stuff going on under the pier. I think they're bodies. They're not interested in disco music. They're not interested in playing around. The people are not interested. I get rid of a movement. They only get the serious people here on the gym. He kicked on a lot of people didn't he? Yeah. Those old young owners always did that. Steve Mahaelic did it in New York. Did he? George Turner did it in St. Louis. Yeah. They didn't put up with a shit. Was there gym? If they didn't like you, they just kick you out. Yeah. I like that. I like losing his leg later on. He had an amputated. I think it was from diabetes. Oh. So you need to feel chair later on in his life. No kidding. I didn't know that. Yeah. The world gym is attempted to remain in old fashion, hardcore gym as much as possible. There's a great honor for the guidance that's only people can come to the left and come to the consumer. It comes. There's a different philosophy. There was honor in the sport training and commercial success. They moved it to where different, certain location is. And they started ranchizing it. So they didn't even know the end of millions of dollars. Okay. Over 200 gyms worldwide. There are licensed old gyms. And even though we went commercial to some extent with span goals gym, we realized that goals gym couldn't, everyone couldn't come to goals gym. So we decided to bring goals gym to everyone we could. I remember that look. The the lea tired with the song and all that. I remember that look. Yeah. This age and this era, my dad and mom trained. They trained hard. I used to go to the gym with them, but I was too young to lift. And they had like a kids area. But then they also, they had like one room off the side where the kids could be. But I'd come out to the floor and just basically sit away from everything in the corner, sit up against the wall while everybody else was lifting. Yeah. I get hit a bunch of big friends back then. Guys that were in the ball lifting guys that weren't a bodybuilding. They all had that haircut with the mullet in the back wearing the tracks. You know, right. Right. He miles kind of bodybuilding turned into a tremendous asset for us. So we're really pleased and proud of this guy. I kind of know what will happen. What's the reason? What's the reason? Because he back in the day was huge. I don't know if you ever saw pictures of him, but he competed in the Mr. America back in the early 70s. Okay. Was massive. And he was also known for taking a lot of steroids. Oh, really? Guys to experiment and really push it as far as the steroids. Alright, it's going. He would openly talk about it too. No kidding. Yes. Both turns. And the women's aspect of the sport. It's becoming less and less desirable for the average Joe on the street to want to have anything to do with the sport. It seems as a aesthetics and beauty of physique are not really taken into consideration. It amazes me because the sport that went so badly to grow and expand seems to hold itself back. So from my own standpoint, I'm trying to project to not only the bodybuilding public, but to the general public, the outlook that you can be sort of normal. You can be fashion-competitive. When did he come out as being gay? You're a little too useless. Two years after this. Okay. Yeah. Beautiful physique and maximizing your own potential. They cut the music out here for us. We don't have to worry about it. Yeah, so this was his first Olympian 84 here. Okay. And him coming out as gay. That did cause him some issues. Didn't it with the organization and stuff? Yeah, big thing back then. Yeah. Yeah. Because he was very good-looking guy. Women love this guy. I mean, he's okay. And he was very classy. You could see the way he was dressed. He wouldn't dress like an average bodybuilder. He would just very nice. Like a just like a GQ model. Okay. And I mean, I didn't know that he was gay. So I was shocked. I mean, but I guess if you were in the California area, it was kind of known that he was. Okay. But Joe Weater would never say it. Interesting. Huh. I know he lives on Vancouver Island with his partner now. Oh, do they? Okay. I've seen pictures of him on social media. He's really skinny now, right? Yeah. Yeah. He stopped lived in for sure. Very much against antibiotics. I'm not saying that I've never used them. But I'm very much against them. But to have the feeling that I must use them in order to compete. To be forced to do that is extremely frustrating and disillusioning. Yeah. The gem, even. I'm very aware of the negative connotations of the grunting, greased up flexing, massive vein bodybuilder. And I don't want to be seen in that light whatsoever. I don't want to be identified with that at all. So therefore I usually train covered up where I was what certain in gym and shorts and train as uncomfortable. But it's not important for my ego to be Googled and admired constantly every day and to have my physique perused each time I come into the gym. I'm there to do something for myself. And to use the time as economically as possible. And I dress for the utility of that purpose. How? When do you last say he's a loser? He's the one who's the second. He's the one who's the second. He's the one who's the second. He's the word perused. Yeah, not often, not often. Now, see if this wasn't the 80s and he had the purple shorts on, I would have called it. But because it's the 80s, everybody had purple shorts. You never would have guessed. You know? But for sure. But I would be certain that he was a world's gym guy. He didn't probably want to have anything to do with all the nonsense at golds. Absolutely. You're right. You're a universal being the American National Chancellor. You're gold really like them too. It's like my life. Okay, see why man. He's took what he's doing seriously. He's a respectable human being. He's not causing trouble. He's probably Joe with like all of his clientele to be like him. Right. It's crazy to see those little tiny platforms on the list. Yes. And that really hit your Quadzords at the party. And just last week, I figured that I've turned down and missed out on over a million dollars worth of work in the film industry and the fashion industry. FI training for the Mr. Olympia because it would have been work that was far too intense to accompany intense training for a show. So I don't know if that's my dilemma right now. Should I continue to pursue being competitive? Should I put it on the back burner for a while after all, on 25 years old, we have competitors who are 50 years old. Yeah. Or should I consider myself having gone through that phase of being competitive bodybuilder and now Bob Paris moves on to pursue other projects. How much longer did he compete? Frankly, he has a lot of interest in this. He stopped. He had a bodybuilding. I think in 86. Oh, hold that thought. Hold that thought. And then you can just start back up after he, after this, picks back up. He wanted to pursue an acting career like being a real actor, like the theater, not just in movies. Oh, yeah. So he stepped away for only a year or two, I think. And then I think he came back in late 87 and then in 88, he looked fantastic. He got third place at the night of the Champions, year fill hill one. Okay. He looked awesome. But Paris was always like touted as like the next Mr. Olympia because he had a Steve Reeves like physique. He was tall, he was like six feet tall, I believe. And he looked more like Steve Reeves than Frank Zandett, you know. He just, you know, he really good legs. And they just kept after him, you know, you got to get bigger, you got to get more rip. You got to get bigger. And he wouldn't do it. But I have an idea of my mind what I want to look like. And that's it. And I'm not going to go past that. And I think you could see that with the, he was talking about steroids there. Like I don't want to push it too much, you know. And so he never got freaky and he wasn't able to challenge Haney. And he would go into shows a lot of times like a little smaller or too smooth. And he, he had the genetics, but he just didn't really push it. He wasn't as hungry as it was. Yeah. But I think it was because he had this idea and his mind of what he should look like, you know, yeah, he had an aesthetic in his brain. And it's that he's stuck to. Yeah, which I kind of given credit for because he stuck to it and he didn't go to the whim of the judges, you know, he just kind of did what he wanted to do. So I given credit, he had the courage to do that. But it did kind of hurt his career. And then once he came out and 88, he said he was gay, I think I mean, he's still competed after that for a couple more years, but they weren't looking at him then as a Mr. Olympia hopeful after that, you know. Yeah, now who we looking at here? Thank you. I believe this girl's name is Carla Green. She was from Vancouver. Hey, Tory, do you know Carla Green from Victoria, Canada or Vancouver? No, just wondering. Victoria knows all the females. Yeah, she just brought me a cherry Pepsi zero. These are good. I don't think she did very well in competitions, but she was competing. OK, I always enjoy watching this footage of her stretching on the beach. I really know what I should do. Yeah, so it's hard to imagine. She was considered to be like very muscular at that time. Yeah, isn't it? I mean, yeah, I think that must go for a bikini girl now. No, she really isn't. You know, I mean, she's definitely fit. She's got muscle, but I know a lot of women that have that much muscle. You know what I mean? Yeah, like in they're not even competing. Right. Oh, yeah, for sure. Yeah, 40 years ago is totally different. Oh, man, I tear my shoulder turned to do that. That does not look safe. Particularly for the reasons that I want to be part of what's involved. And I want to know what's going on and be nothing Vancouver. I was I didn't have that. That's a good thing that we're available. That knows everybody in this sport. That's a very superior to what I've been exposed to out there. They're more professional. Bodybuilders down here. And their knowledge is accessible to me as well. That's your favorite name was Call of Green or Carlet Temple. I don't know. That's all through the whole temple. I'm wondering if this is before people were doing fake boobs because just wondering. They can't bite a bat. Yeah, in the 80s. I don't think it was that. She has some good genetics and we'll say that. She's like good genetics. Yeah, they're very beautiful girl. Okay, Carlet Green. If so, it looks like she might have dated Lou for a rig. Well, that's Carlet. That's his wife. I'm sorry. So it's not Carlet Green. It's Carlet Temple. Okay, Carlet Temple. I'm going to turn this down. Case this is some sort of monetized music. There's a bunch of it in here. See, I'm looking her. Carlet Temple was Rick something I believe. I can't remember his last name. Oh, yeah. Okay, so she did get into really good shape. Once she got, so she's definitely off season here. But once she got into shape, you could definitely see a lot more definition in her shoulders, her arms, good quads on her. She's had some muscle on her for sure. Did she ever win a show? Or just play style. Uh, let's see. I'm not sure. Now, she said, well, she was at the Olympia. Okay. Um, she placed fifth and still holds the highest title of any Canadian female body builder in the Olympia. This was from muscle insider. I'm not sure if that's been broken since. Well, you're just you take fifth. Uh, let's see. Inthusiast in 82, she competed after just 10 weeks of training. And won her first body building competition. She went on to win the BC provincial championships in western Canada. Uh, concurrently, that was 83. A few months later, let's see, in 84, she competed in the world's pro-invitational fifth place. It was invited to the coveted missile Olympia where she placed fifth. So it would have been 84. After that, years of seminar tours, public appearances, TV shows, movies and print advertising. She went on to become a personal trainer and she shared her secrets with many clients. Carla Temple. Yeah. That other girl they were just showing that big girl. That was teagun cleave, I believe. Okay. Again, her. Her. Yeah. Kind of crazy, you know, wild hair. And yeah. She was big, you know, and she trained really heavy and hard. And there was a famous incident where she was at a contest. Uh, and she went into the women's bathroom. And when she came out, this cop, like the skinny security guard cop was there. And he grabbed her and he put her in a headlock because he thought she was a guy going into the women's bathroom. Oh, dude. Yeah. And then there's a picture in flecks where Rick Valente is trying to talk to the cop. Like, let her go, that's a girl. That's a girl. No kidding. Yeah. I don't know what the hell she's doing there. But. Yeah, she's she was like kind of crazy kind of our Orthodox. And I'm like people. Let's see if we turn this up and find out. We can't turn it up. But people were still, they look like girl and go, they were figuring things out back then. You know what I mean? Like they they didn't have, uh, I mean, it's because of them and the people who did things that were weird and unorthodox that we discovered a lot of new stuff. And we discovered what not to do, too. Yeah, you know what I mean? Yeah. Wilder. Oh, yeah, she's geared up. Look at this. Yeah, like that. What the hell is that? I mean, this watch you get. Yeah. Are they sure? I didn't use this. Yeah. Do you go backwards? Oh my god, I wish we could play this sound here because she's definitely got a great monologue happening throughout this. Yeah. But at this point, women were getting really involved with the sport, too. It wasn't just a guy's thing anymore. Yeah, this is 86. So yeah, I mean women's the misalimpio started in the 1980. So it was getting really popular. And then it was just kind of, this was start, this was where the debate was starting like, how big did the women get, you know, like, okay, I'm sorry, you wanted, I think in 84. Yeah, and she was all an athletic looking and pretty muscular. More so than like Rachel McGlish was. But then toward the end of the 80s, like 89, when Corey won her last one, that's when they were starting to get really muscular. Yeah. Oh, then the 90s just things went crazy. Yeah, yeah, then when Linda came in, they got really got much much bigger. And the sport of bodybuilding, you really have to be available to the people who are going to promote you through the sport. And that would be the magazine publishers or editors, writers, anybody in the television or screen business, it's all happening down here. And you can really hear a lot of things through the network. And that could be through the, your fellow competitors, the gems, or whoever. You're going to have access to that. And it's available to you. But you have to be available to them. I'm like now, or you do everything online, you're something happening. Now, this is Frank Richards. Oh, Frank was another bodybuilder from the 60s. He was around during Arnold time. And he was a very big guy from England. And he had a lot of control. And then he was working construction. And he fell off of being. Oh, he fell like 10 feet or 12 feet. And he really messed himself up. He broke his wrist. And, you know, he broke all these different bones of the movies. And he had to take off a long time. I almost killed himself. Jim, and he came back in the 80s. So he came back in 85, I believe, at the night of the Champions. And then he was in the 85 Olympias. Well, okay. So he did pretty good. When he came back, he wasn't as big. He had more of a muscular, more rip physique. Yeah. Where back in the day, he was kind of like an Arnold type where he was really big and massive. Okay. So Z kind of changes he got older. But I think he competed for about maybe five years in the 80s and then he retired. All right. Let's see what he has to say here. Well, 24 hours a day of your life. I've played the English game, Real B. I was also a sprint to a national level. And I liked the weight smaller than the other sports. I don't say they always say, make the weights rougher when those count on the right. Sounds like that. But really, as to me, it's the King of Sports, what a belly. It also is a sport that gives you a long, long last month. It was a good bett. I made come back after 15 years. Our battles as a medical, my built pills, medical, my. Incares, the longest, but I was able to do it. They come back. Simply because you are able to do it. You can train in, in bodybuilding because long as you are mentally capable. Mentally physical, because as long as you're a mentally capable, the physical side will always take care of itself. This is really true. Isn't it? I can not teach you that you have. Yeah. And as long as they weren't built on site, I had you back then too. So they were just kind of filled the muscle. I think you can put it in until you 60. Yeah, everybody did those lateral raises, freaking through the sky. You don't even mean like way, you can way overhead. Right. And they would bring them in front of their thighs too. I've seen Franco do lateral raises that were like, way up here. You know what I mean? It's like, what are you doing Franco? But they made it work. You know, look at that back in the day when you had those, those camel cigarette ads on a big billboard. That's a lot. What does she want to be doing? Yeah, she's going to blink as on really 10 weeks by the way. Is this the blink as I'm don't say anything around you? Man, yeah, I'm telling you, John, instead of doing reaction videos, we need like a time machine where we can just go back in time. And we can like talk to all these people and stuff. Just hang out there's the weight pin on goal. So they still had the weight there. Yeah. That's changed a lot since then. Oh yeah, yeah, look out. Look how Venice beats like so different too. It really does. When's the last time you were out at Gold's in Venice? Just a couple years ago. Okay. I think two years ago, yeah. Okay, so this has been after the changes post, you know, shutdowns and all of that. I heard it's a lot different now than it used to be. Yeah, it was still pretty crowded. But you know, yeah, all the COVID stuff was over with, you know. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I heard they got all sorts of new equipment and stuff. Yeah, yeah, and a lot of new equipment and stuff. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I think there's a camera. Yeah, the camera with it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The big old lens on it, which we can probably take pictures just as good now on our cell phones, you know. Yeah, he might have just been visiting California. Maybe it was after that contest that could sparry one that pro world because he was in that too. Maybe he went out with the person photo shoots and maybe he was just, because I think he lived in England. I don't think he moved to California. Yeah, oh man, I wish you could see those prices. Yeah, you know what I mean? Remember when like he'd get a soda 25 cents, 50 cents and like that. Hey, while we're there in our time machine, why don't we buy some properties right here? I was just thinking that thing. Yeah, I'm going to say that. Yeah, yeah. People started to make the biggest appearances. So even when I never paid on stage for 50 years, I was going to take a phone with my other name. Yeah, it was hard. Especially for more mature bodybuilder, too. He looks great. Right, he was a good poser, too. Like on the first five. Well, where you place the Olympic in 85? I don't think he made top 10. What was his name again? Frank Richard. Okay. I'll let him out. Frank Richard. Richard, he won his class in the Navabab back in like 1970. Okay, this teen years later. Let's see here, Frank Richard's post-contest because he's in Eden some cake now. Yeah, I'd love to go back then and see. I'm seeing pictures of him. I mean, he really did have a great physique. Yeah, it's too bad he got in that accident because they were saying he was going to be the next Arnold, you know? He came in 10th at the 85. Okay, so we did a big hit. Yeah. Hey, but it goes to show man. You never know when body building is going to, you know, competitive body building is going to get taken away from you. So it's like, you know, you can complain during your prep and stuff, but honestly, I just, I'm grateful. You know what I mean, John, like you're still dieting down, getting into great shape. It's like, yeah, I have gratitude every time I've gotten into a really good shape now. Because you never know if this is going to be the last time we're going to be able to do it. I don't think, yeah, I know a lot of guys, older guys that can't train at all now, you know, because they got nerve damage or things. Yeah, and you're still blasted, man. You're still hitting the weights hard. Yeah, I would like to ask. Look at this is a K-backster. She was one of the early body builders. She had a pretty muscular physique. I know, I have a totally one of my body subs. I'm carrying your gold. Much better now since they're working on it. Looks like they're doing some ART. Yeah, it's like the skulls were in the first of sports therapy. I'm only getting better. I hurt my back before I got released and I'm up. And I remember coming in here and I said, please, Gary, give me some help right away. That guy's sure could be more unbuttoned. He has like two buttons down at the bottom. I can stand up straight. Actually, I'm more injury free now than I've been a long time. It's crazy, Scott, because, you know, I remember training back in the 80s. And if I had injuries, there was really, unless you found it, I were a crafter. There was no word of go. You know, they didn't have all these clinics. This is Charles Glass here. Oh, yeah. Today's a go. And came in in that time. He's experienced in pain in the upper back. But we're doing now is going in for economic adhesion movement through that muscle, in the proper direction, with the proper pressure. Yeah, you wouldn't be able to find a practitioner like this back done easily. Not too easily, right? Very rare. I got it. Dude, even in like the mid to like really 2000s, it was hard to find somebody for me. Yeah. I try to, when I first started getting therapies back in, I couldn't squat 135 without pain. And since I'm coming here getting therapies, well, no wonder you're freaking shoulder hurt. It's dude. You're doing it. What are you doing? It really loosened the back up and strengthened the back in the sense because it allowed me to do more of the back movements that I couldn't do to help. So, I mean, I really want to surprise him on our wedding day. I'll just cut all these out. Nobody will know. Yeah. Then I'm getting that one missed his bleeding. Turn that down. We got some good old classic hip hop happening here. Oh, no wonder we do because we got my Christian showing up here. Have you had Mike on your show? Yes. How is he to interview? He was good. He very interesting life. He was in the gangs and stuff when he was younger. Oh, yeah. What do you say about that? Not a lot. You know, but he just said he had a pretty tough beginning. You know, he came from Oregon and then he moved to LA. Okay. But I think he was seeing the gangs in LA. I think he was. I can't remember. It was a few years ago that I interviewed him. Okay. That's a look right there. The stranger and the do-reg. Yeah. Man, he looked so good too. If I'm not mistaken, I think that that's stringer is going to pop. Like it's going to break. Thank you. It's pretty dangerous. It's told nobody to thread right now. So Mike won the Nationals in 84 and Gospari was in that show too. Gospari won the late heavyweight. But Mike was the guy, you know, and everybody thought it was going to be the guy to challenge Haney. So when they turned pro, Gospari all sudden pop to head of Mike. Because Gospari was like 20 pounds heavier when he turned pro. Okay. So Mike and Gospari had a big rivalry. And just like at that pro world in 86, it was Mike and Gospari won in two. And Gospari beat them both times because there was a show in LA too. And he beat them there. And then he always beat them and he'll impiate too. So it was kind of surprising to Mike because he thought he was going to have a great pro career and it was going to be between him and Haney, you know, for the contest. Yeah, training there with Lewis Freetis, Fritos from Brazil. Oh, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm number seeing him on the pump for gold pumping for golds. Move right. Right. Yeah. He had great legs. Yeah, really good physique. Smaller guy overall. Smaller structure too. But he, but he was decently heavy. I wanted to say right. Yeah, he was a heavyweight. Here we go. Thank you, breaks out here. Oh, you were right. You weren't joking. You literally broke it. That's okay. He just made a timer. Yeah, lots of acetygothes. Damn it. Do X to four or five reps and he wouldn't do it. You know. And I'm that type of person. I need that extra four or five reps. I need somebody to yell at me. I need somebody to push me. Yeah, he had a killer physique. He really did. Great. Older's arms. He's arm-to-folded. He's made that. He was made for a straight-her. You know what I mean? Those chest-to-res are. That's the loo-ly. Tell me, how many of them are there? They're personality too. Oh, yeah. That. To find a good training partner. I like how he's pulled her hat. And thank God I got one. It's time to waste free days from Brazil. He's up a coming bodybuilder. He placed 8th or 9th in the universe this year. And he's a big kid. There's a med school. They're good looking. Travelling animals is like your name. Pretty good. We have a special magic together. You know, I mean, he's pulling higher. That is me. And just really quick to get him. They're happy with me. Get a real high voice too. He did. He did. Great. He's set the back right here. It looks like he dies his hair here. A good training partner. I tell you what it is. Big dudes. You have to have somebody that both of them. You can listen to. You know, like when they say five more reps. He's in the world. Just anybody can't tell me five more reps. You know, it takes a certain type of voice, a certain type of person. For me to listen to. That's why I can't just train with anybody. You know, I have to see something. And I have to see that he will do five more. I tell him, you know, and he is able to do it. That's one thing to magic. That's the between me. He wants to just the bad. It's me. We're both young, hungry lions. I like the smack talk between him and Lee Haney. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm like. I'm going to go. Yeah. Yeah. Did you beat him? Yeah. Man, he made some noise too. He wasn't. He was like a pop to get in, man. Lost his stringer again. Yeah, he would never fit in at World's Gym. No, God, no. Yeah, he's a gold guy by all means. Yeah. Yeah, he got mad. So I guess part of being like training partners. You have to keep tying his uh... Yeah. You have to tie his clothes back together when they rip apart when he gets a pump. It's part of the job. You always wore those dueregs too. Yeah, yeah, he always did it, me. Yeah. Did he have, what was his clothing line? Was he, did he do crazy wear? I think Strideham had crazy wear. Crazy wear? Platinum. Platinum. Platinum. Platinum. Okay. Yeah. Did you have friends with a little more relaxed? Do you know? And it's a little smaller. I need a big gym with big guys around me. He's talking about going to the gym. Yeah. He's having a big gym too, man. Look at all that equipment in there. Yeah. And I think it was all one room back then. So they said the atmosphere was crazy. Does everybody just jammed in this one room with the music blast? And you know? Yeah. The bay doors are open, count, hot California day. Man, that would be, that would be awesome to go see that back then. Little loose training style there. Yeah, yeah. That girl's checked for the time. Yeah. Everybody's getting after it though. You see that? Yeah, everybody trained hard. Because it all rubbed off on everybody. You know? Yeah. They said when they put good music on, the play the intensity would just go up. Oh, I bet, man. I bet. Yeah, I think people go to the gym for a lot of different reasons today. And I think some people, man, they don't even, they look down on training hard. Like they're like, oh, I'm not one of those people. I just, you know, you just keep your cool kind of attitudes. Like, no, man, get in there and give it. You know, right? If everything you can, well, the two busy on their phones, you got to check the phone to me. Yeah, this would have been an awesome freaking hero. Yeah. So they have figured out this? First time in 1990, so it was right around this time. But I mean, okay, everybody was there, you know, all the big dude in there. It was just such a great atmosphere. I bet, how big were you in 1990? Well, I was competing. I was big. Yeah. Yeah. So were you out there just a visit or are you doing a show? Yes, there's some. Is it? Yeah, friend of mine was out there. All right. Visiting the sister so me and him went out there. Nice. But we went to goals every day. I bet you, dude, man. Who do you remember seeing in 1990 that, like, you, that, you really remember? I remember, Roland Kickingjur was doing in clients with like Hunter Pound Dumbells. But he was massive. He was huge. And I don't know him. Oh, yeah, he was the guy that was like, kind of look like Arnold. But he said he was like the next Arnold. Okay. He was a pro for a while, but he never did anything. He didn't get some experience. And then he got into movies and stuff. Okay. I want to win, you know, I want to show the other competitors and the judges and the people and audience that I am the best. That's a very, very, very, very, very, very great. Oh, yeah. And that didn't much bigger than he is now league, esparate, beckles, all of the top five, all of the top 10. I am the only competitor that can really put more muscle on his frame, which is not the most taller. And bigger than the other competitors, you know, you know, you better. So what I have to do is I have to keep on putting more muscle on, which I do every year. I put six, eight pounds of muscle on the other. Yeah. Yeah. Still overall crazy physique. This is just a matter of time for me. And I think this always really got to help me. And he was never at it. He's a possible bet you're underestimating some of the other people. And after all, Mitch Sparie is very good. Albert Berkill is very good. Yeah. Don't you have to keep them in mind as well as course. I don't. I don't. Lehan is a man to be no question about that. But of course, I see Albert Berkill's every school I have in the gym, get me either, you know. So I know, I'm just all competitors. You know, I just, I go for number one. Yeah. That's true. It's first. You beat everybody. Yeah, it's right. Exactly. Listen, good luck in the Olympia. Thank you, Bill. Okay. We'll take it. He was kind of one of those guys that, uh, Mr. O 85 question mark. He was one of those guys here on the racquet. Yeah, I think it's an 85. Yeah. I did. Get the road to the Mr. Olympia. So we don't get to actually see the Olympia. Now, this is all just leading up to it. Yeah, I think they filmed this probably in the spring, you know. I'm just like it was right after that. Oh, okay. But I think this was the first video they did like this because that other one you guys saw was the, was before 88. Yeah, oh yeah, yeah. Yeah. And there's the, there we are on stage now. Lehanie does it again. I think this was 84, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Featuring and order of appearance. Time plants, which is, I mean, all these people, man, were freaking, you know, all of them were amazing guys back then. Yep, Carla Temple. Yeah. And Teagan Clive. I've known that name. She was something else. I was going to lower you green. She must have been the other girl working out. And Rich Martin, Ellie, that was the guy that was working out with Carla. Okay. Yeah, this is freaking awesome, man. This is, this is cool. Plus like I said, there's nobody better to watch this with than you because John Hanson, you're, you're literally like the best body building historian that I know. You knew just about every single one of these people and you're some sort of factoid about at least each one. How many times do you think you've seen this movie? I've probably seen at least 30 times. Yeah. Ha ha ha ha. I bet. I mean, I knew exactly when Mike's thing was going to rip. That's what I was thinking, man. So the thing is is that for some people, this might be their first time watching this. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. So we encourage you guys going back in watching the whole thing again, you know, without us talking over it. We'll have to find something else. Maybe you guys can comment. What do you guys want to hear us react to and review and watch with you next? People loved the last ones. Hopefully they get as much out of this one, John. Yeah. That was great doing with your Scott. I love doing these. Me too, man. This is a blast. Hey, if people want to reach out to you for coaching anything like that, what's the best way to reach out? John Hanson Fitness is my website. So okay. John Hanson Fitness.com. And of course, go to the Bodybuilding Legends podcast. A lot of these guys that you saw in this video, you could literally hear John get to interview them. So you've got to, you've got a huge archive, man, of a lot of the things. Yeah, my website for that is BodybuildingLegendShow.com. Okay. That's the website for the Bodybuilding Legends podcast. And if you go to that website and click on podcasts, you'll see all the podcasts I've done over the last six and a half years. Okay, they're listed on the website even. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. See the ones with like Albert Backels and Lee Haney and Rich Kasparry. I got to interview Chris Dickerson before he passed away. I had some great interviews with Boyer Co. Yeah. Yeah, a lot of older guys to some of them who have unfortunately passed away since then. So I even interviewed Winston Roberts who was a judge at the 81 Olympia and I got to ask him how he judged the 81 Olympia. Yeah, and Winston passed away only a couple months after I interviewed him. So that was okay. I was glad I got to talk to him. That is cool. And at the end of the day, man, like this is how we record the history is the stuff we're doing. You know, us talking about this. You doing your interviews. This is important stuff in my opinion. I do. Yeah. You know, we can't really understand where we are unless we understand where we came from, you know, and the history of bodybuilding is rich and it's freaking awesome. So this has been a blast, man. Of course, check out all of our stuff. By the way, John, you're also on iTunes and all of that. So if they don't want to, if they want to go straight to the podcast app, they can find bodybuilding legend. I'm just going to modify an Apple iTunes. So yeah, you can get the podcast each week on there. We've got the end of the year coming up now. So we've got our shows with Jerry Brainham that I do every year. We go back. We don't talk about the year that just passed. We go back 50 years since we're at history show. We go back 50 years, 40 years, 30 years and talk about like 93, 83 and 73 and what happened in the year. Wow. So that's cool, man. That's freaking awesome. So check out that. And of course, check out our great sponsors, trinutrition.com, user code, think. People have been asking about merch. So we've got merch now. I'll have the link for that below. And shirts are like 30 bucks, basically. We've got, we've got like the athletic fit, we've got loose fit. There's a bunch of different color options. So when you click on each shirt, you can see the drop down menu. So I picked the red one, but we have this in a bunch of different colors. And the white logo, we've got the it's just bodybuilding shirt, Christmas cab and shirt for the drug and stuff podcast. And all of that. And of course, thank you to everybody who's helping to support the programming on Patreon. You guys are freaking awesome. And you've got a YouTube, too, John, right? It's a bodybuilding legend. Yeah, I'm under time. Oh, it's under John Hansen. And some of your shows you've done, you actually have like whole videos that you've put together of old footage and pictures to go with what you're talking to. I tried to do that with all of them. Yeah, especially if I've done the video interviews, I tried to put it up on YouTube, but I edit them and you'll understand this because you do a lot of editing. I put all the pictures in there of the contests they're talking about. So it takes a while. So I'm a little behind on that, but I'm getting them up like every week. Cool. Well, you, I'm sure that everybody can go back then and look at the archive. You know, because you've put a bunch of them out that way. And yeah, man, I know how much work that takes. It's a lot. That's a lot. So anyways, we appreciate you guys tuning in. And like I said, comment below, let us know what you want to hear us to review. Next, it'll be a blast. Yeah, I'm out. All right, John, let you get it going. I know you got your workout to do next. All right. All right, thanks, Scott. Great seeing you, buddy. You too, man. You too.

Is there anyone you think is being, who would you say is being overhyped? Overhyped. Well, maybe I don't know if he's overhyped, but like I'm thinking Samsung maybe at this point because he's the Mr. Olympia and I feel like he brought that conditioning last year just good enough to win and the party was off and Eric was also pretty badly off. And Samsung brought that conditioning good enough only that one time. That Mr. Olympia and he's usually like a 80% and that was maybe 90%. He was never really shredded. So, I wouldn't bet on him doing the Mr. Olympia if I'm not sure he's going to be able to be conditioned. He has the best body I would say, but you know, conditioning is a huge factor. Let's say Samsung. Oh, that's a statement. Who's most, who's most overrated? The current champion. Just like straight, that's straight for the neck. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building. I'm Big Ron Parlo and of course Dusty Han Shah and the producer Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and bring them to bow. And of course, I am mutant.com. Go to I am mutant.com. Get your ice will surge. Get your all in and everyone should get on the gear. Coats Dusty or Big Ron, whichever one of us you feel the most sorry for. I always win. I always win. Dusty wins all the time. I'm afraid to say. So it's a great to have a guest on the show today. We got even body building. He's got a great channel. He does a great job at break and stuff down. I know a lot of you people are already watching his breakdowns because we are. What does he not good at it? We are not the people. We're not about to do today. For proper content break down, we get sidetracked. We do the top. We do third place and then we forget second and then we talk about the winner and then we forget to talk about the other divisions. And but if you want body building breakdowns, even body building is the man. Welcome to the show. Thank you. Thank you man. Hey guys, I just wanted to say like, I'm listening to you doing this instrument. I've been listening to this. I heard this so many times because like I said, I'm a huge fan of your show. I rewatched many episodes during my podcast and like it feels like I'm watching a podcast. It doesn't feel like I'm filming a video. Well, that's good. Let's do this. I'm going to go. Wanted to be easy. So we're just going to softball you a bunch of bullshit for a while. And you just have fun. Lobbing it in. Lobbing it in. So let's just start with like I said, you're you're you're good at having an opinion and a take on all these guys, their physique. I think quite often we sort of, I don't know what do we do. We sort of like everybody. Yeah. We say we do a little bit of that, but you're you're like, I think this guy's going to be to sky. This you know what I mean, you're very good at that. What's your breakdown? Obviously, we're coming into the Olympia now. How do you feel about how this show's going to go? Well, first of all, I got to say like it's it's much easier for me to be brutally honest and to have opinions because I never see these guys in person. I'm not a dirty guy. But I'm not going to text you. What the hell was that? Yeah. Yeah. And a lot of them are watching what they're saying. Yeah. But like not a lot of them will actually tell me that they seen something. So like I've been to the US or something like that. You know, so I can say whatever I want him. I find no somebody personally. I take it easy. I'm a meaner if I know them. So it's much easier for me to have those opinions. But yes, far as the Mr. Olympia. Honestly, like I know it's not super realistic, but I have a Nick Walker waiting actually this year. Nice. Okay. What tells you that? What that's a legit. That's a legit opinion to have. So why did you got have you looking at Nick? Well, look, I mean, Samsung is the founding champ. He's supposed to be the favorite, but you know, these days, it's not like the way it used to be back in the day. Like we had those long reigns of, you know, one, Mr. Olympia. And you have to do not keep down to defeat him for the last six, seven years. It's been like every year, different Mr. Olympia. So that whole thing doesn't exist anymore. And, you know, he Samsung lost to Derek at the Arnold Classic. So Derek is like the favorite because you're on a good issue last show. And in my opinion, and like in the opinion of many others, pretty much everybody, Nick beats, you know, Derek at the Pittsburgh Road. I think Tyler and Annie also agree with that. Like everybody, pretty much some of the judges, the judges show. Like in half of them, like a little bit more than half. So like, you know, officially in my opinion, Nick has the best physique. It's all about how good his control, his midsection control is. You know, he doesn't have to do like a deep vacuum. Just to control it good during the transitions and everything. He has so much muscle man like he has the best, back double vice of probably best back last, but now as well. Maybe not the biggest lads, but like those poses are crazy. So, you know, he has the most muscle. He brings the conditioning every single time. He's really good like his, you know, great energy on stage, charisma and all that. He has a lot of fans as well. I don't think that can hurt. So, you know, in my opinion, I think you beat both Samsung and Derek. And if Hadi shows up, you actually guessed the US and he brings the same condition. He brought to the 24 Arnold Classic. Now I have Hadi, but that's a big gift. So, what's the story with him? Because I haven't heard like where they at the details on him, Travelling. Well, I mean, with the whole situation in the world right now, I mean, it's probably going to be very difficult. And he also posted a bunch of stories, you know, like he was opinionated. Okay. Actress one. Back, back, there wasn't a post. And I think I don't what he saw, but he never got the visa before. So, I don't think he's going to get a detour this year, but as far as Hadi, I don't know, man. It's going to be probably difficult. Okay. Right. Man. Yeah. I like how you, you were, you talk about Nick winning poses, because like you said, like you mentioned the back, Latsbred. He doesn't have the best back, Latsbred. But when you look at the pose, you've got, you know, like I'm a big fan of when you look at a backlatsbred, and the triceps look crazy. Yeah. You know, like when the, when the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the crazy sweep on the tries from the back. And then the hamstrings, you, you, you start, you know, like because with the backlatsbred, I was looking at Derek's back. And I was like, well, Derek's back. I think is better. But when you look at the full pose, now you start to go shit, Nick, Nick could be winning this pose. And I think that's something a lot of people don't do. They don't look at poses, you know, with a way that, like that's kind of an old school mentality to me is like, there's, you know, seven poses, plus the quarter turns. How many of them do you win? Yeah. You know, that's how I kind of break it down in my head. That's how I think. So is that how you look at bodybuilding shows too? Or, you mean there's a bit of nuance and shape and structure and all that. But you just kind of break it down in mandatory. Well, I would say, yeah, unless it's very close, then they're probably looking at the other stuff, like transitions and, you know, overall presentation posing. But, you know, if somebody wins like five out of eight poses, I think they're going to probably win. And, you know, yeah, like you said, Nick, with those freaking crazy hamstrings, and then the glutes and the bicep peaks in the back double bicep, and like the delts and everything, it's just insane, I mean. So yeah, a lot of great poses. I think you can win, yeah. Yeah. Were you surprised? I mean, everyone knows that Derek has got like a top five rear double of all time. When they called the rear double and Pittsburgh, and you went, oh. Wait a minute. Derek's not landscaping this, and he may not be winning it. Did that surprise you at first? Because I was like, oh, oh, wait. Because I just, you know, as soon as they call a redouble, like, well, there's Derek's pose, and then they both hit it and I was like, Uh-oh, now I got to, I have like, pause the screen and decide who I like better. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. I felt the same way. I was like, he sneaks back though, vice of literally better than Derek's. And I think food was commentating that show or I don't know if I was, it was, it was him who was commentating. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Somebody said, I like his back though, vice. Yeah. It was food and anything. And they said, like, the back though, vice of his better on Nick, and I was like, yeah, I agree. I see that as well. I mean, I can see that Derek has bigger lats. And maybe, maybe traps, I don't know. Like the back itself is better, but the whole pose with everything that was there. Yeah. When you look at Nick Walker's back double, if you cover his arms and shoulders, and then you take your hands off his arms and shoulders, the, it's like having the arms and shoulders in the picture makes the back. Like, it's just the package, you know what I mean? It makes it so crazy. And when you look at Derek's arms and shoulders from the back, like you said, his back is better to me. But the other stuff was like, oh, this is wild. Because, you know, I don't think many people were expecting that. So your math basically at the end of the day is Derek beat Samson, and then Nick beat Derek. So I can't nick win the O. Yeah. Fair enough. Yeah. Who do you see then? Let's assume how he gets in, which means you have hotty and or Nick, first and second, then who's going third and fourth? I mean, how do you like I said, if he brings what he brought to the Arnold Classic 24, he does the same package. That's probably like the best bodybuilder seems to feel he there in my opinion. That look was just crazy, but, you know, that's a big gift. Again, if he shows up, if he brings that kind of conditioning and also like, last year I noticed, Harry was losing some of that fullness thickness in like his hamstrings and his legs, especially from the side and from the back. And I don't know if you'll be able to bring that back. So I think Harry is not going to be that good. I think it's going to be between Derek and Nick and I have Nick winning. Derek second, I would say in third, I'll have Samson actually over Harry and I would say, I would say, Harry, fourth and then probably Martin and fifth. Mark. Okay. Okay. Who do you think is the most underrated guy doing the Olympia so far? This year. Hmm. Underrated. In open bodybuilder. Yes. Yes. That's a tough question. You think Nick Zellet is going to be top 10? I was thinking about him, but I mean, maybe top 10, maybe like 10 because he has a whole bunch of really good guys. Like he said, those five guys and then Andrew Jack and then the Brando Currie, if you compete so much. And then I don't know. William Bonack. Tony O'Glert and who beat everyone forgets about Bonack. I don't know how it these days. How? Yeah. I have a follow up question for you. If magically Keyon was allowed to do both divisions, where to see land. That's a good one. So probably fifth, I can see him fighting against Martin and beating Martin. I would say top five. Fifth. Yeah. Love it. I think Keyon blows my minds. I just love you see him just like the old days, you know. Bring out to see who the ultimate best is. Yeah. So it sounds like you're very impressed by Nick at this point. And he's done a lot this season. Is there anybody else in that, you know, top 10 group that you have? That you have been like maybe surprised by really impressed by. Well, it's definitely Nick for me like by far. I mean, when I saw him at a piece of berg like, I mean, I know he was going to be improved. But not that much. Yeah. And you know, he was just he blowing mine. I mean, that's the guy. I don't want to say anybody else. He has to be Nick. Okay. And I also like Nick's personality. I gotta say maybe that's influencing me as well. I mean, I like that he's so honest. Like he's real. When you watch him on podcasts, I think. I don't know him personally, but it feels like he's just being himself. He's not, you know, you know, role or anything like that. Like he's always being himself. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. We just had him on the show and he's just the easiest guy to talk to. Is there anyone you think is being, who, who would you say is being overhyped? Overhyped. Hmm. Well, maybe I don't know if he's overhyped. But like I'm thinking Samsung maybe at this point because, you know, he's the Mr. Olympia. And I feel like he brought that conditioning last year just good enough to win. And the party was off. And Eric was also pretty badly off. Yeah. And Samsung like brought that conditioning good enough. Only that one time. That Mr. Olympia. And he's usually like a 80% and that was maybe 90%. He was never, you know, really, really shredded. So, you know, like I wouldn't bet on him to win the Mr. Olympia. If I, if I'm not sure he's going to be able to be conditioned. So, I mean, he has the best body I would say, but, you know, conditioning because a huge factor. Yeah. Let's say Samsung. Right. Wow. That's a statement. Who's most, who's most overrated? The current champion. Just like straight. That's straight for the neck. Do you think the judging's been consistent in regards to, like, you know, conditioning and what they're going for and the men's open in general? Well, yeah. I mean, I, I'm seeing some like maybe mistakes that are being made, but overall I think it's pretty good. I mean, I wouldn't complain. I mean, I think with Nick versus Derek, I mean, yeah, like I would say it is consistent, you know, based on the way they're judging, you would expect direct to win. But I think that was a mistake. And I don't know what happened with Nate and the actual losing and placing a third in that show. Like Bruno Santas was in second and I thought Nate was probably like even better than Exila to be honest. And he plays the third. I mean, I don't know what was that. You know, he was complaining on his social media about the judges. So maybe they punished him for it. I don't know. That was weird. But generally, yeah, I like the way the judging is these days, especially like last couple of years. We titled the breaking down and everything and explaining it seems pretty transparent. And I would say it is consistent here. Usually I think Tyler doing the breakdowns on the judging and being transparent with that stuff has been one of the most radical changes to Pro bodybuilding that I've seen in. I mean, the whole time I've been involved in bodybuilding for over 30 years has never been anyone doing that. You know, the old days you just get a score sheet put up online on the third bouncing around on the forums, pictures of score sheets. Yeah. And that was it. And no one would ever explain anything and then Tyler started doing these huge breakdowns for everyone. And I also find like on the amateur side of things, it clears a lot of stuff up for them because, you know, everyone wants to be a pronoun when you hear Tyler talking about what that why they made certain close call decisions or why one guy is a fan favorite was fourth. Yep. And I think it because a lot of people, he could have these things in their head about what they think the judges want. And when Tyler gets in there and started doing that stuff, I've just like, it made everyone else's life easier in a way. Like all the coaches and trainers are like, oh, good. I'm feel like try to explain this to my clients all the time now. I thought the big thing too was like, if you guys remember when he came forth and he was doing a side by side comparison of. I think it was Andrew and Hunter and pointed out that as good as Andrew side tricep looks. It's not a side tricep. So Hunter wins by default. And they're like, listen, he's saying, look, I know that that looks awesome. But it's called a side tricep. So you need to face the side and as a coach. When I heard that, I was like, I forwarded it to half of my clients because they want to emulate these looks. That some of these guys are doing and I'm like, listen, I don't disagree. I'm really unwrotein. That's exactly what I was just going to say. That's a great shot. But it's not what they asked for. You know, I mean, do that side try and then pivot every time. We came again. I started out most muscular. Yeah. And then I said, you know, that's just everyone side trials. Like, what the hell happened to the side try here? You know, the key word is first side. Yeah. Yeah. What's what's your second favorite division? Mine. Yes. We don't care about us. Second classic physical course. Yeah. What do you think of the classic physique division? The direction it's heading in. How they judge that. Obviously, we just saw just said goodbye to Bumsted last year. And we're looking at, I mean, this Olympia is going to be very exciting because it's like, kind of, you know, like the classic physique divisions, 1998. There's no champ. Yeah. Right. Everyone who thinks they can be the champ. Everyone's talking about who's going to be the champ. And it makes me wonder, like, we could see a 1998 here where, you know, no one has talked about Ronnie, right? And then the morning of the show, all of a sudden, everyone's like, the fuck. And I would love to see obviously we all love Mike. We had Mike Summerfield, Mike the badass. We had him on the show. And you know, everyone's talking about him being the heir to the throne. But I just wonder, who else do you see that might, you know, come in and do, do what they got to do? What do you think? Yeah. Well, like you said, I mean, like I said before, there wasn't there is no more legacies, but there is a huge legacy with his palms. But in his case, he was just really that good. Like that much better than anybody else. And I'm looking at his physique and I'm thinking like, what is so special about it? But it's just perfectly, basically there are no flaws. Like it's crazy. And so of course, nobody could beat him now. It's a lot different. And you know, they have this criteria, at least we thought they had a criteria that, like, the classic, it should be a lot about those aesthetics and shape. And now we're seeing that it's not really the most important thing. It's of course a part of it, but like it's judged kind of similar to body building. Like this guy is have the weight limit, but they also need to be as big as possible as condition as possible. And of course, to have nice aesthetics. But like Arnold Classic was a good example of that. We had a Logan Franklin who was in my opinion, like I don't love that look. That was one of my favorite looks in classical physics that I ever saw. Like super, super condition dry details everywhere. And like really good shape, really good small ways, good everything, just, you know, really good flow. But Mike was just bigger. And he was a lot bigger. And like I think Logan was like maybe two pounds shy of his weight cap. But he wasn't struggling to make the weight. You know, Mike was, he was, I don't know, to increase his stuff, just make the weight. So of course, like he's a lot bigger. And yeah, he beat him bigger because of that. And like who do I see potentially like maybe challenging Mike? I mean, it can be maybe Ramon Dino, but I don't know about that. I would like to see Logan, you know, winning it, but he needs to be bigger. How much muscle can he actually put between Arnold Classic and Mr. Rolling Pen not a lot. So I think most likely it's going to be Mike who's winning it. But yeah, I personally like Logan's physique probably more. You know, first in my heart, I wasn't well. It was also really condition, more condition than Logan probably. He doesn't have the same shape like Logan. He doesn't have like the quads and everything. So Logan has perfect shape. I mean, as good as we have with all Chris Bums, that he just needs to be a little bit bigger. He can maybe grow like five pounds. And maybe he can actually push Mike and win the Mr. Rolling Pen. How about how about parents, where do you see parents fitting into all this? You know, before he is this season, and he took some time off and like in the off season, I thought he put on a whole bunch of size. I thought he was going to be like as big as Mike, but when he died at down in the Garland stage, you know, it wasn't that big of a size difference. Yeah, he was improved, but he wasn't like massive the way Mike is. But I'm asking guy. Yeah. So I don't see him beating Mike or winning the Mr. Rolling Pen. No. Okay. It seems to come down to like there's no better situation than being one of those. Guys like Bumsted was where you look way heavier than you are. You know that that that that that trait of looking heavier than you are with the small bones and stuff. And we see guys like you said some guys are they're almost at their weight cap. And then another guy who's at his weight cap looks way bigger because he's stuffed into the class. And and it's another both 202 or whatever, but no the one guy is too 12 he's fake 202, you know, that whole thing. And some guys just have that look all the time. Yeah. And it's like probably the biggest guy we obviously aside from just your skeleton that you're handed. It's like, you know, classic has such a genetic dependency upon that factor for being able to be a limpia competitive. Because you know how how many pounds away from his cap is Mike. I think he's like right at it based based on the pictures he's 40 over. Yeah, but in real life. Yeah. He has to starve down to get there right? Is that that's true right? I think that he had member bones are made out of the same stuff as your bicycle. So they're very strong but very light. Yeah. Yeah. Like when I look at his updates, I can't. Fathom that he can make weight. I mean, he looks enormous. And then he makes weight and a lot of guys and you know this, when they have to squeeze down to make their way. It's like direct lunch for when he kept coming down to two to two. It's so flat. He lost everything. Yeah. Mike doesn't. He makes weight and he looks just as blown out full and I'm like, how? Yeah. There's a lot of factors going on. What type of response do you get from the, you know, I mean, you're giving critique. How many people hate you? Yeah. Like you get messages. Do you hear from any of these guys that are like, hey, thanks for the advice to do the upset. They like what you said about them. Like what are some, what are some incidents that you've had? Well, you know, like I said, I don't know a lot of them personally. Like I talked to some of them. But I'm trying to actually be as neutral as possible. I can have my opinions that I would, you know, really pissing off somebody. But if something happens, it's usually they just block me. I'm Instagram. Or if they're happy, they they they comment and they they say something and a positive in the comments of YouTube section. But how many people are blocked? Yeah. Yes. Two people left. Yeah. Kiyom blocked me. But he's actually watching my videos now and he's commenting. So I probably forgot that he blocked me. He didn't like one video. Well, we couldn't just grab a video. He was probably on a channel or something like that. I was watching that. I'll remind him to unblock you when he talks to him. Yeah. Well, what's one year? What, what, what, what video that you did went to craziest? Got the most views. Well, actually, it's one of my first videos actually. When I started like six years ago and it's like a one minute long video of early wind, clur, cramping up on the Arnold Classic stage. Right. And my voice sounds so strange like I was a kid back then. And yeah, it's got like I think over like two million views. Yeah. And it's still up on your channel. I got to go back and do it. Yeah. Yeah. It's still up dunkless. I want to hear what you sound like as a kid. So how did you how did you get into all this? I mean, curious. I don't know your backstory at all. And I'm sure some of your viewers would like to know it too. Like how did bodybuilding become your thing? Yeah. I mean, and I was spoke about it in any podcast around one of my channel as well. I mean, how did became I think? I don't know. Like when I was a kid, I used to draw a lot. When I was drawing like super heroes and stuff. And I was bad at sports. Like it all sports. Like I wasn't able to do a pushup. And I went with my friends like in a park and we train. I mean, they train. I tried to do a pushup. I couldn't do single one. So I went back home and I was doing those pushups on my knees. And like after six months or so, I learned how to do proper pushups. And started doing pullups and all that. And eventually got into the gym. And I saw I think it was a muscular development magazine from 2011. I think Jay Kattler was on the cover. And actually, no, it was from 2008. And the extra Jackson was on the cover. But Jay Kattler was in the, in the, in the, in the, in the, in the, in the, in the, in the, one of the pages, when I opened it. But I liked Jay Kattler's music more actually. And when I saw that like, you know, I kind of liked it. And I started following, what are you feeling through YouTube? I was actually like, I don't even remember the Hodge Twins. Yes. And then through them, we Marco. And we, Marco was my inspiration to start the channel actually. Okay. Yeah. He stopped, I loved his videos and he stopped filming at one point. And we were left with an extract and power. And honestly, I always found, I mean, I'll be brutally honest. I always found the super boring. I mean, he never competed. I don't think he was ever like super passionate about bodybuilding. Maybe when he was a kid, but like, he, you know, he doesn't understand. Why can't he read like he doesn't really understand bodybuilding that much. And you know, I was watching him because he didn't have who else to watch. And I was like bodybuilding world needs somebody who understands bodybuilding better, who is more passionate about about his like, we Marco used to be and who is willing to put out content every single day and so on. And so I tried. And like after a couple of months, we started going pretty well. I was surprised then started learning money and, you know, eventually, you know, got to this. What were you doing? What were you doing for a living while you were setting up the channel? Like, what did you use to do? Oh, man. Like, 12th. When I first started, I was actually I was doing, there is this thing we do in Serbia, like we do English lessons. To, yeah, with Japanese, Chinese people. So it's like, it's very cheap, you know, if you want an American to actually teach you how to speak English with you to pay a lot more, but this is like a cheap version of that. And so we, I mean, we get paid also very little, but for Serbia that was good enough for me back then. And while I was actually doing the lessons, there is this option, free talk. And when we talk about anything, and I was talking about bodybuilding and I would see like myself getting passionate about it. And people who don't care about bodybuilding with finding interesting because I was so passionate. And I was like, if I can talk here in English and these people find this interesting, maybe somebody who is a fan of the sport we like it as well. So I started doing this on the side and yeah, I was doing that. And I was also doing some other things, you know, in the meantime, like I was trying to figure it out. It was tough at that time. I didn't have a lot of money, but yeah. Thankfully, I found this huge opening and it's great now. What's some of the lessons you learned along the way running your channel? Well, of course, don't click on any strange links or any theme things. Learn that one recently. Yeah, because I was hacked and I was down for a month and now I'm back, thankfully, but that's one thing. If you are a creator, just be careful, let you click on. If you are a lot of your computer, you're a counter, your computer. So what happened? What happened? Because in the last year channel, this said, catch everyone up. You lost your channel and you just got it back. Yeah, we throw a couple of hours to the story. Yeah, it's crazy. I mean, what happened? So I decided to start filming my face for the first time on this channel. I decided to make things a little bit bigger about this equipment. I actually moved another apartment and like, you know, have a second half of the app. I moved the room to actually create a studio and all that. And the first day I moved in, I get this email somebody from Germany's trying to log into your account. It's not you and I was like, no, it's not me. And then it said, your phone number was changed. Another phone number was added to your account. This and that and like I was out. And I was like, is this real life? It's really happening right now. I guess when I was setting up my equipment to film the videos, I probably downloaded something I should have. And that's how the virus got in and they hacked me and this is something they do all the time. To a lot of YouTubers like there are some channels with like, I don't know, millions of subscribers. And they get in, they play this crypto scam fake AI video hoping for people to click on the link to scam them. And YouTube immediately figured out what was happening and they shut down the channel. And eventually like they got me my account back and YouTube was down because it, you know, broke down broke some rules. And yeah, usually it gets fixed like in a week or so, but it took them four weeks in my case. That was like this past month was horrible, man. I was just literally every day we can go out checking the emails all day long, ask and check the P.T. When, why is this taking so long? Watching all the YouTube videos and everything to see how it usually goes. But yeah, thankfully it's over finally today. Yeah, we got, we lost our, it's got lost the whole channel at one point. Yeah, I remember that. Yeah, that was terrible, man. And, you know, I was telling you before the show too that I'll get notifications from YouTube to this day. And sometimes I don't know why my heart will, like, I don't know, like, I'm not expecting it. And I'll see like a YouTube notification in my heart will drop because I'm waiting for it to say like, unfortunately you are broken a rule and your channel is no longer going to be on, like, because that's the message I remember reading, man. Like, I still remember seeing that and being like, no, this isn't possible, you know? Yeah. It was very possible. So, yeah, man. I, I, I, I, I hope that things pick back up quickly for you for us. It took a little while. It, it took some time of like rebuilding that consistency and getting things rolling, but, but you do stuff like basically, I mean, how many videos are you putting out per week now? Well, I'm trying to post every day, but actually a couple of days ago, I started a new channel, a backup channel. Yeah, I saw that. And I had to say, I'm out of views like on my main one immediately. I saw that, you don't, here's my thought, man. And this is advice that was given to me from Dave Tate. He said multiple streams. Don't put all your eggs in one basket. You know, we have the audio channel is completely separate. We have completely separate entity from this. So, when we did lose the video, we still had, you know, a good amount of views because this channel was initially just an audio podcast. So, we've always had, you know, a really solid audio following, and then from here, we, you know, have a second channel as well. So, I have that set up. I have a rumble set up. So, like, if this were, you know, got for bid to go down on YouTube, we still do have a lot of different options. And we can continue growing. I think that was probably the biggest reminder was when our channel went down, was definitely have some sort of diversity. Maybe you turn it in, like, we have our other channel. It's our live channel now. Maybe you do just shorts on that channel and just keep it growing. Like, you know what I mean, short clips, things like that. I bet you that you could continue doing, obviously it's more work, right? But, you know, I think it's worth it. Yeah, my sense. I mean, maybe I'm going to start vlogging a little bit or something like that. Okay. I don't know. Yeah. Yeah. So, you said you're in Serbia, right? Where exactly are you? Well, you wouldn't know about a city. I said anyways. Craig Wilets. Craig Wilets. Craig Wilets. How did it say? Oh, okay. I don't give it. The taxi driver could get me there if I said that. Yeah. Probably the twice as long of a pad like, right? Right. What's the bodybuilding situation there? Well, I mean, it's a whole situation in Serbia. It's shit, basically. It's always bodybuilding. And it's a, I don't know, bodybuilding actually. I would say it's surprisingly good considering the whole situation in the country. Like, we have a pretty pretty good community. I would say, I mean, like, there is this thing. I don't know how to translate it. I tried before, like, we have this world championships and European championships. And if you win, if you are top eight, the world's or like top six, it Europeans, you get this monthly salary that the country is paying to you. I don't know how to translate. Okay. But yeah. So we have a lot of people trying to win that. I had that for two years. No kidding. Yeah. But those competitions are drug tested. Ah, so yeah. So you're competing until you actually get caught finally and then you're. I like that. He's not claiming it's natural. He's claiming it there. Yeah. They're testing. Yeah. Two different, very different things. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it is different. Like, there are natural shows and drug tested. Drug tested ones. You try to pass the test. And natural ones are for actual natural people. Nobody is natural. These those shows. I mean, very rarely. Like everybody is on something until they get caught. Until they win, you know, usually when you win your, you're tested. And that's how life will. I want you to be on championships, silver, and yeah, I failed this. I know my good friend Bob Weatherhill, who, who got his pro card at the North American's actually. But he tells me a story about him and Paul Dillett come and down from Canada for the North Americans and like 92 or something. Paul wasn't a pro yet. Okay. And they would come down and it was during that short era where they were randomly drug testing two people from every class. So Bob tells me him and Paul would line up for the heavy weights like this. And it was like walk through and then they weigh in and they'd walk away. And they'd go, grab me. Oh my god. And there's, there's, there's it would be out the weigh in. She'd get snagged. They'd be like, you're testing you. Yeah, and so you just line up in the guy standing there with the clip board and you're like, don't pick me, don't pick me. I feel like in the US the way they would do that is pick the guy they assume is natural. The punter. They're like, let's test this guy. That's 132 pounds and fall back up quarterback through the second to back up quarterback. It isn't the heavy weights right now. Yeah. Yeah. They're not actually trying to catch you. They're just trying to, trying not to catch you on. Yeah. These guys are all natural. As you can see, we have a team drug test passed. Oh man. That would make more sense because this way we are losing great competitors. Like every year we lose a couple of really good ones and they move to NPC and that's it. It seems funny to me because I mean, hey, no one cares. Be like, you know, I mean, why do you go to the circus to see the freaks? Yeah. So it's like, let's do this. I mean, I need them to bring it back to baseball. So I can start watching baseball again. Yeah. It's because of the world and they do up in agency. I mean, they are, the finine say they are actually giving us the money for those salary. Oh, okay. Oh, scumbags. Oh, the money to follow the rules. Yeah. So, so, wow, what's the actual, what's the actual gear situation in Serbia? Well, actually, you can buy a testosterone and anti-toolegely in pharmacies. Yeah. Yeah. And it gets there. It's a lip balm and some deodorant and bottle of test anti-testing. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So like we have the head and you can buy also GH, but it's very expensive to buy it, you know, in a farm. Okay. If you can find it. Yeah. But you can buy it legally without a recipe. Do you guys have a Costco? No. Ah, you're halfway there. Yeah. If they had test at the Costco, then we're really coming full circle. Yes. Yes. Yeah. You can buy some stuff like it also. Yeah. You can buy that stuff. Okay. But the rest is in kind. Offs, yeah. But it's covered then. Yeah. But when you get big at least. Yeah. What about like enforcement and stuff? You know, here in the US, they make it like it's a big deal and everything. Like, oh, you know, steroids there. And I think that we're coming around now more than we used to be. But it's kind of really villainized. Do do do do do the authorities really care like say you got pulled over in your car and you had a bottle of master on with you. Well, I think all the cops are on juice over here. Yeah. So they might just take your juice. Yeah. Yeah. But then I don't think the care is like a public secret here. Recently there is one guy who is very popular in Serbia who was selling and he went to prison. But that's because he had some Kessa Misha with some guy who is, I don't know. I don't know if I should talk about this, but nobody's going to watch this from Serbia. And political situation is very complicated. There is a lot of corruption. And that guy got in trouble with some guy who was connected politically. And I think that's why they arrested him. But usually nobody pays attention to that. Right. That makes sense. What about like the gyms over there, then? And you said NPC too. So like what I guess that's two different questions. So before we get to the gyms, talk a little bit about the gyms. Talk a little bit about like NPC competition over in that area. Actually, I think maybe last year we started having one region or show and I don't know. I think that's the only one, but it's very, very weak. Like I'm busy. I don't think it's going to be able to stay here. It's probably going to have to move because everybody is competing in the FBI. It's competing in the FBI. It's because it pays. And in order to be good in NPC, you need to have a lot of money. I mean, you need to have like what you would consider normal amount of money. But in Serbia everybody is pretty poor. So I need to be able to travel to Europe to, I don't know, to other countries to compete. And to invest a lot like being here and in our Federation. It's much, much more affordable. So yeah, I'm busy in Serbia. I'm not very big at all. And as far as the teams, it's not that great. So we honestly, there is this one chain of gems that is pretty good. Everything else, not that great. I mean, it's a poor country. But I mean, I love it still. But it's very poor. I don't know. Maybe something changes right now. There are huge protests in Serbia because of that corruption like, but the past year. So, hopefully something will change, but I don't know. It doesn't seem very promising. Do you see yourself like moving anywhere else in the EU? No. I mean, the only place that I would maybe consider moving would be to US. But I don't know. I never been there. So it looks good on on fog videos and looks good on paper. Yeah. A lot of things do. Yeah. It's a good thing. I would love to visit one day. But as far as the number of people say, I might move to America. Like whenever I hear like a foreigner say I might move to America, I think of my experience with the United States. And it's not one country. Yeah. Yeah. Florida is not Colorado at all. Yeah. And it's true. Like it's, you know what I mean? We forget like moving to America or whatever. What exactly does that mean? Because it could be, you know, Tennessee or LA. Yeah. Very, very important that you know where you're moving. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The states I don't travel to. Right. What would you say? Like what are the best states to believe it? It depends on what you, I mean, depends on what you like and what matters to you. Like for example, me, California used to be amazing. I used to go there every other weekend, train at Gold's Venice, do the whole thing, get a hotel. It was amazing. And then politics there altered it. And now I mean homeless people are lining the streets. It's, it's not a place that you would necessarily want your wife walking down the road alone in. You know, so those types of things, you know, yeah, tax are out of control, just tons of those things. But I mean for, and then like Ron, for example, it's half of his decision is based on temperature. If it's hot, Ron's not interested, doesn't matter. You're like, you know, I finally moved somewhere that Ron's like, ah, I could do this. Yeah, your summer times are kind of right at my cut off. I could tell, I could tolerate that. Yeah. They're in handle Florida. Yeah. No, no, no. What about your own body building? What's your plan and what are your goals? And, you know, what do you see yourself being able to accomplish? Well, actually, I had a question for you. I'm going to ask you after I finish my answer. So I mean, so far, I mean, I tried. I was competing in Ibiza, like I said, like I was, I took second place at the world and then I wanted a piece and that's what I felt the drug test. And I decided to go for you. Good for you. I tried and actually tried myself out in NPC. And I did a video on Bonnec Classic. And I placed second in my division, my height class and the guy that won here, there, won the overall. And then he went to Fibo and he placed last. So and he was a lot better than me. So I was like, you know, I probably can't be a great pro. And at that point, I kind of quit, you know. But I'm thinking maybe I'm going to do it again. I'm not sure. And like, recently, I kind of switched, that flipped that switch in my mind, that I'm not going to continue competing. And I actually had a question for you, like, and at one point in your careers when you decided to stop competing, like, how did you adjust to that, like, mentally? So I mean, for me, it was always like, my next meal, my next meal, my next meal, always on the mission, always focused on training, on the next meal and gave me, like, this sense of productivity, mission purpose. And now without that, like, I tried to focus on YouTube, but it's, you know, it's just, it's like a job. That was, you know, something bigger than life, you know, a passion, you know, out of, it's strange. Like, how did you adjust to that transition on curious? Well, myself, I was sort of fortunate. I competed, my last show I was 39 years old. And I always told myself, I didn't want to be a 40 year old bodybuilder. Like, I didn't want to be competing at 40 plus. I don't know why I had that number in my head, but I used to say that when I was young. So, like, even in my early 20s, I would say, yeah, I would never do this past 40. I don't know where that came from. So I had already kind of programmed myself that my cod office 40. And I'd been doing it long enough that, you know, I was starting to be kind of ready. So I wasn't, I wasn't like 29 and stopping, which would have been a lot harder for me. You know, I was, I was, you know, 40. Then I had a big injury and then I opened a jam. And once the business opened, I was like, oh, I can just take all that ridiculous stuff that I've done and just put that towards a business, that mentality and, you know, the focus and all that stuff. And I just dumped it on my business. So that's what I tell everyone to do and they're ready to compete. It's dumped on your business. And then get a new hobby to that you can progress at. Because I think one of the things that body builders we all have is we need dusty calls. It is scoreboard. We need a scoreboard. And I know that the dusty end Scott have also talked about we need a drag and that we can slay every day. Yeah. That's it, yeah. And so I just made sure I had hobbies in my life that could be progressive at. Because, you know, I'm going to be, you know, three plate and the hammer machines for rest of my life now. I'm not going to be, you know, five or eight. Yeah, the five row for the two, three plate days are here. And I just want to enjoy the gym and I need something else that I can like crank away out of. I make a little bit of progress, you know, like I might learn a new song, I might guitar every six months. But I've got some new, little scoreboard, little scoreboard for me. Yeah. That's my answer. I don't know about dusty and Scott. But what about you? I mean, for me, it was the when really came down to the fact that when I turned pro, I knew it was over. Like, I knew the whole time as I was bodybuilding and I was not going to be a great pro. I had no delusions of grandeur. And so when I made it and that was great. And I did a couple shows. I realized that I was kind of, I mean, peaked to a point. And what I knew was feasible if I really poured in for a couple more years, still wasn't going to change anything. Like, you know, it was not moving me up a bunch. And I just realized, and I factor my last show, where everything went well, but I actually looked at my physique and I was like, I think I've gotten worse. I was bigger in some areas, but overall I was like, I think I'm a worse bodybuilding than I was a year ago. And so that made it simple for me to drop away, but the hard part, which you mentioned, was, I didn't know how to eat. Or what to do. Look at me because, well, because like you said, everything you did, everything you do when you're bodybuilding is based on the next show. So if the show is in 12 weeks, you're eating based on a show in 12 weeks, if it's in 62 weeks, you're eating based on that. And figuring out how to eat and how I wanted to live. And the big one was I didn't know what I wanted to look like. Because, you know, I see a lot now and kids talk about they're like, wow, you know, you try to stay tight for Instagram and I'm like, oh, I never gave a shit when I looked like, it was about the show. If I needed to be fat as hell to be a better bodybuilder for the show, I don't care. I wasn't pretty to begin with. Let's just be fat and ugly. Who cares? And, you know, so it was like, I really had to step back and figure out that. And so I took a long nap to kind of think it over. And literally slept for like, three months. Yeah. No, so, but now after my coma, I woke up and I just, I realized I just like to train, you know, a lot of people and it, I don't know why they've been wrote, hit during my career. But I only did bodybuilding because I love to train. Yeah. And I was like, well, I still love to train. I mean, I was out of the hospital at like five o'clock in the afternoon and I went and ate a steak to kill a cow for trying to kill me. And then at two in the morning, I drove to the gym. And I was like, all right, let's get back to it. And just started training. And a lot of people like, oh, that's so inspirational. I was like, doing my hobby. Like, it just never crossed my mind. And then of course, my body blew up again really quickly. And then I was like, oh, I better start thinking, like I said about what I want to look like because I don't really need to be big anymore. And that became the balancing board. But, you know, like Ron said, once I settled in, like, it's awesome to not bodybuild now. Like, I eat four times a day and I'll have a protein bar every day as if that's food. And totally satisfied. I'll decide that I'm going to lean down for something for a bit. And then two weeks later, your daughter's like, you want to go lunch? I'm like, I'm not missing that opportunity. And I go. So the freedom is awesome. And I think the big thing that you'll find is no matter where your career ends, you already did it. Like, there's nothing to prove to yourself or anybody else. You're like, once you've been big and sliced, like, that's the end of it. I mean, it was funny. But I looked at the USA as this weekend. And overall, I was underwhelmed. And I pulled up a picture of Ron doing a front double bicep in a show that he didn't do well in. And I showed him, showed Nikki that picture against a couple of guys that did the USA this weekend. And she's like, oh man, Ron, look, great. They're he just smoked him. I'm like, he didn't place in this show. And that was like a realization for her of how much the game has changed. But also, again, I showed him at his worst. And it was still awesome. And that can never go away. You know what I mean? So I love that part. Now, like I've said, I'm a show many times. You couldn't pay me to do a show. Offer me 100 grand to just get in shape. I'm like, eh, right over the beach. I'm good. How old were you when you stopped? Ah, let's see. I'm 105 now. I was 36 when I stopped. Well, is that your last show dusty? Yep. Wow. Yeah. What about the choose? Look, I got started late. You know, I had done bodybuilding as a kid. And then again, later as a teenager. And then again, from like 20 to 22. But I didn't stick with it. And it wasn't until I was about 32. And I had 33. And I had been in recovery for a little while. And I thought, you know what? If I'm ever going to reach that physique that I had dreamt of being able to one day do. Like, now's probably my last chance. So like at that point, I recognize like, I'm probably not destined to become the next Mr. Olympia. You know what I mean? Like, just getting consistent in my, you know, early 30s. So, but I still wanted to be the best I could. And for me, competing was that it was, you know, I kind of like, I looked at people and said like, first I honestly had 125 pounds. I was like, you know what? Those Kelvin Klein models. They have really good apps. And one day I would like to be able to have enough muscle to look like one of them. And fast board like three months. And I was like, oh, that was easy. That was it. And then I was like, you know what, Brad Pitt and Fight Club. He was Jack. That dude was big. I want to get to be like Brad Pitt and Fight Club. And that was not that hard either, you know. Three months later. Yeah. But then I saw this guy named Lance, who was walking through my gym. He was a middleweight competitor. I didn't know that at the time. And I just remember he had like the great, he was in the tank top and he was in contest shape. And he had these crazy round delts, including like the rear delts. Like everything looked 3D on him. And I was like, holy shit, that guy looks just different than everybody else, you know. And I meet the guy and I find out he competes. And so it kind of clicked to me that if I wanted to look like that, I may need a catalyst outside of myself. Because these were all catalysts outside of myself. Like I'm going to try to reach that level. I'm going to try to reach this level. And I thought, okay, so if I want to look like that, I have to have that catalyst of doing the things that would take to do a contest, which is first build more muscle and then get in really good shape. And so like as a middleweight body, but when I was my first contest, I knew like I said that I was it. But like it was great because I almost won that show. I missed it by one point. I expected just to like show up and have a good time and be dead last. And I almost won, you know. So from there that took me down to path of like just seeing what's the next thing I can do and how can I beat that. It eventually though I recognized like, man, I'm taking a lot more gear. And I don't think I should be doing this for a long time. And I had already gotten into coaching and been coaching for quite a while by the time I decided to stop. And it wasn't like a true contest decision, but I was just like, I don't see myself doing this again unless I could make a very definitive difference and come back a lot bigger. And then I might, you know. And then after that I ended up getting sick and it just didn't happen anymore. And I had to come to terms with that. And it wasn't on my terms because I had gotten sick and all that. But I mean, now I'm pretty happy with it. And I'm finally back full circle to like, okay, this is awesome. And I just love training. And I'm shooting for what can I do next? And so I'll tell you what, man, if you love bodybuilding even, whether you're competing or not, like competing is just to me, it's one phase of it. And I can still be just as passionate about it today and get so many great things out of it. I want to be able to keep it in my life forever. It's not going to be at that same level that it was. And there's other things. It's nice because I have a lot more time. If you're competing, there's only so many clients I can work with. There's only so many podcasts I can do. But it's nice to have it as a part of my life and rich my life and make it better. I think I'm a better person to be around. I'm healthy. Hopefully I'll be around longer. If I fall down and won't break my hip when I'm 80 or less likely to, stuff like that. Keep it rolling. I guess our expectations change for the sport. And if we love it, we keep it in our lives. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, basically what I'm getting from all of you guys is that I should continue competing. Because you, you stop. I mean, dust and run, especially you stop when you were basically done. You know, they were big, huge and you were pros. I mean, I didn't turn, row and I definitely don't think I was big enough ever. So maybe that's it. But I'm like, I probably can't become a top level pro. I'm much better at this YouTube thing. So I should probably put all my attention to that to the business. But I don't know. I mean, I think your passion is what you got to remember. If you have a side passion and then you're lucky enough that your side passion also feeds the thing that pays your bills, you're going to be crazy to stop. Because you got to remember, this is the same thing I tell clients all the time. It doesn't matter. I don't, when I'm talking to Jose Raymond or J. Cutler, they don't go, oh, that's dusty. He's not a great pro. He's a bodybuilder. Like a dozen of them care. There's no, no, you know, when we talk to you and you show me a progress picture from today in a year from now, I don't go. I was bigger than that. I go, holy shit, that's enormous change. And I think that's the thing that you should lean into and enjoy and get addicted to. Because I mean, we all have clients that we coach and I'll look at some of their pictures sometimes and we're talking about guys that I'm like, man, I hope one day he can get the top five at the local show. But I see his progress pictures and I get fired up. Because I'm like, holy shit, this dude went in for six months and look how well he was rewarded. You know what I'm saying? So I think you got to erase that gatekeeping mindset about what level you're at because we just talked about this the last week or so. I like to remind clients like, do you know how few people ever win an overall at a local show? There's 300 people doing it and one guy leaves with the win. Like true. You really want to break that down because I think we all look at the Olympian. We go, ah, the Olympian. I'm like, oh, huge it is if you've won your class at a show or whatever. So it's like, to me, you remember every show that you're doing is your Olympia. I was more excited when I won my first overall than when I turned pro because it was just the moment everything was so exciting. And when I won my pro card, I knew I knew the two days before the show, I'm like, I'm not getting beaten. Now what I was like, yeah, let's go eat. So I mean, you really don't want to hang the value of your passion on where can go compared to other people because it doesn't matter. Yeah, I think I just need to somehow maybe like I was, I think I was delusional enough to actually believe that I can be like a top level pro up until recently until I actually did an NPC show and I saw how good I need to actually be to be that good. So you know, I need to maybe sweetly mind sit, you know, just, you know, doing it as a hobby enjoying it, focusing on the progress and that's it. What changed the look? You know, I mean, I, I competed to win and shows I knew I couldn't win. Yeah, you know what I'm saying? You know, you need to be prepping and treating your offseason like you're going to be a top pro. But knowing full well that at the end of the day, I mean, this is something I do with every single competitor before a show, Friday night for a show. I said, I'm three questions. Did you follow the diet? Everything I said to a letter, nothing changed, nothing added, nothing taken away. Yes. Did you train as hard as you could? You do all the cardio. Yes. Is this the best you've ever looked? Yes. Then tomorrow doesn't matter. Hmm. Because tomorrow is out of our control. Someone comes better than you. You can look back and go. There was nothing I would have done different. So who gives a shit? You know what I'm saying? And that's what matters. You want to make sure that you can look a year from now. Let's say you just say I'm going to do a one year bulk from today. You want to look and go, you know, I'm checked every day of the year. Like I have a lot of my clients are serious by calendars, like physical calendars. And I say every day that you do everything on plan, the water, the sleep, the training, the food, everything, put a check on it. Every day you don't, if one thing is off, put an axonet. And then watch that calendar. And if the end of a month, if you see five axes, don't bitch that you're not better. Because I had none. Right. Yeah. I was on man, like put a best couple of years. I was like really focused on the in the off season and all the time. And then I was like, you know, why am I sacrificing so much? Maybe I should just relax a little, leave a life. But I don't like it. I'll play a lot of that. But if I continue to play two much freedom, it's my head. Right. But I'm thinking maybe if I, you know, I mean, I took a couple of months, like, not off. But like I'm doing less. I mean, I'm cruising with the stocks that are not on the right now. And I'm not really eating as soft and I'm a little bit more relaxed eating out. It's tough. But if I decide to prep again, I'm thinking about maybe I don't class it next year. I hope that giving a pretty pro cards to influencers. Yeah. What's funny though is if you, if you love it, I think that's the thing that get people confused is when I look now as a retired bodybuilder, I say, I wouldn't make the sacrifice because I want to go to dinner with my friends on Saturday. When I was bodybuilding, I would say I don't want to make the sacrifice from bodybuilding by going out with my friends. So it's not a sacrifice if you're doing what you want to do. Yeah. You've got to throw away the world's version of what you're supposed to do with your life. I look back at my years as a bodybuilder and I regret nothing. I don't regret a single mis-to-vente. I don't regret breaking up with the girl because she's a paining nothing. And now that I'm over it, it's the reverse, you know, multiple. You know, but now with life changed, now I can look and say, that was me then. This is me now. So while you're here, you would regret following the rules and relaxing now because you don't want to relax. I also really, you know, know that I'm, I'll be 50 this year. So my big thing for all the young people that ask me advice is I'm like, make your money. Right. And I think it's amazing, like, you know, 29, you said just 29? Yeah, 30, 30 this year. Yeah. So like, and you got a channel that's kicking ass and you're growing your business and everything. So you can still, you know, like, you know, back when we started the only people getting paid where the top 10 guys at the O and it's slowly morphed as dusty and I got to the end by the time we were done our 20 years of bodybuilding. There was money in it for amateurs at a certain level and then it morphed even more since we retired. And now no one even cares if you're pro. It's like there's all these business ways you can, like, you know, people trust you, the people that watch you love you, they, they, they agree with what you say. They want to hear what you have to say and being, you know, if you keep continuing for a few more or keep continuing competing for a few more years, I think it'll just, if you want to, it would just add to your credibility. And it would just enhance your bid and you can think of it as a business enhancement. Yeah, that's what I was thinking to and I'll tell you that if you don't stay plugged in and you're like, I'm not really into bodybuilding anymore. I can guarantee you that the channel won't be as fun either, you know what I mean? And if you don't have your heart or your life and bodybuilding anymore, then it's kind of like, yeah, I just phone in this thing in, you know, but you do this because you do the channel because you love bodybuilding. That's the, that's the ground of it all, you know? Yeah, and I feel like that's why my channel grew so much because people can, here the passion in my voice when I speak. Yep. And I was actually thinking the same way about this last show I did, William Bonneclassica was like, I'm going to try to win a pro card if I, if I become pro, I'll have more, more than the ability for the channel and for the coaching and even if I don't, I'm still, you know, I try to compete at an MBC, I play second. That's also kind of a success. But like, at that point, I was like, maybe that's as much as I can do. You know, maybe I should just now focus on the channel, but I don't like it. I think I'm going to compete with the new competing for it. It doesn't matter though. I'll tell you that like what you're doing. So in 2010, I had, it was like my breakout year on the national level in 2011, I did terribly. And I just kept putting the YouTube videos up like I, we filmed one the morning after pre-judging. I was doing cardio, getting ready for an extra. I knew I was off. We had like just an open conversation in the point of this is my following group more after my two worst placings than any other time. No kidding. Because people were like, then they identify you like, oh, you're real. Oh, yeah, just said you sucked and you did suck. And, and I, so I mean, I really wouldn't, you know, just look at everything you're doing as, as something you're doing as a passion, but it's all going to help you and like, Ron said, I mean, I didn't need to work. When I was bodybuilding my last five years as an amateur, I had a full time living from bodybuilding. I just did my business because I wanted to and I wanted more money. But like, it'll all pay you. And I think it also drives home the point because with your channel, you're very opinionated, but because you live the life and the things you've said and kind of backed it up, even if I disagree with your opinion, I still respect your opinion. You know what I mean? And that's something people can't buy. You've established that with time and you know, living it and obviously you've proven time and time again, you know what you're talking about, which is enormous. No. Makes sense. I feel like we're talking to all the audience right now, too, which is awesome. Like they're all like taking notes, like that's true. I could do this. Well, and I think you know what, you, you, you may be this can be a great learning experience for you, too, of just getting a better perspective on who you are and even if it, you know, isn't like the thing you wanted to hear, like, hey, maybe I'm not as great as I thought I could have been or whatever, that doesn't mean that you still can't be better. And coming to terms with that, you might have a better perspective on what you're going to do to get there. You know what I mean? Because I've seen so many times where it's like, I just need to use more of this or take more of that or all the guys at that level, they're all doing this. So I'm, you know, infusing like you needed to maybe take more do more and push your health further versus, you know, versus have a good perspective and be like, hey, I'm going to do the absolute best I can and try to stay healthy at this in the process. I think that would be the ultimate loss in all of this. That would be the lose would be like if you come out the other end of this, just try until like complete kill it, kill it every year and then you have a health issue in five years, you know? Yep. That's the next question. I actually had for you guys. I mean, that's one of the reasons why I consider it maybe stopping because I'm I mean, I wasn't doing anything crazy but still like it's not like I was natural. Right. Right. None of us were. You know, I mean, I was thinking about that as well. Like maybe like I don't know how much sense it makes to keep, you know, doing that stuff to myself. Maybe I can do it like with less I can try, you know? I always had the term, like I was had speed limits. Set up when it came to the gear and I always had things that I wasn't going to do and I'm really glad that I for the most part stuck to those sort of things I'd always told myself, I'm never going to do this. I'm never going to do that. I don't think it would have made a difference for me. I don't think, you know, I don't think I was so gifted that I was on that verge of no greatness or one more. I go down one more amp. No one would have made it. Yeah. I think that just some of you have a reasonable speed limit in your head. Like people just get carried away. They just, I mean, we've seen some of the numbers of some of the stuff we've seen people do. It's like we're even not thinking like we're just stop thinking about anything other than just the show. Well, plus you got to remember, you have the answers. Like I don't know how it is there, but I did blood work year round my whole career. And that was what allowed me to know. I was fine. You know, because it blows my mind how many competitors, they're like, well, I feel fine. I'm like, well, that doesn't mean shit. Yeah. You know, I mean, the few times that my love levels were off. And I mean, I would, I would message Dante having a heart attack and he's like, bro, are you serious? This is a non issue. It has like, they're always perfect. And he's like, they're not, they're not now. But he was like, the amount of people who just don't look because they don't want to know. And it's like, if you're watching that stuff, man, and only wrong. Obviously, being 300 pounds for a long time like Ron and I did was not healthy. But overall, we manage as best we could in a sound like, since you don't blood work, you're doing the same. And then, you know, when the blood work tells you that you need to do something or not do something, you listen, you know. But that's like Ron said, that's a huge thing too. As I had things I didn't want to do, I had things I said I would never do that I dabble to it. And then eventually I actually found my sweet spot with those and stuff ended up being lower than places I had went because I would increase the dose and then I wouldn't see much change. And I was like, well, then why did I increase the dose? You know what I mean? Because I was still under the mentality that everyone is, I was like, all right, I know I don't use much. But if I did, I bet you'd get crazy. And then I bumped up a little to see. And I was like, no, I didn't get crazy. I'm just wasting more money and definitely getting a little more risky with the health. And then back it back down. So, you know, I think you got the right mindset. But if you're watching the blood and anyone who's listening to this constant, you know, I love when clients they get down they're like, let's wait a couple months to do the blood work. I don't know. No, let's do it today. I want to know how bad it is at its worst place. So we can decide what we need to do. We're not going to partially clean it up and then take a peek. You know, weeks after the show or before the idea. Yep. I mean, I checked my body work all the time. It was never bad once even like during the worst parts with the prep. And you know, I checked my body like everything else, everything is so far so good. But I never was as big as you guys. Like I maybe I was to 70 max at six foot one. So like I never pushed that side. I guess I'll be okay. I mean, if I continue pushing what a few more years, but stealing or you're a baby. Yeah, hold on. What else do you do there? What what what he doing was bodybuilders do in Serbia for fun. Of course. Well, I was out loud. Did you say the quiet part dusty? Oh, wow. Yes. But you say that's your answer all the time. Yes. Well, I don't know. I mean, I have a couple of friends who are like serious competitors. I mean, like myself. And like I don't meet them that often. I mean, my circle here is nobody's a bodybuilder. So I don't really get to that's also one of the reasons why I started the channel because I didn't have who to talk to about bodybuilders. Right. Build some community for yourself. Yeah. Yeah. But now I have a couple of friends, but they're all far away. We meet maybe a couple of times a year. But we travel sometimes to these international competitions. And then we stay there, train a little bit, and stay in the hotel, eat clean food over there. And maybe sometimes we go to the bigger city, go train together. But not very often. My life is usually, I'm usually surrounded with people who are not into bodybuilding really. Right. And you're always working like everyone else. What's the coolest place you've traveled to for bodybuilding? Hmm. The coolest for bodybuilding. Well, me personally, I love Spain, Santa Susana. That's where near Barcelona. That's where the world championships and European championships is being held. Because there is usually like, I don't know, 1500 competitors when the shows are happening. And a whole bunch of people from Serbia are like, the whole community basically goes over there. At least half of us. So it's always like, you know, we stay there for a week and it's usually really awesome. How far is that away? Like, flight? Yeah. How far flight? Two hours maybe. Oh, okay. It's easy. It's easy. You're just so crazy. How tight everything is in Europe. I also love though because in the States, like, because we're so spoiled with bodybuilding and stuff, like you can barely get someone to drive across town for a show. Yeah. Let alone like the whole community is like, we're going to Spain. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, I mean, it's, I love the world. I love that part because that's what that's how when Ron and I came up and Scott, like, there was, when there wasn't Instagram and Facebook and all that, if I heard that a pro I wanted to see was speaking in San Francisco and I was in Scottsdale. I was like, I'm going. Yeah, crazy times. Take a flight just to go spend an hour, listen to a seminar and then hang out for a few days and train and fly home and now people are like, oh, it's on the west side. That's like 45 minutes away. Yeah. And I'll wrap it. You know, you know, like I used to catch flights through the, I drove eight hours to meet Dorian, I drove five hours to meet Mike Madarazo. You guys have seen it though up at the booth at the Arnold because that's a, that's a three four hour drive from Detroit. And how many Detroit people did you guys meet there? Will I make that drive down? Like just going around, walk around, meet everybody and stuff. So it's, I mean, I know it's not, it's not huge, but you know, those Detroiters, they're all making that four hour drives to the Arnold brings out the hardcore Scott. Yeah. Yeah. And the amount of people that like fly and I'm like, oh, where are you from? And they're like Germany and I'm like, oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I caught the accident. I didn't want to assume. Okay. No, it's cool. Have you had anyone, have you done any interviews on your show on your, your podcast? Haven't had anyone on yet? Who would you like to have on your show? Have you thought about like, do you have a list of like, people I'd love to have on? No, I don't. He on. He on. Listen, by them right now. Yeah. Let's all talk. Well, the person that I like to listen to most and probably watch the most podcast, with his story on Yates. Okay. But I don't know what, what would I ask him because I already heard everything has to say. Yeah. I'm not going to be a part of the. No, basically. Jack, well, yo, yeah. Yeah. Nice. Nice, nice. Maybe you're about that. You just had a hip replacement. I haven't done anything to his, I don't know. I wasn't thinking about that. But like, maybe now when I started, you know, with a camera and everything, maybe stuck by stuff. Yeah. Maybe. I think you'd be on the screen now. Yeah. I think you'd be good at it. Yeah. Just pick a video that you were nice about. Yeah. Like, and then send that to the person and go see. It's a friendly show. Nice to you. Nice to you. Yeah. Don't look at any other ones. Sometimes they're not nice to you. No. When I started, man, I was, I was younger. Of course, I was like 23, 24. And I was terrible. Like, I was not honest. I was an asshole, basically. And you know, I started to talk to you. So you got the views. Yeah. Yeah. That's how he got the views in the beginning. But then then I started working with a new sponsor, old school labs. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And one of their guys basically was like, you need to be more, but was the word, marketable. Like, you can be good enough without the crazy takes, without being too, I don't know. I don't know what was the word of business. Honest not ruthless. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then I come down a little bit. But like, there are some videos. All videos maybe I should remove them. I said, I don't know. I think it's the most. I love it. What's the plan for the show coming into the Olympia? Do you have any breakdown stuff planned? You kind of want to ramp the show into the Olympia? And you do that sort of stuff with it? Well, I'll just do the way I always did it. Basically, just follow what people are posting and, you know, update everybody on that and, you know, day at the time. Who do you think is, oh, sorry. Go ahead, it's guy. Oh, I was just going to say that he's got to spend so much time, like, following everything. Yeah, everything. Because when I want to know what's going on, that's why I follow even is because like, I don't necessarily have to go and look at Instagram and scroll down myself. I'll get all the highlights just by tuning into his channel every day. He's like sports center for bodybuilders. Yeah. Who literally? Yeah. Who puts up? Who puts up the most accurate progress photos of all the top guys? Oh, there's a good one. Yeah. You know, because everyone now got that one house in the room in their house or whatever, where the light one mirror. But who do you think is like the Ferris with their photos? Well, I would say it unique, but actually he looks much better on stage than he doesn't. He's progress photos. Huh. So it's okay. He's talking stuff that he looks better. So maybe that's part of the game. Yeah. That's part of Nick's. Yeah. Yeah. Put it. Put the 85% lighting on. Yeah. Yeah. Posts a 85%. He turns the grain down. Yeah. Yeah. He puts the porn filter on. He's down a bit. Yeah. Then that softening filter that you could do on your Instagram. Test your out of all the skin. Yeah. Oh, you can't hide his freak. What about what about? Who's who's? Who do you think doctors there picks up the most? Who's Jimmy and up their photos? That's Chris with cyber answer. I'm not sure as far as like the competitor. Everyone. I know who he's going to say as a coach though. Who's the coach that does the most? Maybe it shouldn't say it. I'll do it. Patrick. I'll do it. Patrick. See, that's how I've seen people put that in the comments. Like I saw some guy roll like this. Oh, this picture. This picks a Patrick special. Yeah. But I don't know how one fair that is. Like, you know, Patrick seems like a great guy. So I don't know how. He's a great guy. He's a great guy. He's a great guy. He has great stuff. And I'm like, thanks a bit. They don't need to be an artist. I always feel like that's the worst thing. Like if my coach did that to me, I'd be like, Great bro. Now when I walk out on stage with a phenomenal condition, they'll go, ah, he's not as good as I was expecting. You don't want to give your week out photos like the full will Whitman. Yeah. You know, Yeah. So you walk out of stage, everyone's like, oh. Yeah. That's why Nick goes down with them and then shock some little walks out. You know, like surprise Nick Walker. Yes. Who do you think is the best at their Instagram, just generally like who's Instagram do you think is, I don't know. The best. Whatever that means. Whatever that means. Well, like for hardcore body building, even like multiple influencers, again, my answer has to be Nick. There you go. Okay. All right. Because you're the one you probably sifted through these guys, profiles, what, 100 times one we have. Yeah. I think basically Nick made me like 25% of all the money I made on YouTube because there's so much content. Like, this is always an update from Nick. Right. Okay. How long have you been seriously following bodybuilding? I'm going to have a follow up question. Well, I think since 2000 and maybe seriously, I don't know since Louis Marco era, maybe 15 years ago, something like that. Okay. So with that, what are your two most memorable competition moments, as far as like guys that came out and blew people's minds or whatever? I would have to think about this. You have 30 seconds. You have 30 seconds. Man, you got me there. Like, were you stunned by like, I mean, for example, like, you know, we all have the memories, of course, Ronnie walking out in 98, you know, Ronnie walking out in 03, J&O1, where when you were there, you're brain exploded. Yeah. You know, I remember actually the moment when Sean Rodin won the Mr. Olympia. I was thinking that one as an option. Yeah. Man. Yeah, I remember something else. Yeah. I was going to have before him. I don't know. Like, Phil was raining for a long time. Like, seven times. And Sean won and his physique was phenomenal. I, I, I, I follow his whole prep. You know, he was training with Chris cycle always and standing up. And I don't know. He kind of nobody would expect to him to win. And then he showed up looking for kind of amazing. And yeah, he won. That was that one. I'll play the one. One of them. Oh, yeah. The energy in that room, too. Even those two as well. Same. Man. Yeah. I think that's something else. That was to me. That'd be one of mine as far as like shows. I've actually been at to like I won't forget everybody standing up at once. Yeah. I, I would say. Um, I was at that one, too. And I was also, I mean, I could see it. But a friend of mine got a video of it that was awesome. And it was, uh, the video was road and winning. And then he turned his camera to where a cito was sitting. And you saw Jay get out of his chair and walk down four or five rows. And then walk in to find Chris to grab him and shake his hand. And, uh, I thought that was awesome. Because, you know, rodents on stage is confetti in the air. Yeah. They're playing AC DC shook me all night long. I remember exactly what song they played. And Jay goes to find Chris and shakes his hand in the crowd. And I just thought that was like, I thought that was a cool moment for, you know, Chris and Sean and Jay, like, it was just kind of a neat thing that happened. I remember that being like, one of my highlight sort of a limp of final, you know, winner announcement moments. Yep. So that was a cool time. Yeah. Who's your favorite bodybuilder of all time? Go to the news. I knew it. I was given. Yeah. Not just him, but the physique and everything, the whole, the whole thing. Well, the physique as well. I mean, yeah, the whole thing for sure, the personality and all that. But the physique as well. I mean, it's not the most complete physique and it's not the best. I would say Ronnie would beat him of course. Probably a couple of other guys to in a history. But I just love his physique. It was unique, you know, that man that is the same big cows and like crazy lads, crazy to the front lads spread that front lads spread like the best physique. Like if you talk about the one post front lads spread from Dory and in the same. Yep. There's something about and I know it sounds weird and to the average person looking at all of the bodybuilders. It probably think they all look the same, right? But there was something about Dory and because I saw him in person in 93. And there was something about him that looked so powerful. And I think it was partially obviously there's all that muscle. But he also had crazy forearms, which always I noticed forearms. I don't know if it's because I'm grip on a farm. So my dad always taught me like you can tell what kind of job a guy has. You know, like whole thing. And when I noticed it, do that big forearms. I'm like, okay, okay, what's going on here? This guy's like gripping and ripping big weights. Right? And then also the traps from the front and the floor. Yeah. Because they all bodybuilders at that level have big traps or whatever. But the next level sort of like power how something really crazy is going on with this guy. That was Dory and traps. I remember when I met him. I just was thinking like, oh, there. Because you know, up on the stage, they kind of look, everyone's at the same, but not in person. They don't like the same in person. They just looks like this guy could like just getting to move my house. Yeah. What was the year? Ron, what was the year that they filmed the Olympia, the Dory, and when they came up from the back, like, filmed and walked out. Yeah. And there's the 93 footage of him going up stage. Yeah. And which is very famous. That's when I just remember thinking like, yeah, like that was the first time in real life, I realized that your traps sit on you piggyback. Mm-hmm. Because his or dense all the way down to his erectors. Yeah. And then I like behind him a foot, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Just insane. You know. Yeah. We just seemed like a guy in person. I can't even imagine what it was like in person. I'm just talking about the other videos and photos. It must be insane. I don't know. I'll tell you this. I trained, I trained with him. After he was retired. And I tell him he was all the time, but the short version of story is this. He's retired for years at this point. And he's still the most intense person I've ever been around. Still pacing. I mean, like, when he told me I had another rep, it was an optional. I didn't think about it. If he would've told me I had a hundred more reps, I would've went for him. Because I was like, I'm not fucking telling this guy. I know he'll kill me. Like he, like, you could feel intensity coming off him. And all I thought of when I laughed was, this is him retired. Like what was it like when he was in it? Because I'm sure he's like, oh, I'm so relaxed now. I'm like, you're not. He's the effect of his voice yelling at you after all those years of watching Blood and Gods would've worked. True. Yeah. Yeah. I've got a really important question even. If you were, say, sitting at a restaurant in Dory and Yates happened to be there. And let's say Dory and ordered some salmon and he didn't want to eat it. Would you feel obligated if he was like, hey, even, do you want to eat this salmon? And he touched it. Yeah, untouched. I'm touched. Like he ordered it. Decided he didn't want it. You would probably eat the salmon in my right? Because I was. I would eat the salmon. Yeah, I think he said. So, so three of the four of us would eat the salmon. The one guy who this actually happened to didn't eat the salmon. He's like, they're not next. Fuck you. Thanks. That's how right I ate. He told Dory and Yates to go fuck himself. I just said that. Thanks. Then afterwards I was like, should he eat that? He just, how would it been a little, would it been a little bond between Dory and And I for the rest of our lives? Even if he had power through it. You know what I mean? Just, yeah. Even if he did feel allergic. You have a just eat the salmon. I mean, I'll tell you this much true story. Every time I see Dory and I'm with Ron, he says high dusty and then walks away. Yeah. Okay, not really a true story, but still. No, basically. Yeah, and it should be the truth. Yeah. Well, we're, we're hoping that a lot of your viewers who have no idea who we are. Cross over and check us out and watch, you know, our chat with you, having you on the show and, and, and, you know, maybe some of our viewers will check your channel out too. Ivan bodybuilding. If that's what contest coverage. Yeah. Yes. You go into us. Go to him. And it's, it's our out. That's our out from now on. We have a guy. We have a guy. Yeah, we'll send you to, to even, you know, and it's a Stainable podcast and great jokes as well. You guys are super funny as well. Oh, well, got to be good at something. We'll tell the writers. We'll let the writers know. But even bodybuilding on YouTube, correct? Yes. And even bodybuilding on Instagram too, is it? There's no underscores or anything. It's just easy. Even bodybuilding coaching, actually. Coach bodybuilding coaching. Okay. Okay. Yeah. No man. Thanks for coming on. We really appreciate it. And, uh, yeah, you know, like I said, we, we often joke how, how bad and incomplete all of our Contest coverage is. And we really don't mean to be terrible at it. We just keep sidetracked. Yeah. This is sidetracked. We'll do fourth, third, second, next division. And, uh, he's like, I've seen it. Yeah. But you, you give like really good, Thurl breakdowns and updating people on the progress Pictures and make it creates like, it's helpful because it creates some excitement and bodybuilding needs. There's no going to do it for us. And we need people like, like you that are actually brewing up some, you know, So even if these guys, even if these guys don't like exactly what you have to say about their latest picks, I think it's a benefit to everyone because people are going to their profiles and checking them out and following them on the follow and. You know, this all is like synergistic isn't that the words got. It's the word. Yeah. Try to try to be synergistic with with each other. And so thanks for coming on the show even. And like when Scott told me you watched all the episodes, I was like, There's no way he could watch watch on the top. But I actually believe you. So that's amazing. So thank you. Thank you for inviting me and also, like, thank you for making your content because if I prep again, I'll rewatch all the episodes again probably. Yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. And if you, and if you prep again, just. Make sure you, you know, show everything on your channel. Yes. And just like milk the most out of it and take your viewers for the ride of going on a prep with you. And I think that people love that shit. And I wish I was better at opening up my. My life more to my social because I feel like I've still got a lot of barriers. I don't want to show that. I want to show. And uh, uh, young guy like you with more of a new school attitude. Just do your thing, man. No, I'm going to change that. Yeah. How is I seeing you're already years ahead? You're years ahead. 29th of the killer channel. So yeah, it's exciting times. So we hope to see you at the Olympia one of these days. Yes. That'd be cool. That'd be great to get you over there. Maybe we. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, the Arnold, maybe the Olympia get you over there. You should be over there covering this shit. It'd be great to see you. And uh, yeah. And you find a words to people want to check out your channel and all that. Just just type people and body feeling. If you're, you know, if you're into body feeling and you want to, body building use. That's it. And once again, thank you guys so much. And I hope I didn't bore you to that. It was awesome. You can't. I desperately wanted someone to talk to you. I enjoyed it for sure. Awesome. Okay. And show to Blackstone or the, uh, their sponsor in your channel now. Yeah. Shout out to Blackstone and my sponsor. Awesome. Awesome. Good for them. I'm glad somebody's saying carry. Yeah. Okay. Even even body building. Thanks for coming on the show. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment and ring the bell. That's right. And remember, I am mutant.com, dusty or big run. Save money. Don't leave her house. Don't see people. No people. Just haven't dropped on your step. Very fast delivery. Get your ISO search. Get your all in and everyone should get on the gear. Okay. Thanks everybody and remember it's just body building.

What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with Coach's Skip Hill in Andrew Barry. I'm Scott McNally. All of our programming is brought to you by you, the wonderful people at Patreon for real. Thank you guys very much for all your support. We're also brought to you by Strong Sports Nutrition in the UK, Trunutrition in the US user code. Thank you. And we are brought to you by SupplementSource.ca. We've got a topic for you today. We're going to knock out some listener questions. Skip, I'm leaving this to you. I mean, really weird. We're thinking about like, what can we call it? And we're thinking about like training volume too much or not enough. I don't know exactly how we can package that up into a little YouTube title. Let's just close this. We've gotten so far. But the reality is what? That not all body parts need to be trained the same amount all the time. Is that what we're getting at here? Yeah, I think there's this this anacquated understanding. And I think sometimes we even fall into this ourselves with our own training that as an example you hit, you know, using arbitrary numbers, 12 sets of back. So, you know, chest has to be slightly less than that at 8 to 10 or 10 to 12. And then shoulders have to be a little bit less than that. And that there is some kind of unwritten rules, as far as how many sets we have to do. And I know I have been guilty of it myself, but I do a couple of questions from clients over the last couple of weeks. I found myself explaining, giving the same explanation, trying to get them away from that and equated our cake way of looking at things and trained those body parts based on how they, how those body parts recover and what they respond to. As an example, I could take quads and probably destroy them in six sets. That doesn't fit the kind of the set progression or the outline that you would think because legs, you know, a lot of times, guys would hit the majority of their sets on legs. And then maybe as many as back, because it's a bigger muscle group. And I think we tend to think, well, it's a bigger muscle group. We need more sets. Yeah. And I think it depends on there's so many variables. There's the movement. There's the type of training that you're doing, the frequency, of course, things like that. So I just thought it would be a good topic because I figured if I have, you know, any time, you guys know, this, anytime you have a client come to you with something or you have a few clients, you think it's like that little, that dim little light bulb above my head goes on like, oh, that might make for a really good topic on the show. Well, I got questions for you. I got questions for you. Okay. So six sets on legs, for instance, you said, on quads. Now has it always been that way or does it have to do with your current ability to train? Like have you learned to train harder over time? And before you answer that, let me ask you this, how long does that work out take? You know, because for, say, a newbie, because I could see, I'll tell you what, man, I could see that say 12 sets for everything. Sounds great to me for somebody who's never trained before. They're getting in the gym and they need a, they need a foundation, right? So if we start out with say 12 sets, maybe it evolves from there, but somebody who's never been in the gym before, I don't think they're going to get everything they need a six sets, you know what I mean? Sure, absolutely. And for the record, I do more than six sets of quads, just because even though I might only need six, you know, I go sometimes the more is better and you're going to couple more. Yeah. But you know, you bring up a good point too, because it can sometimes change even if you have the same training style. There are just times where I guess what I'm getting at is you, to be able to read that workout while you're doing it versus going in with this predetermined idea of what you have to get done. And I think that's probably the biggest point, but there are tons of variables. I mean, age is a huge one. It's not even age from a chronological standpoint. It's how long have you been training because the longer you train, you tend to have that basically a better ability to generate intensity. Yeah. As an example, what say DC training is a good example where it's very, very low volume, but the intensity is very high. So think about it. If your sets are incredibly intense in their high rep, how many Widowmakers can you do? Can you take six, that will quad to failure at 20 reps? Tell me you're going to need more than six sets. I mean, the three of us alone would probably be throwing up going to failure when 26 sets of, and you ask him how long it takes. And I don't need to do about maybe nine working sets. Okay. It'll take me an hour because again, different variables for me. I'm older. I got, I think I've spent 20 minutes warming up for quads before I feel like in my brain, my knees are ready to go. And I don't have to go into those working sets with this idea of, uh, can I, can I really go out of 100%. I have to program and get my brain ready to go because once you're in your working set, you know, it's just basically your brain, you have to flip that switch. Your brain has to be basically in that mode of, I got to just, I got to just, I got to get every single thing I can that I can get out of this set. Yeah. And you can't do that if psychologically you're not there. And I think it's difficult to go into the gym and go, oh, I did two or three warmups, I'm going to go. I've been training for almost 40 years. I can't flip that switch that quickly. I have to build into it and almost build a confidence in my brain that, okay, now I'm ready to go. But I asked you guys, have you ever been in a set before and it's your first working set? And you're in four or five reps and you just rack it and get out and go. Sure. I'm not going anywhere with it. Need to go back in and not there. I need to flip that switch and I haven't flipped it yet. Sure. Absolutely. Sometimes you do it because either you miscalculated the weight, like either the weight's too light and you're like, oh, no, this isn't going to be an empty the tank set. Like I can go up another 20, 30 pounds or whatever it is. And then other times you're like, oh, shoot, like I over estimated where I'm at or what I can do today. I don't have this in the tank to get the rep ranges that I'm expecting to get. I need to drop it down a little bit. So I think it goes both ways there. Or I'm just not queued up enough. I think that there's two things I'm warming up. I'm warming up obviously like the physical, the muscle, the joint, the connective tissue. And then I'm also kind of warming up my central nervous system. It's like, you ever lift a particular, you know, work set and you struggle for 10. And then you go in for your second set with the same weight and then you just rip it up off the floor. And it's like, oh, now the second set. It's like, you know what? I wasn't queued up enough in that first set. And I think that the longer we train, the more intensity we harness, the more we can get out of the last, the least or last, I'm sorry. And I mean, I know that for myself at like my ultimate best as of a couple of years ago, you know, my working sets for a chest press might be four for an entire workout. But still took me an hour plus to do that workout because I had to warm up and then do feeder sets to get into it, you know? Well, these are the explanations that one. Right. Just because I don't think we clarified yet like, you know, working sets. For example, because, you know, I think early on someone writes you a program, you're one year into training and it says four sets of eight to twelve. And then next exercise, you know, four sets of 10 to 12 or whatever, it might be, right? Yeah. And I think what I'm getting at is here, like, what are we counting as working sets? Because I did like today and I probably did a total of seven, but I would consider seven working sets, right? And whereas someone else might say, okay, well, you did three sets of eight before you did your working set on that hacksquad. Yeah. Whereas like I'm not interpreting that as a set. For me, those are just acclimation. Those are like all the stuff we're talking about, making sure my joints are working right, making sure my nervous system is getting fired up at each level as we increase the weight. So I think like, and this comes with experience and it comes with time. Right? Like, you don't know this the first year you go to the gym. Very few people do. And I didn't, I obviously didn't know it. So I think it comes down to like, we need a really established, like, what is a working set, right? And mine might be a little different than somebody else. This is an example. My working sets are different from, I've deferred, excuse me, from John's. John had this, I'm, I'm wrong, Andrew, but John had the thing where if it's more, it's getting up into the area of 70 to 80% and he's going to count the working set. I am way too black and white for that. And I train in a way that I don't count working sets unless they're everything I can get. So if I open on sex, especially now, because I have this in my brain that my knee is 100% even though it is, I will do six or eight sets of hacks before I'm ready to go. I have a pump where people would be taken off long before I do, but when two plates is feeling heavy until I get warm and then I go to three, then I go to three and a half and I go to four, then I'm ready to go. And again, you touched on this guy. So now just warming up the physical component. It's the CNS. It's the warming up of your brain. It's getting your brain programmed as well. So where do you count those? And everybody will be different. But here's the important part. You can have different approaches to what the working sets are. As long as it's consistent from work out to work out in week to week, because you have to have the same way to measure the volume that you're using. So figure out before you figure out at some point, set the parameters as far as what your working sets are and then you know how to count them versus well, that was kind of a warm up, that was not a warm up, this one's warm, that one's not. Yeah. So like, okay, I can't agree more. So this comes down then. So we're looking at how many working sets do you need? How do we figure that out, skip? I mean, I'm all four starting with 12, you know, or 10, or 9, or whatever. And I think anywhere in that range is a good place to say, okay, have at it, see how you do. But then what does see how you do? What does that mean? How do we figure out, like, did I need more? Did I need less? Right. Married of variables, because then we can get into things like soreness and, you know, his soness engaged as far as, is it an accurate gauge as far as, you know, the stimulus to produce growth for progression and things like that. And we know that it's not yet at the same time, we all want to be sore to some degree after we're done training muscle group because that's some indication. I've always said that I think crippling sorness is very, very counter productive. It is going to take a lot longer to recover. You should have a little bit of sorness. It should be there roughly at that 20 hour, 24 hour mark, everybody's going to be a little different. And then it should peak at some point after that 30 hour and then it should start to dissipate relatively quickly. The longer it hangs on, if you hear someone say, or if you're listening and you're thinking, well, my legs will be sore for three days. If a client tells me that, I'm like, right there, your volume and or intensity is just too high. So it's a good idea to start with the parameters. Don't get me wrong. But what what I don't think is a good idea. And this was trying to explain to my clients that you can't stay locked into those parameters. This is an example. If you have destroyed a muscle group and you still are saying, well, but I still have two exercises to go or I have one exercise to go. No, you don't because then it becomes just wasted work and wasted work, Zack shoe and basically deoptimizes for lack of a better word, your recovery ability, you're tapping into your recovery ability at that point because you're doing work that isn't necessary. So there's a lot of very, absolutely. And I was thinking the same thing, I just hate to say that word. But I like that you did when we understand. I like that you didn't because you was playing, but we all know what it means. Yeah. Hey, what's up, guys? I want to do a quick and prompt to add for true nutrition. So as I've mentioned before, I've used true nutrition products long before they advertise with their programming and listen, these are still the products I used today. These are things, all these things here, these are things that I've bought with my own money and there's more down here. So you know, flat out, if I'm going to buy a supplement, I buy these things from true nutrition. I buy them with my own money. So for what it's worth, it's not just something that we're like taking money for in the past and these are all products that we believe in. The story about this, when she uses the P protein, I sell it. I prefer the teams get blend, but all this stuff. Hydro-ized beef collagen, I use this stuff every freaking day. So if you want to support our programming and get some great supplements, use our code thank, at true nutrition. Yeah. So I don't know what it's like. I guess it's a question that is for somebody. But I guess the question is, because I know we've all been there where, let's say we had a plan or a head, we were going to do four exercises for chest, right? Maybe two or three working sets per exercise. And we get to our third exercise. We do one set and we're like, I think my chest is good. I think I accomplished everything I really wanted to accomplish today. But then how do you override that? But I was going to do four exercises. I'm doing less than I should be doing. How do we, I guess how do we program that in and how do we, I guess, coach clients with that? That's good question. Right? I think that contract out force is a huge one. A lot of people gauge their workouts and whether they're productive, whether they can do more work or do an extra exercise based on pump. And I don't think that's a very good idea because there are plenty of people. I'm one of those that I can do more work. And I can get a better pump because I'll get it in a different area of the muscle. I can destroy my legs. But if I haven't done something that's rectus, she may say dominant, then I can go and I can get a better pump from doing Sissy squats. And I don't need to do that. There's been enough, you're looking for a stimulus and then you're looking to get your ass out of there. The stimulus for growth and then get out. Here's even a better way to put it. There's the amount of work that is the stimulus that you need to provide for the adaptation to grow. And then there's the amount of work you can actually do. And the amount of work you can actually do is what we tend to focus on in the gym when that isn't where I can do more. I don't know how many times have you heard clients say, but I just I left. I felt like I could do more. It's not about what you feel like you can do. That's what gets us in a trouble. That's what starts to tap our recovery resources because being able to do the work, again, it turns into or has the potential to be, again, jump volume for lack of a better label. And it is a good label because we all know what that means. So if you come away from a workout and you're ridiculously sore, they're actually can even go the other way. Let me stop because this is what I do. I end up sending or I cut myself off. But if you're ridiculously sore, that's an indication right there that your volume is too high. So you can cut it back from there in the next session and see. There's also the component of if you're not sore at all. And you there's no there's no. And then you have to weigh that out with the progression. Did you come back the next time you go in and train the muscle group and there was progression? If you're not sore and you come back in and you're able to progress. Yeah. I mean, looks, increasing strength within bodybuilding rep ranges is progression. It's a micro gauge or a tool to be able to tell in the very, very short term whether you're growing. There's no one out there who's going to get stronger within bodybuilding rep ranges and not be producing hypertrophy. You can get stronger in power lifting bodybuilding rep ranges and arguably not produce hypertrophy. But it's not going to happen in bodybuilding rep ranges. To answer Andrew's question, one of my thoughts would be how do you know to stop early would be it's easy for me if I'm doing progressive overload. Because I may do a top set, back offset. I know what's really popular now. I really like that. But let's say I do that and let's say I get everything I can. I can ask myself, can I go back in and do what I just did again? Am I going to be able to achieve that again? And if I'm not, then I know that okay, then I'm going to hit a back offset. I'm going to call it good. And that back offset is probably going to be like reduce 10% when Jordan was rating our plans for a while for like at six months or so. That's what he had suggested was drop 10% if you can't get that again and get as many reps as you can. And I like that. I like that back offset because now there's just a little bit less weight so you can control it even more. You know what I mean? You can really feel like I am going to own this and then you get to rep for and you're like, oh my god. You know what I mean? Because you're using even more control in before. And I know by the time I'm done with that set, okay, I'm going to move on from here. I always prefer the back offset versus the top set because I feel like you've heightened your level of neurological awareness to what your mind and muscle have completely like talked and they've completely, I guess, amplified to the top level. Now you're bringing it back down a little bit and just like you said Scott, you can exercise slightly better control. And then you can just really feel the sets with more, yeah, feel the set with all the more repetitions. I always enjoy the back offset better than the top sets. Top sets you're kind of like, I go. You know, it's because oftentimes with the top set, you're using a little bit more weight than you ever had before. So there's a little bit of fear in your head of like, okay, don't hurt me thing, don't tear anything, don't, you know what I mean? Stress, yeah. A little bit more stress mentally. Yeah. Okay, you know you've already hit that top set. So now we're back and after just a little bit. And now we can just kind of go along for the ride and really feel it. And the dumbbells might only be five pounds lighter, you know, but you're 10 pounds lighter. But you do, you mentally, you're like, okay, I got this and no problem, you know. And you get too much of the other way. I mean, I'm trying it much harder. I don't like back offset. When not. That's great. I'm, apparently I'm very proud of myself that I am the odd man out this time. Okay. I'll tell you why. Because my training is a little bit different because it's not to imply that you guys aren't, you know, worried about injury and things too. I'm just probably a little bit more worried about it. So my first set, my working set, and I do this right now. I do two working sets, practice size is typically what I do. If I get in and it's just, I mean, what I call the green room, that's a surfer reference of riding a perfect wave and everything, you know, nothing could be better with the set than I'm out in one, but it doesn't happen very often. But my reps on my first working set, I almost always am shooting for 15. There's not matter what it is. So that allows me to increase the way. Sometimes I'll stay. It just depends on the feel for that day. Sometimes I'll stay at the weight, but if I allow myself the room to increase from there and if my reps happen to drop, I'm not as prone to having an injury or a tweak because I'm pretty damn warm and I've already hit that same movement intensely pretty much to failure. When I say pretty much to failure, I go until I'm not going to get another, I know full while I'm not going to get another rep with the form that I expect. What out there may think, well, you don't know until you try. And my argument with one hand, I would say, okay, on the other hand, I would say I've been training for a long time. I'm pretty damn sure that I know that I'm not going to get another rep. When the last rep will be insurance, I can stick complete. You're ensuring that you're going to be able to lift another day though, too, with that mentality. Absolutely. Sure. By doing something that maybe we would have done when we were younger, that we would probably consider not so smart today. You're ensuring that you're going to be able to continue bodybuilding longer term. And I think we got to take that into the equation, especially when you're north of 30, 35. Yeah. Let me ask you guys, if you know you're getting your last rep, I try to explain this to clients sometimes. And if they're new, relatively new people to bodybuilding and to working out, they, I don't think they really grasp this, but people who have trained for a long time, they get this. I know it's my last rep. I'm pacing it and I'm slowing it down. I will take it. So I'll be halfway. I'll be like, oh, yeah. And I'll take that. Just slow as I can take it. Finish it. I'll have half absolutely. The last half for the last two thirds of the rep. And I said that, assuming that you, you guys did the same thing. Yeah, you'll see somebody who does that last rep at, say, dumbbell press in the negative. They just drop them. I wouldn't be mad. Okay, that negative and get as much out of it as you can. Sure. You know? Oh, yeah. Would you say it might even be considered your best rep, if someone was observing you? It would certainly be slower. Because that is a, that's something that if someone were to watch a set of my, the form, the first rep will always look like the last rep. That I've always said other than speed and tempo. Yeah. That doesn't mean that I'm whipping them out to begin with, but they do they get slower as I go than the last one or two. Might be a breath in there and they're moving slower. Anybody who would see me in a set would think, I didn't think he was going to get that last rep. I don't think anybody would say, I think you had another one in it. And that's the reason in slowing it down. And there's one more thing I want to add that I think is important because I cut myself off earlier when I was talking about the pump. A lot of people gauge the pump when what you want to gauge is the muscular contraction. If you're starting to lose the ability for that muscle to contract, you're just on borrowed time, you're, you're, you're just wasting it. So then the question becomes, well, what does that mean? Contract that muscle if it's your chest, crunch your chest. If it's not contracting, like you're just trying to contract it and it just feels even notes pumped, it feels soft and there's not a strong contraction. You don't have much left. There's just not going to be much left in there. Another indicator that is very black in the way is if you're benching and you're seven or eight reps and you feel like I can get three or four more and you literally all the sudden can barely get one. There's your side. Yeah. Yeah. That's huge. And if you're not able to flex and contract anymore, that's the sign too. Your set's about over, right? Like at that point, you know, if you, because there comes a point, like then I also get asked this, I get asked to like, well, how do I know what failure really is? And I feel like failure is when I can't use the target muscle to move the weight anymore. And you might want to let it slip that last couple reps. You know, like, okay, I feel I'm getting more, you know, triceps out of this. Or what, you know, I feel I'm getting more shoulders out of this. You might be able to get a little bit more of that, but I'm really going to try to keep it in that target muscle as much as I can for at least like, we'll say eight out of ten reps. You know? Oh, yeah. But let me add in another layer to this, you know, because we're talking about like, you know, a basic, I think we threw out 12 repetitions per body part. Sorry, 12 sets per body part, right? Yeah. As like a blanket, maybe first time kind of think, how do we program, say, we're more advanced, or something that's more advanced? Let's say they've got a crazy back. And, but they're shoulders are really weak, or they've got a really good chest and their shoulders are really weak. How do we taper the volume? Let's say if they're doing a push day to use a chest and shoulders as an example, how would we taper volume? Would like, if their chest is superior, and we're talking like it's like a great day, like Arnold Schwarzenegger type chest, but their deltoids, especially their front deltoids, are just kind of lacking. How would we maybe, what would we try to optimize and maybe change volume and even frequency of training during the week, you know, to address that body part? I got something. But go for it. I was just going to say, because I, in the last few years, I've really gotten more interested in frequency. Let's take a guy who is, say he has exceptional legs. You know that guy. He's got crazy legs and then up top, like lower body looks like he's a really good light heavyweight, maybe even a heavyweight, and upper body looks like a middleweight. That guy, and he's probably like really nasty in the gym on his leg day too. He's doing everything. You know, like his leg day, he lives for. I might, if we're, say, doing like, we might only train lower body once a week then, but maybe like a push pull legs, push pull repeat type program for instance, you know, just giving you an example of how we might do less volume for legs, because we, you know, like skip brought up the, you know, the idea of we only have so much recovery, you know, if we're giving a lot of recovery ability to lower body when we don't need to, we could potentially be taking away from being able to train upper body, like Andrea Watson for instance, you know, she was in power lifting before she got into body building, then she competed in figure. Her back was a really good body part, then she moved to bikini and she really didn't need to train back so much anymore. In fact, like from most of your back poses are just looking at your glutes, like your hair is little literally, which kind of irritates me. And you, I feel like they should push their hair out of the way and show the, the back. But I guess that's a different podcast. I'd like to see the back muscle. But that said, we shifted away from back training because she really needed to grow glutes. She really needed to grow lower body. So it's like, why put a bunch of effort into back training and in her case, we literally had her doing like a couple back exercises per week in order to give more recovery to the lower body. That point. I've got to get a raise. Well, I was going to say just kind of echo that I've got a guy who up in Alaska, his quads are wacky. I mean, they're wild, right? Turns around from the back, the hamstrings are kind of lacking. So we literally do not have any quad-focused work in his program. We pulled it out about, I want to say eight or ten months ago and his quads have not come down at all. Are they? We do like workout. Yeah. So you're still doing compound movements, but with hamstrings. Everything is always. Everything is biased towards hamstrings. So you know, like pressed. Yeah. You know that his quads are still getting activated. I guess I just wanted to throw that in there. You know they are. But I don't know. And we have in terms of, in terms of exercise selection, everything is made. The decision is made for exercise selection based off his hamstrings. Yeah. And he's absolutely still getting a little bit of quad. But there is, he hasn't done a leg extension. Yeah. Probably two years. He hasn't done a close stance on anything. Ten years. Probably two or three. Oh, I'm telling you, man. Like his quads are like wacky. Like he's got like almost pro level quads. And I think if he was training them right now, they, it would be, it would be one of those like, um, trying to think of an example. It almost looked like, when you see some of those guys that really juice their arms up with, um, like, like, all stuff. Yeah. But they got like, they don't train their chests. They don't train like anything else. So they just got these huge arms or, or they juice up their chest and they don't train anything else. It's almost like that. And it's pretty wild. But yeah, just, I just wanted to echo your point, um, which is kind of funny because he loves training legs too. Right? Because yeah. Obviously it's a good body party wants to see him fall a blood. But if I feel it's good too, like, you know what? You get that awesome connection. There's a reason that muscle is big. You know what I mean? He's getting on an awesome connection to him. So yeah. Or he picked his parents really well. I mean, I'm not trying to take anything away from work ethic. I'm just saying sometimes we are gifted with a really good body part. Oh, he's just for whatever reason. Don't for sure. Okay. For sure. But also then if you have that good body part, you can be feel good. I feel good. Sure. Oh, I don't know. I mean, both things can be true. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. That's a good point. As we were talking about. What I was my hamstring started cramping like, please, because I trained like just two and a half hours ago. And I don't know if you guys saw him. And you still have a seat on him. Yeah. Well, the one thing I was going to add, as far as, well, let's just say this. One of the first things I would do with someone who is struggling with a body part is I'm going to look at what they're, and I think you guys would do the same thing. You're going to look at what they're already doing. Yeah. So as an example, and I tend to, I tend to air on this side first. I have found in my experience that a lot of times when a muscle isn't growing well for a client, whether they're, they've been with me for a while or they have just come to me. Nine out of ten times they're overtrain me because they've already come to the conclusion that it's not, they didn't need to talk to me to figure out that it wasn't growing. They've been battling with it. And nine out of ten times, nine and a half out of ten, closer to ten, people tend to add more work. It's body builders. We'd more as better. So if it's not working, I'm going to train it with more volume. Oh, that's not working. So I'm going to train it more frequently. When in reality, what you might be doing, and this happens sometimes when people have weak body parts, that body part doesn't recover as quickly. So what you're doing is counterproductive by increasing the volume, increasing the frequency, or intensity frequency, or volume. So the first thing I like to do, unless they're just doing very infrequent training, low volume training, is I'm going to pull back. I'm going to pull back and see if resting the muscle actually allows it to finally grow. And the recovery is starting to get optimized. Arms are a good example. I don't know how many times I've heard clients say, well, I just, I've done everything for my arms. And this is what I'm doing. And I just can't get them to grow. And then I change to having them train arms every other week, which is very difficult to get somebody to do when they have lagging arms, especially a guy because, you know, we want good arms. We want good everything. The arms are just one of those things. And then it takes a little while, takes a few weeks. And then they go, well, yeah, I am up, you know, five pounds, which is another point. When you progress with arms, you don't jump very much. Your strength doesn't go up a lot. You're not seeing these obvious progressions like you do with bench squat dead. So pulling back sometimes helps too. But my point is just that I will take a look at what they're doing. And sometimes, literally, do exactly the opposite. Yeah, yeah, that makes sense, man. Got anything else on that one, Andrew? No, I think we covered it. I mean, we, the three of us could sit around and talk about training in scenarios for three, four, five hours. Right? I mean, before we even get on the show, we, we're talking about different training things like this. We should actually turn the, turn the recording on before we even start. Right? We cover like six different training topics of our own, but right? No, I think we covered, I think we covered the volume frequency kind of thing pretty well. All right, cool. Well, let's wrap this episode up, guys. We're doing multiple episodes a week now. So stay tuned for more. Go to bodybeary.com to reach out to Andrew. Team skip that calm, hit skip up for coaching there. McNally diets at gmail.com. I'm not taking clients for the moment, but I will by the time this episode comes back out. I took like three weeks off, taking new clients with all the travel. But things are back to normal. We appreciate you guys tuning in and we'll see you soon.

Just this is a good look. You woke up this morning perfect. There's wake up tomorrow looking like this. Is that maybe all a guy like Samson needs? He doesn't need to be ordered around to the ground. He can see himself as wife can go. He looked better last week. Maybe that's all he needs. Hey everybody. Welcome to another episode of It's Just Body Building. Your host Big Ron Parlo here. Dusty Han Shah. The producer Scott McNalley. Like share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Ring the bell and remember I am mutant.com. Go to I am mutant.com. Get your rights of surge. Get your all in and everyone should get on the gear. Dusty 20 big Ron 20 if you want to save money. Who doesn't want to save money? Who doesn't want to save money? Are you done? If you're not dumb, then use the code. Yeah. And you know why you need to save money. You know what? Ron, why do you need to save money? You can't. You can spill a coffee cup this size all over your brand new laptop and completely fry it and then you got to go buy a new laptop. Right. You don't want to need to spend another two grand on a new laptop. If you haven't saved 20% on a hundred dollar protein. Yeah. Basically that double paper itself. Yeah. Yeah. More or less. I'm still very bitter about yesterday guys. I bought a Macbook air probably like not quite two years ago. Went in, bought it. You know, got the best one. Of course. Spent the money. And I, here's my little quick little take for removing the main topic. They don't make things like the used to. I had an old Macbook. I had an old Macbook. And I spilled like full shakers of water on it. All the time. Green times. Three times. And I just tip to upside down. Put a fan on it. Let it dry for a whole day. Fired right back up. All three times. The only exception was a third time the battery was fried. I had to get a new battery for 600 bucks. But you could remove the battery and put the new one in. Yeah. We've got the new Macbooks. Can't can't remove nothing can open them. It's just and it's totally fried like not even nothing like it's dead. So I'm going to take it in. When I get back, I leave for England in a few hours. I'm going to take it in. I'm going to get back. But let them tell me that it's over. Right. It's not over. Well, they need closure. You need closure. I've heard we're writing them open the back and look at the mats and go. Yeah. She had a good life. And then not really. She didn't make it two years old. Yeah. But that's what you say. It's like, you know, computers nowadays. It's basically garbage at this point, right? Yeah. You know, I buy a Mac. And then they, I get a message from from Apple. Telling me that I need to buy another Mac like two weeks later. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. But we got a new one. I had all my passwords. We're all like fingerprint. You know, it was just an easy life. I had to borrow Emily's laptop today. She didn't have Google Chrome. I had to don't get download Chrome. I had to do the whole thing. Oh. Okay. Goose. Who's wife is getting them ready for the Arnold boys. You know, they all said that there was going to be a big change in the coaching. But let's be honest, who was harder on you than your own wife? Oh, yeah. I mean, that's going to be a good play. I got a lot to say. I got a lot to say. Yeah. The, this is, uh, the, if you think back to Debbie Yates, Debbie Yates was kind of like, maybe the original uncredited wife guru. You know what I mean? There are many times where Dorian said the only person that really knew what he looked like was his wife and sometimes his carer practic. Right? Just a different age. He wasn't, you know, posted everywhere. And then when guys had the gym didn't even see him all the time. Yeah. Right. And then we got hauling said telling us that, you know, his wife's kind of, this is him and his wife for this show. And then Samson and Milo's part ways. And now it's Samson and his wife. So is this a British bodybuilding thing? Is it a Milo's thing? Does Milo send them to their wives? Hmm. Hmm. Makes you wonder what this Jamie. Um, free. Yeah. Yeah. Great. I don't know what's going on. What do you think? Well, the first thing that I wanted to cover is now all of your years of hard work to become an Olympia coach or out the window. She didn't have a weekend. Oh, you had to do it. Yeah. It was Mary a good bodybuilder. I got this. Yeah. And if you move up one placing, she's the best guru on the planet. Yeah. Just like that. Just like that. Because one placing is pretty high at that point. Better than you ever done. Those are, yeah. Yeah. I might have to call his wife for Nicky after this. I mean, yeah. It's not too late to call her now. There's the. There's what it comes down to. I, this is what I think. There's a lot of different types of gurus. You know what I mean? The whole guru where it's like, first of all kind of a joke. We're that we use, right? Yeah. You know. But there's all these different types of gurus that kind of maintain all these different levels of control over their athletes. Yeah. You know, some guys are spreadsheets. Your insulin's at 10.05. Your next meal that 10.25. And then you take vitamin B at 11.06. And then you take a this and that like there's gurus out there that that's that's how it works. And then there's gurus that are like. See what your pictures look like Saturday and they just. I feel like this is a girl's name. You're looking at little flat. You're looking a little flat. Or, you know, the old. Which of your supplements do you know a real? Yeah. Let's just take more of those. Just take more of those. Don't worry about the rest. Don't worry about the rest. Do you think that we'll start seeing pictures of Samsung hit and shots with her in the background? You know. Right. Right. If she's a true guru, she has. Well, hey, she might just be the one picking them right. It might just be so old to go that she's just taking the shots. You know, maybe occasionally she drops one of these in front of the lens like just to show that she's there. You know. Yeah. Yeah. Make sure the people know. You got to get your credits to get more clients. And it makes you wonder, it makes you wonder like at that level does a guy need to be told to eat a meal at six p.m. Instead of six 30 p.m. Or does he just need to be told, this is a good look. Keep this going. Yeah. Like just this is a good look. You woke up this morning. Perfect. It's wake up tomorrow looking like this. Is that maybe all a guy like Samsung needs? He doesn't. He doesn't need to be ordered around to the ground. He can see himself as wife can go. He looked better last week. Maybe that's all they need. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, all kidding aside, I think that that's where you really run into at some point is a lot of times people over complicate things at the higher level. You know, I mean, think about it. You work with a bunch of local guys and then all of a sudden the Mr. Olympio calls up and wants you to bring him in. I think people start doing weird shit because they feel like they need to to like make it make their mark with something like that. Win in reality, I look at coaching top guys like being a fourth line NHL player like your job is just not lose the game. You don't need to win it. Yeah. Right. Just don't mess it up. You'll be fine. I mean, right. You're on a team with Connor McDavid. You're like, just don't get the Poxythe other team or we're fine. Yeah. You just need one minute to breathe. Then you can let him go in the game again. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. Scott, what's your take on that? Levels of guruing. Yeah. I'll be interested to see what happens. And I can just say out of my own experience that the guys who are super elite, that they are they're easier to coach, they're harder to mess up. But then also at that level. Like I was just looking at some of the cell phone footage I took from the Arnold Ohio. And I remember thinking to myself, while I was watching that, oh, this is definitely hotty. Like I see how do you beating Samson. And I feel like I was even kind of critical of Samson because I saw those differences. I'm watching that footage back and I'm like, Jesus, these guys are both amazing. Like the differences between first and second place are so small. So those tiny nuances, you know, I think it's easy to make Samson look great. But to get him to look his ultimate best consistently, I don't know. We'll see. We'll see what happens. But here's what I think. One thing is for sure. Samson seems confident with this idea. So that means he's going to go into it relaxed, right? And if he can go into this relaxed, it's his wife. Who else in the world supports you more than your significant other? You know what I mean? So I think he's going to go into this feeling really confident in relaxed. He's going to be on home turf now being in the UK. I think this could go, I mean, obviously could go really good for him. But with this whole set up, I think I just sense low stress. That's what I get out of this. Yeah. What did he actually say? I know he did a couple of videos. Like I kind of got lost and there was a few videos he put out about it. What was his final word about him and me, Rose Parting? Just, you know, we did our best. It's time to move on. I didn't see the most recent video. I saw, I watched a couple reviews of it though. And that was basically the deal that he wasn't sure where he's going to go to next for coaching, but at least for right now, he was going to lean into his wife helping him. And yeah, she's helped him in the past and that they've been a really team together. He's did their he helped him for like two shows, two of his previous shows or whatever. So, yeah, I think it would be very hard to come into a top coach in, you know, what nine days, 12 days, whatever it was. Like if he called me and so that I wanted to get me ready for the next Arnold, 12 days later, I'm like, I feel like I could only go bad for me. Like, yeah, I don't have any data on how you got from your start point to the show for sure. I don't even have visual data on did anything go wrong. I mean, I think that's one thing, you know, I don't know, like you said, because I haven't seen why they're parting ways. But I feel like, Holly was not beatable. I don't think he missed. Yeah. I thought he looked the best he'd ever looked. It sounded like he thought it was the best he ever looked. So, you know, I wouldn't want to touch that because I feel like as a coach the only way I can go is down. Right. That said, though, if there was a guy making it do it, then cool. And so it's like, it does make sense. I'm saying, just stick with your wife. She does have all that data. And let's also keep in mind, she's not coaching him. She's helping him do this. Like, it's not like she's making all of the decisions. Ron wants me to look at that bike for something. Um, look, look at my bike right now. So I think it's a good fit as long as they can, you know, just execute because this is what you run into with all clients, right? Is, is, can you stay stress free and just execute the plan? So we'll see. I'm excited to see. And I think I might actually go to this show this time. So who knows? Let's wear the gym. You never know. I might. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It might just be a matter of her saying, listen, you looked a better. You looked better a week out. Like, all this stuff we did like you look better a week out us taking pictures every morning. And then she's she's just going to say, yes, that's it or no, that's not it yet. Yeah. Like, you know, who she might that might just be it. And he's just going to tweak things until she goes, there it is. Do you remember Mark Dougdoh did that for the Olympia one year? They did a crap load. Sorry, just couldn't be a little careful. You're so good with this dusty. You're like a pro. And I dropped one earlier, but anyways, so he was just eating and eating and then he would pose in his wife Christina was like, no, not yet. And just kept going and then she was like, yeah, I think that's it. And then he annihilated. It was the best he ever looked. Now I like that kind of loading if you haven't done it before because they were guessing. And they never got it again. But in that attempt, that was exactly what she was doing wrong was just going. Now, a little more. Yeah. That's my screen. Yeah. That's no no. Yeah. You're not there. Two more red finds. There we go. Two more red finds. So sometimes that like that just take all the noise and the numbers completely remove them and just go, yeah, that's the look that I was seeing that morning that you looked amazing. That's it right there. And that's all you need. Just to know that that's okay. That's the look that we were looking for was Tuesday morning a week out. And I'll just move that to Saturday. You know what I mean? So it could just be that simple. You know, oh, never know. Maybe she's got spreadsheets on the fridge. Could be that could be she's just a couple of rare claws. Little, little Ron part low ask. She's maybe she's like, you need three different lengths of insulin. Yeah. How amazing would that be next thing you know? It's like most intricate. What did you try to say? I've ever seen. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Then five more later. I took off. Then plus there's something about it, but something about them being British. Like it just like takes me back to like how simple the prep could be. You know, I just say a Dorian, right? Like no, no one's on. Yeah. No, no, no, no post no pictures posted anywhere. Like two people in the whole world knew they look like. You know what I mean? I mean, the week he didn't even send pictures to the leaders half the time. They're paying his pain is contract even though he looked like most of the time. They had to hound him that send out one set that went viral, you know, that one set. They published that were crazy. Once his jokes bones started coming through the skin, they're like, it's fine. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm excited. I'm excited. I'm excited. I'll take a look. I hope that it's slaves just because that would be great story. I know. I'll only nail that would be awesome. All the coaches are going to have to compete with AI. And wives. I'll tell you guys you guys give me a post off though. Never mind. Seeing that video, he pulled out when he was saying, hey, I'm going to the hospital. Andrew and I did a little reaction to that by the way. And I know that guy saw that. Thanks for your comments and everything seeing that video though. I'll be honest, I hadn't like knowing a lot about Samsung as a human being, as a person. I've known him as a guy on stage. And I've heard so many people tell me about the great interactions they've had with him. And people over the weekend too were saying, like, oh, man, he made sure to sign everybody's stuff. He took his time. He talked to everyone after seeing that video. I'm like a super fan of Samsung now, seeing the way that he reacted, seeing the way that he felt and just seeing his passion for bodybuilding. Because I could, you know, he kind of went off about how there were some people who were talking negatively about him. And I didn't see any of that stuff. But he was like, man, this isn't what I signed up for. Like this isn't what bodybuilding is about to me. He's like, and if this, and of course, he was in a real downspotted the time. But just listening to that, I was like, yeah, man, I know exactly where he's coming from. Like, he loves the sport. He absolutely loves the sport. And it turns out he's really good at it too. I could. Yeah. I can't say that I, you know, I've never been a bigger fan of and more excited about somebody going into this next Arnold. No. Yeah, it's going to be a great show. I can't wait to get there. I leave today at 7 p.m. And it's going to be another great trip to England. So I'm excited. I'm excited to take you by the way for a stage appearance. I don't know if you saw that. No, they, yeah, they, they were like, hey, we need some people to speak on the stage at the show. And I was like, run and I'll do it. What? Yeah, you're in. What are you guys doing? You know how they do like to interview us at the expo. Okay. And I was like, wrongs asleep. He's not able to answer. So I'll take care of this. So there we go. Oh, okay. Just jump right in. Oh, that's so cool. Throw my action out in there. It's fine that I get to answer for Ron. We're on that husband wife level, not sure which which, but whatever. I guess I'm, I guess I'm giving it, I guess I'm speaking at the Arnold. Listen, anybody who is watching this, if you guys are there, shoot video, send it to me. Because I want to see the stuff and share with everybody else. Well, I was kind of hoping for like, and it's just bodybuilding two thirds moment. You know, because they said they were doing like a couple people or one on one. I was like, we're in. Yeah, yeah. She's not awake to defend himself. Oh, no. You know, who's doing the interviewing? Don't know. I was thinking about that. Jamie. Um, which over the whole thing. Well, I guess you know, you know, did it a couple times. Remember back when you got like awesome. It was, you know, well, I made the and he just went at people. But remember he had Phil Heath on and he made Phil take a shirt off and he kind of caved and took a shirt off. And then Dino starts calling poses front double by a step. Phil's like, Phil's like off season. Not even he's like, so you can't like not though. Do you know, does it get everybody? I do know what I mean. I know for now. Seven weeks out from a show. I'm in the gym like covered up and he's like, let me take a peek. So I like show him a little of the court. He just come here and he calls the entire gym over. Yes. There's people. I'm like, oh, we're doing this. We've got a legend in the gym. Yeah, he used that word really loosely with people like me. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm excited for it. It'll be good. Okay. Well, I guess I'm speaking. No, there you go. I'll do that. We'll do that. We'll do that. Do we have, do we have some cues? We get some questions, don't we? Yes, we have a bunch of stuff including one from Patreon. So the question is, has anyone ever said something to you during your bodybuilding career that lived rent free in your brain for way too long? Like a judge or coach or a training partner? I would, there's, I think I'm pretty good at not having people live rent free in my head. I'm pretty good at that. But I do remember two things that judges said to me that I was like, really? And then I never forgot them. So like maybe they didn't live in my head, but I never forgot them. The one was, I was like my seven, three eighth nationals and I'd been second to bunch of times, right? And I saw one of the judges backstage after the morning show. And I was very happy with how I looked. I thought I had a great chance at winning. I had guys coming up to me backstage going, this is your year. You look crazy. This is the best you've looked. That sort of thing. I had people saying that to me. So I was very confident. I was like, okay, it's going to be a great show. And I honestly thought I had prejudging. They put me in the middle for a while, they moved me out, they moved me back. So I was like, I think I got prejudging. Like I was pretty confident. And I walked past this one judge and he goes, hey, you look amazing today. And I go, thanks, it goes, just not quite enough. I walked away. And I was like, good enough, Ron. And I was like, oh, so is that just him talking? Like, is that just his score sheet, right? Like, that's only one judge, right? So there's seven judges. So I'm still like shit. But I got second that night by one point. Do his client. And no, no, no. No, wasn't. But I got second that night. And I just remember like, I remember thinking that judge was such an unprofessional idiot for saying that to me. Like I was really, I wasn't mad at him for putting me second. I wasn't mad that I lost. I was mad that he like ruined my, like he said that to me. Like you don't say that to a competitor at that level after the morning show. Like, yeah. Like what are you doing? Like who the hell do you think you are? You're, you don't even know the other scores. You just know your score. Like why would you do that? I can't imagine a judge at that level thinking that it's okay, especially like it's one thing that guy was like 15th and, you know, he says, oh man, I'm just glad to be here. And you go, yeah, man, you just need to improve. You know, that's different. But like I'd been in front of this guy six times at that point. And he knew what was going on. He knew what it's like, you know, you're there to turn pro and it's very competitive. And I just couldn't believe he said that to me. I just said, you're such a dick, like you're such not even a dick. You're in, you're in, you're an idiot. You're an idiot because because, you're already dead. Yeah, yeah, you just don't. You don't say that to someone at that level. Like I can't imagine doing that. And I just, I thought that, I, I never, I lost your specter that guy. I never respected him again as a judge. I always told people that guys fucking moron. I told, I said that all the time. And then eventually he disappeared. Okay, I was going to ask what happened to him. Yeah, you can't say that. Don't say what happened, Ron, just to decide. And then, and then there's one more thing. Sorry, I was going to keep it safe. This is going out publicly. Don't worry, buddy. He's taking care of it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He's not around anymore. There was one more thing. I remember I, I'd done like 10 national at this point because I did way too many. I did 13. And I think it was like near the end. And I'd already won my class and I'd been really close to turn in pro a couple of times. And it was starting to get to me, you know. And I went to another show. It was like a national figure show or something. And the same judges were there, right? This is the old, old school judges. And the head judges like, oh, hey, Ron, good to see you. And I'm like, good. Yeah, hey, good to see you too. And she goes, oh, yeah, you know, you had a really tough second that your last show there. That was very close. And there's had a couple that were one point, right? So I was like, yeah, that was tough one. And she's like, but you know what? We're so happy to see you back. We never want you to leave. You're just, it's so great to have you in that class. I mean, you, you just, you just, you just embody the super heavies. And we just we never want you to leave. You just want to leave that. And I just remember thinking like, didn't know what you sounded like, a absolute moron right now. Like, I just, I think you're an idiot. Like, you don't know what I mean? I just, again, again, this is a greatest question ever. I love this. I'm going to do. We do. I thought it was good to be. I don't dare anymore. This people would know awareness of who they're talking to or what they're saying or what's coming out of their mouth. It just, I don't know. I just, people. Gronsor, gronsor, grons, that's funny because like Ron is still heated about his. But I'm thankful for the two occasions. Okay. And one was prior to my actual bodybuilding, but I was training. And I was trying to get big, you know. And my wife at the time and I, we went to Vegas to see her grandparents. And I hadn't seen him in a while. And I had also kind of been busy. Maybe I wasn't eating quite as much some supposed to. And I walked in the door and grandma looked at me. I was like, oh my God, did you get sick? He looks so small. I mean, I was like on the streets of Vegas looking for test. I was eating everything in sight that day. I mean, you want to tell us something that stuck with me? Because the thing is, is grandparents are like children. They don't lie. She wasn't being mean. I just know terrible, small and sick. And it all just came out as soon as I opened the door. So yeah, that was the first one. And it's funny, but I actually just told a friend about that yesterday. The coincidentally, because I literally, I don't think it ever missed a meal after that. That was a painful one. You know, you ever get like sick. And I'm like this food has to go back down. Grandma's going to abuse me. So there was that one. But then during my career, the only thing, you didn't live rent free, but definitely changed my view of importance of something was, I can't remember the year. It's been too many years. But I want to say 13 USA's, one of the judges after pre-judging, looked me dead in the face and said, your tan cost you. And that one hurt. Because you do everything. And you nail it. And he was like, yeah, your tan cost you. I know what you look like, but we can't see it. Mm. And it was bad. And so yeah, that's what this is my little mother-of-look with son-raise, everyone. Because after that, I literally used liquid son-raise for everything. And my tan was always perfect. And it was, it was, I look like muddy on stage. And I was always disciplined. I got tan before the show, my skin itself, did all the things, did the skin, perhaps, all that. But yeah, the bad tan. And he didn't say I was going to win or anything, but he did say it cost me. And that's just one of those deals where, you know, if you do a prep, and you put all the work and you're like, wow, the one thing. It'd be like somebody saying, yeah, your suit cost you. Like you made a bad choice. Yeah. Yeah. Domest thing there is after all your work. So that was a brutal one that I remind clients, now all the time, I'm like, let me see your tan. Let me see your tan. Because very often at the local level, they don't put enough on them. I'm like, give the guy more money, get a darker. We're not done. Right. I can very much relate to that. My first show the 97 northern. I won the heavy weights. And then I didn't win the overall. And everyone was like, how did you not win that? Because it's a little middleweight one. And like a bunch of people in the crowd were like, that, you should have won that. I was like a 230 pound heavy weight. It like a regional show. And so I went to the judges and I was like, hey, like real happy with everything. I was happy because I had no idea what was going to happen. Like I thought there might be 20 heavy weights show up. Right. So I was happy I won the heavies. But yeah. I was just like, hey, what do I got to do doing the overall? And the judges looked right at me, goes, oh yeah, you're tan. We couldn't give it to your way too light. That guy had great color. So everything showed like, you're way bigger than him. But you just didn't have enough tan on thing. And so I was obsessed. So for like the rest of my career, I was obsessed. I put on like eight bottles of protein every show and just like, be in it and just like, and then the sprays came out and everything. And we were all good to go. But yeah, I was that that sucked. I remember thinking like, oh, God. You know, I thought I was very good enough. Right. Yeah, it wasn't either. I always tell my clients, you should look ridiculous in person. If it's like stupid. If it's like, I thought I did. Like I looked. I looked enough. You know, like backstage. I looked the same color as everyone. But you know, you learn those lessons about how when you're really white. And you get under the the bright light. You need more tan backstage. Everyone looks the same color. But on the stage, it's not like that. You know, you got to be dark. So I'll buy no comes through. Yeah. Um. I just thought of a good. I got thought of a good follow-up question. So I'm going to say if that was a boy about taning. Um, I can think of one was my first contest. And I I wasn't that position where it's like I didn't really know a ton about what I was doing. It's the first time I've ever done this. I'm just happy to be there kind of thing. And then I took second place in middleweight, out of like six or seven guys. My mind was freaking blowing that I could actually beat not only one person, but several people in my class, you know. And then I could actually get all the way up to the point where there was only one guy to beat me. And I thought in my opinion he looked really good, right? So I made a post after that on Facebook because this is we're all using Facebook. Then it's like early days of Facebook. And I was like, you know, I did my first bodybuilding show and here's the pictures. And I posted up pictures of the other guys. And I said I missed, uh, I I almost won. I I uh, what only one guy beat me. Like it like basically saying like I could almost won this thing. It blows my mind. And the guy who won the overall, you turned out to be like a real dick. All right. He messages me and he goes, you didn't almost win. That guy was so much better than you. He annihilated you. He looked better because of this and because of that. And because of the like he he thought maybe the way he read it. Like I was saying like, you know, it was a close battle. And I should have beat this guy kind of, you know, I don't know if he read it that way. But he just he just dressed me down as they would say. And I was like, oh, and I tried to be like, oh, man, I'm writing back to him. I like I didn't mean it like that and I'm about, you know, and all of this. And then guess what, the scorecards come out. And back then you would actually see the actual scores guess what I missed first place by one point Dan. One point Dan. Dan. Yeah, Dan versus name Dan Snack. I can't remember his last name. Or I call him out. I call him out right now. I can look him up on Facebook. Right. Just a block. That's funny man. Share them up. So you didn't even know was one point. No, you didn't even know. Wow. You was happy to be in second, but the guy decided to do a Nile and for nothing. There. Yeah. So that was point Dan. And I was like, man, I like it really bothered me. It left a bad taste in my mouth about competing because like I just was having fun. You know what I mean? So it was cool though. So here's my follow up question. I want to hear. So like, but we're in the bodybuilding world, right? And you put your tan on. Everybody around you is tan. It's a normal practice. Let me tell you something. You go out into the public and you've got that tan on. That's a completely different story. Do you guys have any stories of being out in the real world with your contest tan on and have anybody? Because I can think of a couple of funny times. People looking at you weird or just wondering what the heck you're doing. Like, maybe they don't realize. I think I just don't what he did. He put on too much spray tan. I used to. I had a line that I said a couple times and it got a laugh because sometimes I think we assume that people kind of know what you did. Like, cause, you know, it's different if maybe maybe for someone who doesn't look as as obviously a bodybuilder, like maybe a figure competitor wearing her sweat suit. Yeah. People might just think that curls got this goocalover. But obviously, we're like 270 pounds with vans in your arms and you're standing in safe way. People put together that your bodybuilder most of the time. And I had this joke where people, you know, if I saw them kind of looking at, you know, the week after the show your hands are kind of all spotting and watching and it's wearing off your elbows. So I would try to stay covered mostly. But maybe once maybe you got a great pump. So you go into the grocery store with the sleeves out, right? And, and, and, and, I noticed somebody like kind of staring at my hand or the teller maybe kind of looking at you. And I would crack a joke and say, oh, it's okay. I just have a horrible skin disease. And I said it a couple times and I got like a laugh. Like I remember one time I said it to the cashier and she laughed. And she goes, oh, did you just do a bodybuilding show and I said, yeah. So like I sort of got a little bit comfortable with that joke. Yeah. One time I said, I don't where I just have a horrible skin disease. And the the the dread like the teller became paralyzed with fear. Like she completely shut down. She actually went like this and she just started like moving my items very like. And I realized, oh, she just like she's not even talking to me now. Like it's she's just beep beep beep beep. You guys, she falls immediately, which it's usually not contagious on food items. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. Tipper. Yeah. This little thing's like that. You know, you got to have a bit of fun with it, but sometimes it backfires and you just sound like an idiot. Yeah. I'm not afraid of those moments. So if you have a notice, I don't think that backfire at all. Your story isn't that funny and tell you get to that moment. Yeah. That takes off. Yeah. And then I was like, do I keep explaining or do I just let it hang there? You know, it's just thank her and shake her hand. Yeah. Thank you very much. Please. Yeah. Yeah. Why be your elbow across the counter and then walk out. Yeah. Yeah. That's going to help. Yes. You know, it's a lot more or less named the only way it goes, which is just the visual. Have you ever had? Here's a question for you. I sort of thought of it with Scott's question, but have you ever had someone come up to you and say, hey, you know, you know, you're, you know, so and so told me you were a terrible person, but you know, you're a good guy. You know, that old joke. But have you ever had that happen to you? Not real, like real life. No. I had it happen once. I'm not going to say his name, but he's, he's still known. And he said to me once, like, about a year after we competed together, I was talking to him at another show. And we're just chatting away. And then he's like, hey, man, you know, you're, you're, you're good dude. I, I, I heard you were good dude, but, you know, my last coach, he, he told me all this stuff about you and like, when week, when we competed against each other, I hated you. I thought you were just like, I thought you were this other person. And he had told me all this stuff. And I think he just told me to like motivate me to try to beat you, but like, like, it was like this and this. And he just told me all this stuff his old coach said about me. And I was like, wow, like, just crazy. Like I'd hardly even known his old coach. Like we'd spoken like 10 words. Yeah. He lived on the other side of the country. Like we didn't even know the same people. And this guy told him like, yeah, Ron, like this and that and blah, blah, blah, and told him like, me just made shit up. And I was like, oh, he must've been trying to like psychologically rocky you to hate me. Yeah. You know, that's so weird. But then like, then that coach, like, left and didn't like correct it or anything. Just left it and like, the guy just thought that until he got to know me. It was funny. He just also got on now. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So a lot of people disappeared. And he ended up. Canada is cold. Lot's of different land people are living and not a lot of peers. They have a river. Lot of lakes. Yeah. You know, mountains. They have all the terrains, really. Technically probably the easiest country in the world. You get really somebody. Yeah. No, for someone to get lost. Yeah. Just remember, don't pull a Craig Titus. Fire draws people. Yeah. I just thought I remember afterwards that like, I was like, wow. What else is like, you know what I mean? Because it doesn't hurt you. What other people say about you to other people is not on my mind. Like, I don't think about what other people say to other people about me. I just too removed to even give a remote care about, you know. But so that was just funny to me that he said that. He said, I was funny. He just doesn't work in bodybuilding. Yeah. Like it's a weird thing. I could get it. Like you're going to go head or if you're fighting or like, and they're like in football, you do it yourself. You yell you guy cross the line like I'm bangin' your sister after the game buddy. I'm bangin' her and you try to. Oh, yeah. You try that. Yeah. Some of those you said in pictures. Anyways, yeah. Wait, two y'all. That's true. Anyway, you're 17. That's the. But yeah, that's, I would now fight this up. Anyways, but back to what we were talking about. Um. There's a tough time back then you had to bring a whole camera. Anyways. Yeah. Let's not make this weird lady. That's odd to me. There's parts of this getting edged. There's no question. Yeah. That's just what the pod will not understand the context. No, there's no context. Get this by as no idea who Mrs. Robinson is anyways. There we go. Oh, another derailed the show. Dustin, do you have any tanning stories? Any funny situations where you were tanned up and people didn't know what the hell was going on? Honestly, not much more than what Ron said because it's all for everyone. It's the same thing, which is when the tan starts to come off. Yeah. But I really do think for the most part, it's in the competitors head more than people looking like, I don't have to know. I don't have to know that, oh, that person had a fake tan on it's coming off. Even if it's too dark, it doesn't matter. And I think as a bodybuilder to be a mascot, you know this, but you reach a point where, and Ron, I think you could attest to this. When I first started getting big, I really noticed people looking at me. I had walking to a restaurant. I could feel like people look. Yeah. And then after you get for a long time, you don't even see it anymore. And so I wouldn't even notice if someone was looking at me funny about the tan or the fact that I dressed weird or whatever it would be, I just don't care anymore. I don't know if I got older just used to being big, but you know, you really do stop noticing. You guys will love this. We're, uh, side note here, but to show how much people think other people are watching them. I'm getting on this small cable machine today. And this guy is across from, they go, sorry for the view. And I said, you're like, I need to exist. Yeah. I go, what, what view? He goes, what we're doing this machine right here. And his wife goes, well, I'm not sorry. You're welcome. And I'm like, what are we talking about? They're like, they're doing a lying leg curl. I'm like, I, what? No one's looking at it. Maybe there was an invite involved there. Like, there was a little bit of a dusty place. I just think that's a squimmer engagement. If there were a swinging, and then I'm going to need his wife to stop with the granny panes. It drives me crazy under tights. Maybe strong or nothing. Suck it on. Have rules. Hey, there was really a bit of a way. Basically the latest CDC release. They said that this summer, you don't have to wear panes with your sun dress. This is all I did. I saw that last summer. Anyways. I, I get it, it's directly my email. Okay. Important. Latest CDC. I had one where I literally stopped the entire grocery store. No, it was a small grocery store. And it was like, I think I had a hand. I think it, I can't remember what it was. But I must have been competing from the house. And he went up your pants. No, no, no, no. And I wasn't wearing a sun dress either. But I, I, I had my team. I went into the grocery store. And it's like the little local grocery store, food land. And I thought it's going to be no big deal. I think I was wearing like one of the, like a sleeveless t-shirt like Roddenware's to the ex-bos. And I swear to God that every person at every till stopped what they were doing. Every person in the line stopped what they were doing. You could hear a silence fall over the grocery store. As they all turned and looked at. Yeah. Yeah. Not even a whisper. Yeah. That's right. You're in the rainy season. The skin disease line. I got a skin disease. It's just a good idea. It's just a front line. There's no waiting for the skin disease. No, I had the full on tan. I think they just thought like I didn't know like I did, you know, made a mistake. Well, that's black face. That's why. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. You're going to get it. Yeah. That's troublesome where you're from. Yeah. Yeah. The tanning stuff isn't a big deal anymore to me. Because I did tanning back in the 90s when it was really weird. So now like, like, you know, I had those weird engagements back then when it was like, What is? Like people had never even seen it before. Like you were the first person they ever saw. But now it's a little bit more, you know, people sort of get it. I think. Yeah. My grandma competes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. We had a few more. What about this one now? Jeremy posted this up in the think big Facebook group today. And I said, hey, this would be a good one to bring to the guy I see what they have to say. He says, what is your strategy around illness during a bulk? Not normally a sick person, but caught some type of a bug the last few days. Couldn't eat the first day chicken and rice weren't palatable the next two. Stuck to oatmeal eggs, egg whites and protein shakes. Made it outside for a walk to get some fresh air and to raise the heart rate. Do you guys train when you're sick or just keep the muscles active with a pump? Or do you not do any type of workout and cardio? Or do you just lay in bed and sleep to recover ASAP? Do you consume whatever calories you can get in with in reason to prevent rapid weight loss? Water fast? He says question mark. We'll love to hear what you guys think on this comment, but not talked about topic. That was a lot of information. Way more thought than I ever put in the being sick. I was having a sick day. Let me tell you, this is, hey, it's a fair question to it's fair question. But I think this is indicative of what we see with a lot of people. Just overthinking everything, like overthinking everything. Just crazily. If I'm a little bit sick from the neck up, I take some a fedron and I go train. If I'm sick from the neck down, like any sort of achiness or any of that, like, you know what I mean? Where the body, like a, you know when you feel like a Orthodox owner. Yeah, fever and anything like that, then I don't go to the gym at all. And I just rest. And as far as food, the most thought I would have ever put into it is, I need some calories. Maybe I should have some pizza if I have an eating all day or maybe I should make whatever I can eat or I'll put this meal together and I'll have some toast with it. And I'll like, if it wasn't like, there was no thinking of that sort of thing. It's what can I eat? Have I eaten? How am I like, do I need calories? I think the number one thing I would think of is just push and water through your body. Just trying to like hydrate and take your vitamins and, you know what I mean? Never put much thought into any of that other stuff. It's just, oh, I can't train today. So I'm just going to get some sleep and stay home. And then you just flip a switch and make it the bright side. Go like, oh, well, it's a movie day. We're going to watch a movie today and say to train, get a movie in. You know, or something like that, you just move on. Yeah, I think what happens is, and this is in all directions. People over estimate what can happen in a couple of days. And underestimate what happens in a year. Like, I don't care about a few days being sick. I wouldn't even, I tell my clients if they're in the office, and get better. That's it. I don't care what you eat. I don't care if you don't eat. I do say hydrate. You know that when around like the hydration is key. I do not keep you watching what you're attempting to do anything. I don't, you need your heart rate up. If you want to sit outside because you want fresh air, fine. But like, yeah, nothing about for a muscle. It's all about getting, you know, what's the quickest way to get better? Yeah. You know, and the moment that you can eat a pizza or you can have a cheeseburger, good news. We're getting close to better because you won't want to eat those either when you're really sick. So don't overthink that at all. It's, you know, it's very important to understand what actually takes place to lose size. Or to gain fat. You know, I had a client today sent us check in. And he's up a pound and a half and last week and his diet was perfect. So I'm like, we understand that gaining fat on a perfect week is impossible. Yeah. We're, you know, you're going to deficit. So same thing like you, you're going to lose some weight. You did not lose any muscle tissue when you were sick for four days. So don't worry about it. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So yeah, just don't sweat the, don't sweat the small stuff. You know what I mean? And also keep in mind that even though you're sick, you're still recovering from your last workout. Yeah. Like, you know, you still got that going on. It's not like your bodybuilding has halted just because you're sick. You still did legs three days ago and then you did shoulders a day after that. And then you did arms yesterday. And now you're sick today. So you still growing just rest, you know, try to get some food in, you know? That's all. If I were to try to add anything to it, I'd go down that hydration road. You guys both noted. And I would say careful when you get back into the gym because I think it can take a little while to get that hydration back up. And yeah, a lot of times like after I've been sick, I get back in the gym. And I feel like I'm not quite as strong as I was before I got sick. And that's not like that I got weaker. It's probably that my hydration is a little bit off. So I always tell people to just think about that. And you're probably not going to try to set a PR, you know, the second you get back in the gym kind of feel things out. Yeah, you're still feeling good, you know, and then you get into it instead of doing four and a half plates on this machine. You maybe just do four plates on this machine and just crank out 15 and set a 12 or whatever. Just just get in and train, you know, I've people been really sick like, you know, where they're to wipe out for days and they lose 10 pounds and all that stuff. I tell them it'll take one round of each muscle group for you to really just fill back out. So your skill way to come back up, just do your thing, you know, no panicing, you know. Okay, then these are, we got a few here that are courtesy of Tommy Styles. Tommy gave us all questions when we were at the Arnold in case we needed to come up with some topics, which we didn't need, but we're going to use them now because the last week has been basically just an epilogue. So good, where do you step a log? I don't even know what epilogue, the definition of epilogue is what's, it was awesome either way. What's the definition of the word epilogue? Why not show it to definition is, but you know what it reminds me of? What's that? Do you used to be shows in like the 70s and 80s? It'd be like, do you remember this detective show the streets of San Francisco? Yes. Do you remember that show? And they would actually put like act one on the screen. Yeah. And then they come back from a commercial and they would say act two, right? And it would be like they're investigating the crime and then act three would be like when they solved the crime. And then they come back from a commercial and it would say epilogue. This is for you. I just read the actual definition. Yeah, yeah, what is it? It's got you slated. Did I? Did I? It's a sectioner speech at the end of a book or play that serves as a comment or conclusion to what has happened. I'm not telling you. I messed it up because I was going to say that our entire last week of podcasting was an epilogue of shows which would have been improper. It was a saga. It was a saga. It's a saga. It's really a clue. Anything. No, you never do. You know, there's no lesson. There's no moral lesson. Let's make sure that we ignore it at least one of time. I'm going to do the question. You got to do the time. Yeah. Easy to disappear in Canada. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Roll the clip. Yeah. Okay. So that's it guys. We need questions for the next show. And until then, we've got some stuff that Tommy gave us. These are killer. Thank you, Tommy. He says, how about this one? If you weren't a bodybuilder, bodybuilding coach, what would you be doing? Instead of coaching? Yes. And I guess it would go along with just bodybuilding in general. I'm thinking. Totally, all the things bodybuilding out. Yes. Pulling all things bodybuilding out. I would have probably have the time and the drive to run another business of some kind. I would probably look at having another business on the side. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I always looked at bodybuilding coaching as something I would eventually stop doing. Like, right. I just sort of always assumed that I would eventually eventually. I'd be like, okay, you know. I'm just going to step out of this arena at some point. But I don't know what I'd be doing if I wasn't coaching. I don't know if I don't think I'd want a judge. I don't think any of that stuff. You know, maybe promoting another show. I know we do the one show and I do it with a really good team of people. But yeah, there's nothing else in the bodybuilding bubble that really calls my name. I don't see myself moving into any other avenue of bodybuilding. Competing and coaching, those are the only two things that ever really interested me. I might the fantasy career for me would be doing commentating for hockey. That would be so much fun. No kidding. That's such a good thing. And I'm going to tell you, I'm a judgmental prick when I'm watching. Why I'm judgmental prick in general. But what I'm walking, watching hockey, I really am. They're crappy. I'm like, this guy sucks. He just writes, go lazy isn't the boards. But I'm talking about the commentary. I judge them. And I'm like, oh yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm like this guy just ignoring a long about nothing that does it matter. Now there's been five possession changes. And he hasn't spoken of them because he thinks he's funny. I'm like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Focer, right. Focer, right. But yeah. That would be like the fantasy opportunity would be that. But truthfully, I would just, I would definitely just own another business. And especially down here. A lot of opportunity in the South for businesses that are pretty saturated in busy or places. So that's kind of exciting for sure. But I would definitely still be in some form. Everything goes back to passion for me. So it would be another thing I'm passionate about. And it doesn't necessarily have to equate to a ton of money. Because I'm not actually money motivated. I've covered this before. Like, I want to do things because I want to do them. And if they happen to make good money, that's great. But if they don't, I don't, if I love it enough, I don't care. Right. I don't, I have a pretty low key lifestyle, honestly, other than a couple toys. And those things, if I didn't have my wooden care, but then my motorcycle's trucks, I wouldn't care. It's fine. Right. The, yeah. So I have talked to Emily a few times. And I've thrown the idea around. I think I mentioned it to both you guys at some point. But I've, um, I've thought about like, I wonder what sort of music podcast I could do. I think I've thought about it. Because I watched music podcasts. Like I watch guys that have shows like ours. But they're music. And they have guests on, you know, they might do an episode where it's just them talking about guitars. And then the next episode, he's got the guitar player from Iron Maiden on. Yeah. And they're talking, and the guy just happens to be in town because they're doing some recording. And he stops by the studio and they do an interview. Of course, the guys got a million followers so he can get those type of people. Right. I'm just like, well, we do that with bodybuilding. We've had Jay color on. We've had the top guys on. Yeah. You know what I mean? So it's like that type of equivalent in the different industry. And I'm like, man, I would love. I would, and sometimes I watch interviews with musicians. And I'm like, oh, that was pretty good. But I would have done a, I could have done a way better job. I would have asked him way more interesting questions. Like, that happens to me all the time. I'm like, ah, what's left the interview that guy? You know, I feel like Ron should also review concerts. Because he'll tell me about going to a concert of a band. I don't care about. And then I want to go. Yeah, I don't know what I see that band. Like, who I don't know anything about them. But like, right. Because Ron is a, is a story. Like sometimes I want Ron to watch my life just so he can tell people that. That's what sounds cooler. No, worry. I tell people how interesting it is to hang out with you. See, and they think I'm cooler than I am because of the way he tells the story. Which is phenomenal. And they live and you're like, we're real let down. Yeah, that's not what Ron's story. So Ron is just a liar. And it's not like you're fun. Yeah. And now, no, I think I think you should do that anyway, so because it would be super interesting to see your takes. Because I do like, I enjoy following a lot of like things I don't know about. As long as someone's passion about it and they have great detail and stuff. It's like a good, a good storyteller. You know, like, I'll send Ron stuff on like the other day I say in that guitar collection. I just want to know like, is this as good as it looks to a guy who doesn't know anything. Right. And Ron is giving a brief review and I'm like, oh, sweet. That's, that's something that I think is it's, it's, you know, it's how you get your audience. And there's different levels of it. I mean, if you do it with body building podcasts, it's the same in music podcasts. There's all these different levels. There's certain guys where if you watch their interviews, their interviews are just by nature geared towards very deep people that are already that deep. Like they're talking, like you watch one guy and you might interview a famous musician and they're talking about like different scale modes of like structure of song writing. And the average music fan is like, I don't know what any of the stuff is. They're talking literally talking about music theory and it's nothing to do with. I wanted to, you know what I mean, but it's like it's intricate and the people that are into that are like, oh man, this is the best interview ever. Yeah, right. But but I sort of, I, I've watched a couple guys where I'm like, like, I'd be great at this because I'd be asking questions that like guys like us that are in like maybe, you know what I mean? Like be more like, hey, like like back in the 80s when you guys started and you're on the bus, you know, two girls a one time. And then there's no pop. What do you do when there's no cup, you know? And this like, you know what I mean? Like I think like it would be a different gear and I think like I would really enjoy watching the type of podcast that I would do. Yeah. And that space. So that would just be something that would interest me, but you know, thought about that. I would need a wrong to do that now. I'm, I'm, I'm, this is, this is happening now. Scott. Right. Yeah, I can show you how. I'll just sit in the background like the old episodes around. I'll do it for you. Yeah. I'm over here doing my check-ins around doing his podcast. All right, Ronald, you're next week. See, I love you. Yeah, you don't have to edit because I don't care. You just take pressure. Yeah. Yeah. But any one of them. That's great. Okay. Why I'm putting that up there. So that's the night. That's an artist. I've already approved it. You know what? I really enjoyed doing and I could see myself doing is dog training. Yes. Yeah. I, when I got my rot-wiler when I was younger, I put in a bunch of research into, first of all, what breed I wanted. And then I narrowed it down. I got a rot-wiler. And then I put in a bunch of research in how to train dogs. And I started reading about like the pack mentality in how wolves operate. And then how to operate. And then it just kept going to level deeper and a level deeper. And I found that I'm really good at training dogs. It's like it's just a natural thing that I'm good at doing in reading dogs too. I think have a lot of fun being a dog trainer, honestly. If it was nothing to do with bodybuilding at all. Yeah. I, I, I, I, I, I, I've talked to Emily a lot about our, our future. In fact, we just had a, every, every Sunday, Emily and I have a little, little business meeting. I love that. You know what I mean every Sunday, we just like how things go on, like what's new this week? Like that sort of thing kind of tried to cover that sort of stuff. And we were talking last night about like where we see ourselves in 10 years. And, you know, I would really like to see us in a position where she's not working as much. She can spend more time like volunteering with dog rescues. And we can get involved with that sort of thing. And maybe we're in a position where we can, you know, be helpful to them. And you know, maybe we can be part of the, you know, part of the funding or part of the helping them raise money and just like big being active and taking part with that sort of thing. And that's something that we really are interested in in the future. You know, regardless of whether they're, you know, there's no, I don't think anyone gets rich off rescuing dogs, right? It's just something that you lose or passion for. Yeah, you lose everything. Yeah, but there's just like it's something that we, you know, like, What do you want to do with your time when you get a little older and you have a little more extra time? You know, when you cut back on your work and, you know, I'm, that sort of thing. So, but there's just the dog rescue thing is very attractive to us because it seems like it would be very rewarding. That's the word I was thinking of rewarding. I'm sure that would be. Yeah. Can we finish this on a bodybuilding tip, guys? So, God, one more time. All right. So, what is, and we're going to go time, you style time. We style this kind of a dark guy sometimes. You've ever seen him train. Great for questions. He is. Great questions. Here's a dark one. What is your death row training session? And what is your death row meal following that session? Woo. Okay. Quite. You guys notice it got really good. I don't really feel like, I don't really feel like training right now. Well, yeah. So, so here's the thing though. If I would like to die in the same hour, I don't really work out. I just want to like watch a great movie or something. Can I hear if I don't have a camera? Can I get some more hours? Can I take it? I'm thinking, okay, how am I being executed? It's important. I need to know. Maybe next. You're going to do, you're going to fire in this wall. You're doing fire in this wall. You're doing fire in this wall. You're doing fire in this wall. Okay. I want. Okay. I just, I'm doing chest alarms. I'm getting a great pump. And I'm going to go out looking good in a front double. Yeah. Max pump. Big, big pecking arm pump. That's it. I'm not going to be like, oh, I need to dig deep on a leg. We're going to cut one more time. No, I don't. Chest alarms. Crazy pump. You know? Yeah, I want to look. I want to look great. If they got to do leafland Jackson, they don't even need the band. They're just going straight. There's so many veins. Yeah. Help me clean her. I just say I put it anywhere. You even matter. You need to look. I got sick pump. I'm digging you on. I'm digging a Sam's soul. I'm looking real like actually this is sick. This is sick. Okay. I'm ready to go. No. Let's see. That's very valid. I think. Well, I'm definitely not doing calves because I haven't done the rest of my life. I've started now. No, I would want to be transported because I would need to recreate a a denows workout with Ron. And just like my wedding, I wouldn't tell Ron that they were about to put me down. We would just meet for a workout. Oh, right. I have a nasty one. And then as we leave, you know, kind of what I did to Tommy when I moved. I'd say, hey, I'm going to die at some point and you go, oh, when? I've been like in two hours. Today. Yeah. Yeah. You know, leave it out like that. And, you know, I would have of course my go to, which would just be a nice fillet or a, you know, something of that level with some craft dinner. It's good to go. It's all I need. I think in math. That's what he's having for sure. So I'm going out with steak and Matt on a square plate, obviously. Yeah. Yeah. I know, it would be the last meal would be like, you know, I'd have some, I'd have a bit of pizza and I'd have some steak and fries and I'd have some ice cream. Yeah. It's going to be a little better. Yeah. A little bit everything. Yeah. No, say that. What sandwich would you pick? Yeah. Yeah. You all have sandwiches. You're going to start to Jersey Mike's lunch. I'm just going to die hungry. You got to get this apart. You got to get this apart. The way he's done, but definitely sandwiches with mayonnaise. Yeah. You're going to get this apart. Yeah. You're going to get this apart. Yeah. You're going to get this apart. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Wow. That's just terrible. Yeah. Is that it? Is that it? That's it. We're going to let Tommy have to hook after that one. Yeah. So that was good. And you guys are going to see him shortly because he's going to be at the mutant booth. And he was going out there anyway. You started telling me about that a little bit. Dusty when we were driving over to train. He's going to be in the UK anyway. Yeah. He's going to tomorrow. And then he is going to come and hang out with us. Worked to booth. Hell yeah. He's going to get the full experience. And I'm just nervous that Tommy may not go home. Because you, K. Bodybuilding is literally made for him. Yeah. I think it's very good that his dog will be at home because it will force him to go back home. Because if not, I don't know that might just be the end. It just leaves it. I mean, it's a client or online. He don't care. Right. So how did I not, how did I miss all this? How did I not know Tommy was coming to the UK? Because I don't tell you anything. I just do things. And I tell you like before. Yeah. Yeah. No, he messaged me. He said, hey, I'm going to be in the UK. Do you think mutant would want me to work the booth? And so I reached out to George and George was like, of course. And Tommy, this is, you know, note for those who actually want to get in the game. He said he didn't need to, he didn't even need his room covered. He's like, I just want to work the booth to show that I can bring value. Of course, that's not happening. And mutants doing their thing. But I do think people need to see that. Is that is how he made it in life in the body of the world, in the coaching world, and everything he's done. And it's continued on. And so I think that's an important thing for people to realize because I get people all the time that we'll ask. Oh, how can I help? And you're like, oh, well, we're doing this in its socks. And they're like, oh, yeah, I just wanted to like train with you guys. You know, right? So, you know, it is important that people do know that side of it. Because that, you know, he essentially created an opportunity to showcase what he can do by asking. You know, that's, yeah. I saw a great video the other day. It was a guy giving a speech on like business. And he said, I'll tell you about my first account. They paid me. I can't remember exactly what he did. It was unimportant. He said, they paid me $4,000 to the contracted me. They paid me $4,000 to do this project for them. And it cost me $4,800 to do the project. Right. Now, what would you think if I presented you with that opportunity? Most people would be like, that's a terrible business idea. But this was my first main major project with a giant company that was given me a chance. And I knocked it out of the park. And they loved me because business is about people. They invested in me. They liked me. And then the next time they needed something they came to me and said, how much is this going to cost? And I said, $6,500. And they said, fair enough, your last project was awesome. And now I'm too grand in the black. And then they kind of mean for the next project. And I say, well, I'm going to need another person for that one. I'm going to need to get somebody to help me. I'm going to have to contract someone to build this out. And they said, let us know. And I charge them 12 grand. And I put four grand on my pocket. And then here I am five years later, I've done a hundred projects for that company. And they've been my biggest account. And they have referenced, they've sent all these other accounts to me. My business is booming. The best decision I ever made. But the first, the first time they called me, I lost 800 bucks. And he's like, people don't really think about that stuff. They just look at the number right off the bat, but building relationships, showing your worth, showing what you can do, showing that you love the work that you really want to produce something great. And or be great at what you're doing. That once people know that you can be dependent on, once people know that you can be invested in. It's not about your company you work for, or who we're company you own. It's that you can be invested in. And that's very important. So it's something for everybody to consider. It's the same when you're inviting people to the table too, though. I'll have a lot of people last. So I know you do too, Ron. Like, hey, can I do something for mutant? And if it's not a good fit, I just say no. Because when I do call and say, hey, George, is this something we can do? There's never a question like, when I brought Tommy into mutant. I'm like, we should sign Tommy. He goes, okay. Right. That was it. Yeah. Like, yeah. Didn't ask me about him like, because I've never sent something that wasn't up to par. So reputation goes a long, long way. And you got to keep that in mind if you get yourself somewhere. Don't just bring your deadbeat homeies up with you if they're deadbeat. Because that looks bad on you. Like, you know, it's very, very important. I mean, same thing. You know, I got my daughter, her job at a gym. And I told her, I'm like, I literally told my friend, I'm like, I want you to be brutal to her. Because she has to be your best employee. Because I open the door. You know what I mean? You know what I mean? It's all the same thing. Like, I open the door. Don't embarrass me. Like, you got to slay this. So it's important that people see all those things. And then when you get in, it's awesome because that's your opportunity. And there's no question we're going to have a great time. Tommy's going to work his face off like we all do. And that'll be that. Yeah. On that note of pitching in, I have to say, thank you to Hunter. Your client does the, who is out at the urnell. He hung back. And he asked me, he was like, hey, man, is there anything you do to help? Everybody left the booth. And I've got 500 cords that are taped down in mics and headphones, all that stuff. He hung back and he wrapped cords with me for 30 minutes. I mean, it was a huge help. That would have taken me like an hour to do on my own. But to have two people to do it was like, I mean, it didn't take him a ton of time. He probably wasn't doing anything else. You know, but it was a huge, huge help to me. So I wanted to make sure I said thank you to him. Yeah. Well, no shock that he has some business to that age. So we'll leave him. Doesn't really, what is he, no kidding. He's doing. Yeah. He's got his own thing. He just barely started. I don't know the name or anything. I'd promote it a little more. But more important than what was just he had an opportunity. He worked for someone. And then it became an opportunity that he could like take it over. I'm not going to tell the story just because it's from trouble. But because I don't, I don't know how the other owner went out. I guess the better way of putting it under his foot. He took an opportunity. You know, what could have just been like, oh, I lost my job in turning an opportunity. And I've got a few clients that are like hustlers like that. And you can always tell because they mentioned like in passing or like, that's a hell of a move right there. Like that's an opportunity that most people didn't even see. And he's going to cash in on a big time. So it doesn't shock me at all that he would do that because, you know, he's a young, I mean, I don't know how old is, but early 20's guy. Yeah. And well, ahead of the curve. It doesn't surprise me at all. It'll all turn all that just based off of the interactions I had with him. That's really cool. And thank you. Yeah. I appreciate it, man. Yeah. Awesome. So is that it? That is it in the show? Okay. Thanks everybody. Remember, I am mutant.com. Go to I'm mutant.com. Get your all in. Get your ISO surge. And everyone should get on the gear. We love it. And of course, we have to remind everyone in the US. You can now get mind. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. I love it. Yeah. You can use the words spell that out yourself. Have you guys seen it yet? Yes. I've got to read it. I haven't tried it. Do you full scoop dusty? Yes. I thought it was awesome. I used it all three mornings at the expo. But the last morning, I had a full serving. And I made it also. I made a conscious effort to not have nearly as much coffee with my breakfast. Yeah. I had to feel it. And I loved it. And I'm trying to scam some from the warehouse because we can't sell it in Canada right now. Oh, because it's gunning gradient in it that hasn't been approved. So it's in the US only. But I love everything. I think I can get my hands on it. So I'm happy. But I love it. No. Yes. I had the same thing. But reverse run was when we went down that morning. We just stopped by. They were just sampling out full servings like mixed like a like it was on tap. Yeah. So I took a serving and I just took a sip and it was the peach one. I was like, Oh, this is good. So I just drank it on the way in. I was holding my monster that I drink every morning. And I got to the booth and I was like, I don't need this. So I just put my monster in the bag. Now, mining guys, it's not a stimulant. So it's not because I just felt very alert. And I was like, Oh, yeah. I don't need the monster. So I just put it down. Yeah. And now it's actually been my pre-workout every day since. Because I may or may not have come in the year to couple. I'm rushed at the booth. I would you should have done rookie. Actually, I asked for one to. I love Nutropics. Yeah. But now I'm not going to score. The spot is on the way. So I'm straight. Not the only Nutropics. The only Nutropics I've taken in the last 10 years were for a smashing pumpkin's concert. So that was a different. That's a lot of the. We'll talk about that there. I had my levels kind of messed up. It was quite what I was looking for. But yeah, that's that's where we're at. And remember everybody like share subscribe comment. And ring the bell. There we go. One more thing. Dusty. Have you checked your Bitcoin today? Oh, yeah. I've been checking it pretty regularly to be on the right now. I try not to look. I just leave it. I'm just saying. You're feeling's not hurt. And if you're connected to anything else as well, they'll be along for the ride shortly. Well, I'm just saying that I feel pretty smart right now for having a auto buy turned on for the last three years. Oh, hell yeah. Yeah. I've been buying a hundred bucks a week for three years. Nice. On top of what I had. So yeah. I did great through that whole slump. And now we're getting a little bit of a ride here. So let's just see what happens. Especially real quite a bit. I also did. I also did something really smart. And about a month ago, I dumped a big chunking because I was doing my RSPs for taxes. And I was kind of moving some investment. I was, you know, after taxes doing, doing my thing for taxes. And I had this little chunk and I thought, I'm going to throw it in. Yeah. And now I thought good. So I thought good. So good. Yes. Yeah. Okay. Have a good one, everybody. Remember that it's just bodybuilding. Great. Excellent. Awesome.

This one's easy, GH and insulin. There's a lot of synergy there. One of his ideas was combining anodrol and deepel. I rarely use testosterone law in the astral. Okay. I think that those two might as well be married because essentially what you're doing is the mastrad makes sure that you're using as much of that testosterone as possible. When the ret one pushes him to shove total testosterone means nothing. The only thing it really matters is your free testosterone. So anything that can increase your free testosterone without you having to increase the dose of your testosterone is a winner winner chicken chicken dinner. I've said that three times today. What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with Coach's Kip Hill, Andrew, very Scott McNaley and all our programming is brought to you by you. Yeah, you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. We've got a couple of Patreon questions and a couple of physique critiques from Patreon today. We're also brought to you by TrueNutrition.com. Get all your basic body building supplements from them, your protein powder, your creatine, your intro workout, everything else like that. And of course, use our code to think over there. And once again, supplements source.ca. If you're up in Canada and you need to go deal on supplements, then they're definitely the place to go. So guys, we've got a couple of critiques, like I said, we've got a bunch of other stuff. But we wanted to start this thing out with one of the listener questions, which was besides the basic things that we know of synergy, test, deck of deballs, specifically for growing muscle. What are some synergistic stacks in your opinions? And some of this might be just based off your experience, too. I think we all, well, I'm not done yet. I'm just like, ready to go, so I could throw my stuff. My piece of text in me. I'm like, pot, you can't fucking text me during the day. This nighttime stuff, damn, we've been through this for the last three years. Anyway, sorry. He's picking me. To get to the topic. I mean, this one's easy, GH and insulin. There's a lot of synergy there. And if our listeners like to go back, we did a great episode with Dr. Scott Stevenson about four to six episodes back where we really deep dived into GH, in particular, and we covered adding insulin to the mix as well. But yeah, I mean, I think, especially for taller bodybuilder like me, GH and combining insulin were a must-need synergistic compound or combo to help me go from, you know, to 24 for a couple years to competing in the 240s. It was like night and day. You know, as soon as I started adding that in, they cut the both of them. Because I'd use insulin on its own for a while, and I'd use GH on its own for a while. But when I married the two together, it was like, we're going to love both island baby, you know. You know, besides that, well, hold that. Let's skip throwing out. And I've got one too. So don't, don't, don't, there's only so many combos. We gotta, you know what I mean? I may have been cutting recently. Okay. And the process was incredibly efficient. That then had to pull the insulin, to cut the growth hormone in. Oh, the progress slowed to a crawl. By the time I realized the correlation, and I wanted to put it back in to see if it would be causative, I put it back in. It was causative, and that things picked up again right away. So not only for size, but for cutting this synergy there that is just, and like I've said a million times before, I must say, at a million times again. I mean, mediocre bodybuilder with mediocre genetics. So the people listening, I tend to think, are relate, they'll relate to that. So if it works for me, it's going to work for a lot of other people because it also works. You know, I've shown that with my clients as well. So there is that synergy there, whether size, whether conditioning, whether getting leaner, and I don't care what, so many people are still stuck on that. Other of you is Vincent, you can't get lean on insulin. You go out, keep that, and you're just limiting yourself so much that it's crazy. All right. Great. What about, what do you got for us, Gap? What's another one? A combo, ideally for growing, that you found has synergy. Or maybe it's just a synergistic combo that we haven't mentioned. Yeah, we mentioned the classic test bucket deep all. I'm to the point where I rarely use, unless it's just, well, mental out of times, it is TRT2, the more I think about it, I rarely use testosterone without men's room. Okay. I think that those two might as well be married because essentially what you're doing is the master on, make sure that you're using as much of that testosterone as possible. When you push comes to shove total testosterone means that it means shit, it means nothing. The only thing it really matters is your free testosterone. So anything that can increase your free testosterone without you having to increase the dose of your testosterone is a winner chicken chicken dinner. I've said that three times today. Yeah, you said that. And I don't know where it's coming from. Yeah. But it is the saying of the day. I guess it is. We've talked before all three of us are all in huge favor of test EQ and P.P. Yes. So I think it would be redundant to get back into that everybody. But should be noted. Yeah. Yeah. I'm going to throw a combo out there to you that I had picked up off of the message boards. Do you guys remember a guy who posted named Gavin Cain? Yeah. You remember that? This is like early, early thing though. Just a number of chin. We don't see that. I dropped it. You remember skip though, like he would come out with posts and it'd be like an epic two three post post and it'd be titled something real catchy. Like something about like all the mass or like some secrets you'd that that was the point. You know, I don't think people did people know who he was. I don't know. I know if I did. I can't remember. Okay. One of his ideas was combining anodrol and deeple. Okay. And even do it at it. And he would run this with a test deck of background. So you're doing test deck of really. And for the first four weeks, you would have anodrol in. And for the first six weeks, you would also have deep all in. So the deep balls run in a little bit longer in the anodrol. And the way I interpreted it was to reduce the doses of each. So normally if we run 100 milligrams of anodrol, I thought okay I'm going to run 50. And normally if we run 50 milligrams of deep all, okay I'm going to run 25. And so instead of having a massive dose of both, I did a half dose of each. And I got big with high blood pressure. I got a lot of pressure on that cycle. You think? Yeah. But I did grow. I definitely grew on that cycle too. Did you? Because when I if I were to look at a cycle like that, I would think, yeah, one day you're going to come into the gym and everyone's going to go to the whole of the ship or your up 20 pounds. And then two weeks later after you stopped that cycle, you're going to go back to the gym and you're like, I'll do the okay. Yeah, thanks go on. All right. Would you like? Would you like? Yeah, you know what I'm saying? Just because I could see a lot of water retention that, Oh yeah. In a t-shirt, you're going to look bursting full, you know? Yeah. Probably sloppy without the shirt on. I might have been actually eight weeks with the deep all. And four to six with the anodrol. Something like that. How does it? Yeah, but it was a lower dose. It was 25 milligrams. And back then, man, my appetite didn't get destroyed by it, you know? But I did well because I remember I got super strong on it. I'm going to throw another one out there to you. But I'll wait. You guys throw me another one. Because I have another, um, not common combo that I found early on was incredible. Man. And of course, these are things that's a thing that I don't suggest. You know what I'm saying? I'm not saying like everybody should go out and run and test, uh, anodrol deep all, you know? Here's the thing for me. There's not a lot of combos of drugs that I would be like, oh, that's just utterly ridiculous, right? Yeah. And so I feel like there's synergy and almost all compounds. If you have a, if you can justify why you're doing it, you know what I mean? Um, obviously, like a test base for almost every cycle. And then I think from there, it's like personal experience. Because I'm, I'm big on listening to my clients previous experience with compounds. Yeah. Sure. I have what I know works best for me. And I probably used to try to push that up people more, more often. I will say that the test EQ and BP works almost universally for everybody. Mm-hmm. But, you know, so if you're, your first time or thinking of, not a first time, but you're, you know, thinking about leveling up your gear and you want to compound a few different compounds. Layer a men. I would, I would do a test EQ and PP cycle. But, you know, there's not a lot of combos that I don't think that I think don't have synergy. You know what I mean? Right. Like I can find an application for everything. Like I know in the last show we did, I happen to see a question that we didn't go over that was, what do you guys think about, you know, front loading a cycle with trend, you know, a test EQ, something else like go with trend. I'm like, I'm all for it. I'm here for it. You know, what do you think about using trend at the end of a offseason cycle? I'm here for that too. And it's not, I'm just using trend as an example. Right. But, but there's so many combinations of compounds that I think you really just got to use your repertoire knowledge on what it had the least side effects with, you know? Because you don't want to be taken something four weeks into it. You're not eating, you're not sleeping, you don't want to go to the gym, maybe you're being an asshole to your friends and family. Like you want to find the compounds that are going to have the least amount of side effects with the most positive gains. And I think that's going to be a little bit different for everybody. I know it doesn't answer your question, Scott. So I'll turn it back over to you because you said you had a few more that I'm interested to hear those. I had one that in less skipped you have another one. I don't. I'm struggling to come back with that. I'm thinking early on of things that I had done where that were like, oh, this this was interesting, you know? And I will say that the combination between obviously test with trend, ACE and deep all, the strength from that cycle was out. And it was a short cycle. It was an eight week cycle. I might have even been running pro at the time because the idea was like, you had to couple your pro with your ACE because they're both fast acting, you know? Later I realized it doesn't necessarily need to be that way. But I, so it might have been, I believe it was pro and it was a shorter cycle eight weeks and a last four weeks I added in deep all. I can't remember the dose, but I usually kept it pretty low like 25. And I just remember Dumbbell Rose at the gym were like one day, you know, one day in particular I was like, holy crap. I can't believe how this weight is moving, you know what I mean? I would say deck and deep all too that there is a connection there, but test deck and deep all. If you're going to run deep all with, you know, for an offseason game, I can't think of anything better to run it with and deck and and test and I'm not a deck of fan. Yeah, so I might say MPP, but you know that cycle goes back to the 80s. Yeah. And it was it was king and still and it's probably underrated these days. It probably is for the you know the size you can gain if you can, you know, if you but once like Andrew said though like how do you tolerate them, you know? Yeah. I'm also thinking now that we're getting on this tangent of maybe short-term things to do. You know, you're basically whether it's test, EQ or whatever, but adding in, you know, anodoroall, halo test and maybe a little, you know, for if you're trying to break past like a strength barrier in particular, you know, deep in the offseason, you've been squatting five plates and you can't get more than eight reps on it. I want to get 10 before I finish this blast. You do a little round of, you know, maybe 50 to 100 anodoroall, 20 to 30 halo, maybe 50 T&E on the day of your, you're going to hit those squats and there's a good chance you're going to meet those numbers and surpass them and possibly stroke out too. Yeah, I'm a major maker. Yeah, but you'll be surprised. Satisfied. That's right. You know, all right. I hope if we gave him some ideas, we could have gone down the opposite road of cutting and I think there's a lot of combos to cutting and we've talked about other things too, like the benefits of some of the new stuff like SLU and getting that into the plan and man. Try SLU before you even start the cycle, get into a position where you're getting really good benefit from that, you know, and if it happens to be you'd be a person that you get a lot from it man, you might even get more out of less of gear than. There's a top top body builder who swears by SLU and there's me who goes, hmm, didn't see anything from now. Yeah. So I've had a huge cross section of experience now, skipped with people who I've talked to listeners or the show, clients of mine, because the experience I had, which I would say is nothing short of miracle. You know, a lot of people have said like, I want to give it a try. Let's see what happens. And I've seen a cross section of results too. Some people, like few people that get the results I have, but I have seen them. I've seen people that then say, I get really good in Durance from it and I actually freaking love it in the gym, you know, like I'm getting a lot from that. And then if heard people say like, yeah, I think I noticed some additional endurance and they maybe get better fat loss from it, while they're on it. I know a guy that I work with who couldn't get his 250 mic, or a cap, so he got 500 mic caps doubled it went to a thousand. And all of a sudden he started getting super lean in an offseason, like way fast. I was like, what's going on here? So I, but then I've seen people like you and it's been few that are like, I got nothing, nothing from it. Well, I think that would lend to skips probably has very healthy mitochondria. Maybe that's it, you know? Like I think the more dysfunction you have with the mic, the more you stand to gain. And maybe it's a genetic thing, and maybe it's lifestyle, maybe it's probably a combination of all those things related to his or someone's mitochondria, but mitochondrial health. But I, like I would imagine the guy who is 50 to 60 pounds overweight who doesn't exercise at all, who eats a very processed food diet, you know, has a lot of stress. I would imagine that person would probably have more advantages using slew than any of us on the show, you know. Maybe other than you could, I mean, would you, do you think that the long COVID effect of your mitochondria? Oh yeah, more, more so than just like genetically you had poor mitochondrial health, right? So back at Swiss, the year that you came skip, was that yeah, so with the year Steve came. Yeah, we had talked about that back then that was like 2022. I think was it sounds about right? All right. Yeah. So him and Victoria and I were all talking, that's when I started looking into mitochondrial stuff. Honestly, so he did a video on mitochondrial health and at the time like it didn't do anything. Like nobody was interested in it. And I was like, yeah, you know what? This is my own personal road than I'm on. I started looking into supplements, but I was like, nobody on the channel wants to hear it. Now fast forward 2025 and like everybody needs to boost that. I'm thinking it was probably 2023 because I was there those two years. Yeah, I was he came the second year. Yeah, then I think it was 2023. You got that award that year? No, that was the next year. Oh, Victoria got one that year. Then it must have been 2022. Yeah. But I thought Steve was at the second one because I've only been into the two. Hmm. Yeah. He was at the second one that you were there. I mean, I think about it anyway. We got a bunch of other stuff guys. What about our physique critiques? We could knock those out back to back. I've got them both ready to go. I'll be curious to see what you guys have to say here. This is one of our Patreon guys. And I don't have his information. But he said, rate my physique. Quim. I'm going to show you. Let's hear those from here. It's a front relax isn't it looks like he's in decent shape. Yep. There's a front double. How long has it been trained in any background? I don't see anything written here. Okay. Did it have a back surgery? Me possibly. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Maybe a fusion. Yeah. Because those because of the lats, those lats are high. You can see the scar in right down the spine. Yep. Yeah. So here's one thing. And you know, not the way expect someone who's never competed to have Greek posing. Right. Like the amount that the dramatic effect that having good posing can change how your physique looks is almost like, you know, monumental. He has more quads than he's showing right now doesn't he? That's what I'm getting at is that the quads and even like in that rear double that you just put up in the rear last bread. Like, you know, you see how the elbows are back and the brister forward. Sure. We're not seeing the extent of his deltoids and his biceps because they're kind of hidden because they're angled forward. Hips are a little off center. So my point is is that actually, I think has a pretty good physique for someone. You know, I don't know. You know, what is PD history is or I'm going to assume he hasn't competed yet because this posing, I'll be honest, it's not great. So there's a lot of room for improvement just in like five minutes by improving the posing. But in terms of like overall physique looks like he's on his way. You know, he's got good conditioning. He's not fat. I would just say you need more need more of everything. You know, I can't say that there's like a glaring weakness or a glaring strength. Just needs a little bit more of everything. You know, you take the structure and you just fill it out. Yeah. Yeah. Not there. There could be a lot there. Yeah. Like he's got lines in his quads, you know. Yeah. So I think stay with it and keep eating, keep training hard and show us a picture next year. And let's let's do it before and after because, you know, definitely you know, have potential to be a decent bodybuilder. Yeah, he's going to want to lift that ribcage. You got anything you want to ask him? No, there isn't. I agree with the ender. I think it's just an overall. Keep banging and playing. It's a, it's a size everywhere type thing. And no, I agree with the ender when he says there really isn't anything that pops out. It's a glaring weakness like, oh, you know, his back is incredibly weak. Or, you know, the chest is incredibly weak, relative to everything else. It's just, it just looks like size. It looks like time. Yeah. Yeah. I'll throw this at him. You know, a lot of times people start wondering as they get the development. And I'm not saying he's done this, but they start wondering, like, well, should I focus more on my arms because my arms aren't, you know, good. Or should I focus more on this or that? I would say chest back in lakes. If you make that, those three things, your priority for the next five years that you're not going to end up in a position where anything else is too weak. You know, and I mean, if he grows his back, then his biceps are going to grow and his, his rear delts and his traps are going to grow. If he grows his chest, his triceps and his shoulders are going to grow. And if he grows his legs, you know, squads and hymns that, that everything else is going to come up as a result to hopefully calves and glutes. So I wouldn't get too lost in the minutia of any small body part stuff. I would see it, you know, and it, depending I don't know what he's done, but I would say, make sure that those are the things that you know you need to put the most muscle on. And if you can do that, everything else will continue to grow in the process. I would go as far as to say it would be a mistake for him or, or anybody else at this level of development to start looking at, my arms are just good as my chest. My chest isn't as good as my, because that it's, it's almost too early. Yeah, that kind of focus. No. Yeah. I remember back when I used to personal train people and I get, you know, people of all ages, whatever, and they wanted just bigger shoulders or arms, right? Oh, yeah. And, and they thought I was going to write him a plan that would focus on shoulders and arms. And I was like, you really want to get bigger arms, like, get your squad over 400 pounds for eight to ten reps. And I guarantee you're not going to complain to me about your arms size anymore. Yeah. Yeah. These aren't like hardcore bodybuilders. These would be athletes or, you know, general people that worked out pretty hard, but, you know, they wanted to have bigger arms. So I'm like, you get your, you get your squad up and you get your, your legs bigger by doing some intense stuff. The rest of your body is just going to follow. Yeah. T4H said, I'd say he should train abs more if not already doing that. And I, you know, you could, but I would say that if he grows those other things that as a side effect, the abs are just going to continue to get thicker and thicker, you know, with time. I'm, I'll actually count on, I agree with you and count on T4. Okay. And say it probably to his detriment to become someone that focuses on abs and starts prioritizing them all the time. Yeah. Yeah. I think stick to your basics right now. Get as strong as you can on your leg stuff, on your back stuff, your chest exercises. And like Scott said, the arms and stuff are going to follow. So I wouldn't have picked the, the abs at all. Yeah. Yeah. And if you wanted to, is like a side project at the end of the workout, you put it in five minutes, it's a Abs a few times a week. Like that literally would be enough, you know, I don't think it'd take anything away. All right. And then we had another one here. I'm going to see if I could find that. Give me just a second here. And this is a, Tanya who is always hanging with us. Let's see here. Something you're reminded today too. There she is. All right. And there's a little bit of background here too. She says, all right. Attached to her. My start in end check-ins for this recent pre-prep diet. Building for the rest of the year from here, then prepping for my first show, starting at the end of next year, almost likely. April to July, mid-high's 130 to 116 at the lowest in the final week. 13th year training, second year enhanced. I know you don't need a before and after, but I posted them anyway. So they're already side by side. So here is the before and after because it gives us a good reference on how they're doing and how fast are they gain muscle. Yeah, there's blunt force Tanya. She's with us now. And here she is on the screen as well. All right. It's good good physique. She's made some really good progress in just the last year, honestly. Like I remember seeing her physique even just a year ago, and she's come a long way. I mean, I could tell you that at most local shows, like she would place her, if not when a class, you know? Like a little bit tighter, a little bit tighter. But I mean, she's got a good taper. Yeah, and this was a pre-prep diet. So she's just doing this so that she can grow more muscle now. Okay. What's the difference in weight from April to July? 15 16 pounds. Okay. 130 to 114 or so. I think she's something like that. Yeah. Once again. Yeah. So here's one thing. And I tell all my figure athletes, Scott, can you point to like where the knees are with your pointer? Yes. So, and she's not doing this. Because I see a lot of figure girls and guys do it too in the front relax. They point their knees out really hard to try to make it seem like they got more quad sweep. And then it creates this gap in the middle. So I would tell her really work the tear drops and work the adductors. Really fill this out. Fill that gap in this out. Yes. Yep. And if I had a second, I could actually put together a picture of one of my athletes. It's just changing or posing. It's just how much more impressive it looks. Yeah. But. That's a side shot. It's got some crazy delts. Yeah. I mean, I'm trying to find something to be like, well, you can work on this. But it's like, you keep growing. Yeah. I think the quad, blue, him. Separations very, very good. What's that tattoo on her near her elbow? Is that testosterone? It's not, but what is that? She'll tell her. Yes. Yes. We had a listener got a trend tattoo in his neck. Clasi. Yeah. I mean, if I had to get one, it's not a bad one to get it. Yeah. I do like my trend. Maybe I'd get the D-ball one. Skip, we'll get the AnnFR. Skip, get this. It's got an answer. Get the growth hormone. Okay. That was lakes from the back. Great good lower body development from the back. And to the point that it actually makes her look weak in the upper body from the back. Sure. A little bit. Sure. Yeah. So, lats, terries, breardelts, to match the the medial delts that you got going on. Yeah. In quick pulling from the floor. Yeah. Just because I, and correct me if I'm wrong. And or if you feel differently, I don't want to see. I don't want my eyes to go to the middle traps and directors. I want my eyes to go to the shoulder blades. Yeah. For the width of the back and the shoulders versus the thickness there down the middle. Yeah. I mean, figures just a structure division, right? It's, it's not, it's a division that not all women could do. Yeah. And you could say that about, you know, the men's classes too. But, but it's, yeah. You only have four opportunities to show yourself. And really, it's the front of the back shot that the judge is a really pain. And you can't hide it all. It's not like a men's physique pose where you can twist your waist. And you know, you know, you can twist your waist and you know, you know, you can, yeah, classic. You can twist to make your waist look a little small in your front double. Yeah. So I, but look at the back straps like from a traps down that is pretty impressive. Yeah. Agreed. Yeah. So the point that when she's, when she's staged, you know, it's going to make the lats look kind of weak. So yeah. Yeah. I, I would, you know, stay away from the rhomboid, stay away from the lower back and focus on strictly lat and Terry's exercises. Because you got a good amount of tissue going down the middle of your back. From the side shot that the, the V shape is dramatic on her. It just imagine what it'll look like with more back. Yeah. I really like a quads. I mean, that's the, the tie, the tie into the glute, the lines, those natural lines. Like, when she's in shape, that's, you're going to, you're going to be someone, she's going to be someone that you don't want to take your eyes off of. And she's a girl that trains chest. Good morning. I mean, call me crazy, but I think all women should train some chest. Yep. And you're, if you're listening to this right now, that. And come to you because she, yeah. Especially when they get a boob job. They're like, I don't want to, you know, you have even, for, it's more so from an injury prevention standpoint, you get your shoulder strong. Yeah. Yeah. So what happens if you're in one compromise position that uses your pecks at all, and now they're in your tendons, and they're the weak link in the chain. You're going to tear a pack or you're going to do something. And then it's going to mess your shoulder up. So yeah. And I'm not talking like, make a chest day or like that. But I have like, all my figure girls have probably two chest exercises per week, if not, you know, yeah, at least two per week. In not to mention, I've seen it where that chest can look concave at the top, you know, in bikini girls, even, and it's not, it doesn't strike me as like a powerful, powerful, the shaped upper body that we want, you know, it's, there's a balance there. You know, you're right about that. I definitely think that they need it. She said two by the way that it was creatin, on one of those tattoos and ATP on the other. But that. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. She was good. Great physique. I thought she was, I was thought she was older. She's clearly young. You just assumed she was watching this show and interacting with us. She must be 50 plus. And no shoes. I think she was 50. He thought she was a couch surfer that she was like 20. I don't think she's that young, but it wouldn't be played to ask, right? I don't know. I don't think it's played to assume someone's gender. Oh, we had a bunch of questions. And here's a really long one. I'm curious to hear what you guys have to say. My son Anthony is 25. Been suffering from low T symptoms for a couple years now. He's also been a natural bodybuilder for almost three years now. And I'm his coach. We signed up with Merrick. Got some blood work done. His total T was 800 and one. Free test was only 66. I didn't read that initially. I responded to him in the comments. I missed the 800 and one. They wouldn't prescribe him. Tested sip or H.C.G. Instead, they threw at him a 600 dollar monthly testosterone optimization stack. At which, of course, I told him was BS and set him in the, as I set with him in on the video call with their doctor. So since Merrick was a complete shit show. I got some pharmaceutical H.C.G. Started him at 500 units three times a week, Monday, Wednesday, Friday. After just one shot, which I had him take before bed, he woke up in the morning telling me that he had had morning wood. It's been three weeks now and he's waking up with morning wood every morning. He feels like a million bucks and his physique is changing weekly, especially the amount of water he was holding. He's noticeably leaner and more vascular and he's absolutely smashing his workout sessions and he's getting massive punks. Something that he wasn't happening frequently before. The addition of the H.C.G was the only thing that we changed from the diet, the amount of fluids, electrolytes, all that. Does this need to be cycled? My plan is to increase the H.C.G to 250 units as needed, going by how he tells me he's feeling still going to, still getting morning erections, gym pumps, etc. The things guys are really appreciate everything you do in the free of roomation that you give us every week. A lot of a reaction talk from a father to a son. I'm just going to say it. Just going to say it. I mean, I was actually distracted to get about the turn the whole thing over. I don't see any reason. I don't see any reason to change it. If it's working, I don't want to say ride it to the wheels fall off, but it's not a good greedy either. If things were to slow down or if he were to start to feel different, then you could take that dosing up, but it's very cycling. I'm not going to cycle off H.C.G. The 25, my own question was this. If he was at 800 anyway, it's not bad. No. So for 10 to 6. Free test from 66 to what? No, it is 66. That's when he went to merit. It was 800. I guess I would want to know what exactly they give him. It was a full stack of tripellas. He was a sort of guess. It sounds like he needs a clear up his free test a little bit. So what's that boron or you could add a little provider in. You could add a little master on. He's not on tier tier. He's not on tier tier. He's not using the H.C.G. Three times a week. That was his answer. But I feel like with 800 testosterone levels, you've got a lot to work with there. You don't need to boost that anymore. I guess he wants to. He's 25. Yeah, I guess the question is, does he want to make the jump into the tier to the PDRome? And fast track is growth because if I was 25, no one right now and I was at 851 or something like that, that's a great number. He actually sounds like mom and dad have done a great job on his upbringing. Making sure there's a lot of foods that were free of pesticides and different toxins that are, I mean, I don't know if you see some of these averages of teenage males today. And they're 23 to 25 or 26 age range. Test-lostrum levels at 300. We've gone backwards as a species, if that's the case. It has to do with the plastics and our foods and the pesticides that are being used to cultivate a lot of the foods and just the processing of the foods. So I would tell him to screw Merrick and keep doing what you do with the H.C.G. man. I just personally say, BORON, I don't even think he needed it unless he wanted to go down a PED route, you know. But I feel like he's got plenty of actual testosterone and if we can figure out what's going on with why it's, you know, I wonder what his SHBG is. Yeah, I wonder if they have that on the labs. I bet if he did like a big full panel with Merrick and Merrick set down with him, it's a big set up. By the way, remember we were talking about the hike in prices. I have to respond to this still, but one of our listeners has a T.R.T clinic or excuse me, he has a clinic that does labs and he has a company that does labs and he said that he is not seeing those prices increases. And then somebody else said in our comments that it's these companies like Quest in lab core that are boosting those rates because now they are offering, like you can go straight to Quest and get labs and so they're trying to box these other companies out. Wait, I'm sorry. Maybe I understand. So the question lab I raising your prices, you're trying to get people do boxing people out. Boxing people out from say go into Merrick instead come straight to Quest. That's why Quest is raising their rates. Yeah, they're raising their rates. I was married. So that you go, because you can go straight to Quest and get your labs done versus going to a third party like Merrick to get your labs done. So why not they're trying to instead of you going to Merrick, they want to be able to make all the profit by you coming straight to them. But how does that encourage me to go to them if the prices are higher at Quest? No, they're not. They're in chart. No, yeah, the prices are higher at Merrick. I think they're getting higher on all across the board on us. That's what I'm seeing. What I'm saying though is that the companies, one of our listeners said it's the companies that are actually doing the labs that are raising the price. Skip, are you following me here? Yeah, but you're not being very clear. You can see that Merrick is outsourcing it to a Quest or to a lab core. So lab core and Quest are charged by the price to push America out. Yeah, yeah. Because it's the merits that are charging more. Yes, no, Quest and lab core. They're responding by all reason rates a little bit. Like, I'll find out who this guy is. He says that if he's not seeing it, if I'm going to request a lab, I would take out Instagram and YouTube ads and say, look, bring us your, your bill from Merrick or Quest or one of the other competitors and we will guarantee people lower by 20%. Yeah, that's what I would do. Yeah, why not? And you're going to get all the business because all the coaches are going to say, hey, go to this guy. Yeah, we want to build off for people the best prices they can get, you know? Plus people will be more likely to get their labs done too. When the prices start going up, you know, they're less likely to get more done. I mean, because I get it. But it's a good day's body building world. It's expensive. We all have everyone has coach. Everyone has, you know, a couple hundred dollars a supplements to get a couple hundred dollars a PEDs to get a couple of dollars a food. A couple thousand dollars a PEDs. CEDs to get the food, the gym membership. I mean, it's, it's a lot more than just the casual hobby that it was. I guess when we all started where you, you gym membership was 30 bucks a month. You're a thousand A's cost. Yeah, yeah, your PEDs for a whole cycle was 550 or something like that. Yeah, there was no coaching. You know, you had to do it. We all did incone the message boards and ask questions from people and develops some theories. So yeah, I get it. It's expensive. Question for the next episode. Just completed a photo shoot. I'm really struggling to manage the food noise and want to eat everything in sight. Even when I'm not hungry. I started using 500 milligrams of metformin and in contemplating, compdom, completing, adding a low dose of retatru tied back in. But going into this health phase, but had hoped to give the GLPs a break. Any suggestions to get past this post show a photo shoot? Hunger. Thanks. Add the TLB bag in. Yeah, exactly. I mean, that's a good idea. Yeah, the other thing I tell a lot of people is like, it's okay to be hungry. Like we forgotten that right up until the 1900s, most of human existence was hungry for a lot of period of time. You know, and it is okay to be hungry. You're going to get healthier. You know, like your lives, your lipids and everything. They're going to improve if you're, if you're eating less than what you want to eat. There are a lot of people who right now think that the GLPs, their dosing needs to be increased because they have a little bit of hunger. Yeah. And I have to constantly tell my clients, we're not trying to eliminate it. Yeah. We're trying to soften the blow. Yeah. That's all we're to, you need to still be hungry. I agree. Yeah. I brought into a couple of people recently that are more casual bodybuilders that, that decided like, hey, I'm really overweight. I want to get into shape now. I've lost 60 pounds. And I'm at a point now that I want to hire you. And I want to take this a step further. But they've lost 60 pounds by like having a very low calorie diet. And they're sustaining that from higher doses of reddough. You know, that because you can suppress your appetite enough that you're just not going to want to eat. And you end up with a meal one that's like a latte. You know. So it's like, we got to pull that back and get some more food back in there. You know, yeah. I agree. All right. Let's see what else we have here. There were a bunch. How about this one, guys? Train question. It looks like. It's like. We got a problem. So trying to the offseason. Oh, this is a comment. So trying to end the offseason. We were talking about training the offseason on this episode. It was a couple of episodes. A few episodes. A few episodes back. Fren in the offseason should only be used for feed efficiency. What it was invented for as trend doesn't stimulate proteins synthesis very well. Nandrolone is so. He spelled it with all caps and extra. Much better. Same for test, premo, anodrol, debol, etc. When trend, what trend mainly does is prevent protein and muscle breakdown, which is why it shines in prep and not in offseason. Okay. So let's get to a question. What's next? Yeah. Okay. Well, I mean, I'm just saying it was a statement to clarify and to educate. So you read it. Do you agree? Can we do? Oh, I don't know. He didn't ask a question. Do you agree with a statement? No, I don't. I'll be honest, neither does 98% of the trend taking population. So there's a reason why things develop a following and a use because they work. I see people, I think it works so well. And that's why it's developed that reputation. Like people who are dieting are getting bigger. Yeah. Yeah, 1,000%. I don't think I was clear. Not 1 word, did he say? Did I agree with him? Okay. So, but I mean, you know, and that's okay. If that's, that's a canyron and okay. But also, I this is that there's no study done on human beings to use trend alone for anabolism. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Like, it's a cattle implant. A cattle steroid. Used to fatten up. Okay, here's here's actually let me just clear this right up. What was the original use of trend alone? It was used to give the hefers to fatten them up. They gained an average of 40 pounds over the last two months before slaughter. So this isn't a catalus, a catablesum drug. It's an animalism drug. Wait a minute. Maybe the cows were eating last. And they didn't, I mean, it's just so silly. I know. I know. But my little fun with it. I mean, no disrespect to the guy. He said it other than to say, I just completely 100% disagree. Yeah, which he's a lot of is a opinion. Absolutely. And our, I'll speak for my not ours is backed by how many clients. How much personal use over. I don't even know my guess is over two decades of use. Um, okay. I eat. There's that opinion and then there's my opinion and that leaves out Andrews and Scots. And everybody else is who's because I don't want to speak for you. But I have a feeling that there are far more parallels with our opinions. Then there are with is put it this way. If the most well researched well, you know, money put into a study came out to said that trend is actually catabolic. I would rip that study up and I wouldn't give a shit. What is that? And I would keep on doing what I'm doing. Yeah, that's that right. So yeah. All right. Another kind of longest one here. I know you guys like test EQ MPP stack for growth phase. I'm curious across the board. What all you would think would good numbers would be for someone long with long-term experience with antibiotics who has been. On up to almost two grams, 750 tested 1200 mass and numerous 1.5 grams cycles. Test, test, mass or preemot with some MPP or DACA. Also, would you still choose standard EQ for this or would you if you could access Bold non-sipinate or bold ace would you choose them instead to get your levels up faster? As always, thanks for the effort putting all these shows together and posting for us. So the first part of the question is like, what would you see if he's used about 2200 milligrams a week of test and mass? About two grams at the highest. One point five at the most, how would we dose a test EQ MPP for somebody along that level of gear experience? Like 800 600 300 maybe? And you go 800 600, what? You go higher MPP right? I mean, I don't know. Like 800 tests 600 EQ and then 300 MPP per week, I think, could be at this person's gear level and experience. I think they wouldn't find that a grigious or, you know, they could probably go 844. Yeah, but yeah, I could with the E63 or, you know, 973 or 972 even something like that. Yeah, there's no wrong answer here. So 865 300. It's just my job, my job, I don't even have the energy. I don't even have the energy to put into it to make the joke even just moderately sufficient. Which way don't it, skip? I know, that's probably half the price. Yeah, I think that's the question now. Yeah. Yeah, that'll react the price for by CB. All that sort of is we need another donut step. Yeah. You know, another one of those mango donuts. And then what was the second part of the question? That was mainly, oh, would you go with a test, excuse me, Bolden on sipping eight, Bolden on acetate if those things are available? I don't know, never taken Bolden on that. I would stick with the familiarity of knowing the compound works, the way it works. It's always worked and I don't see any issue. There's not an aromatization issue, which is typically almost always the reason that I would prefer shorter ester. Yeah. Plus, you know, you can create a very similar effect by dosing it every day. You know? I have worked with one guy who was using Boldset. It was available from a source that was popular with an abord from like one of the guys that used to be around. He was not around anymore. I can't, I think it was like Boston's page. He had a source that had Boldset. And so it was like, there were people from that place that were like, you know, Boldset is the thing. You know, that's the money you want to run. So I never used it. First down. Got it from that. What a run that. Yeah. Yeah. But only you would have run it. Thought I left nothing on the table. I guess I did. Do you guys suggest every other day painting for TRT using the dog just laugh? No, that's just squeaky. Okay. I thought your dog was laughing. You really did. You thought it was a cool thing. It's a dog. It's a dog squeaky toys. He just knew you guys were talking about it because he just ran in here, proudest to be to show me his job. Did he? Yeah. Anybody I'll play with you in a minute. TRT using sip or anathate, would you do it every other day? Well, I thought we learned to sipping it. It doesn't build up levels in your blood. It disappears or something. Somebody said that in the comments the other week. Because of some a PD educator said it. Yeah, I have yet to hear that. I leave time for one week and I miss all this. I just got his gold comment. What's that? Yeah, I have yet to hear that statement being made. But yeah, I would say, I mean, it's popular now. Let's get to you remember 20 years ago. Anybody who was running a TRT or cruise still, 3 or even 10 years ago was like two times a week, one time a week. You know? I mean, I'll tell you, even, I don't, I, yeah, he said this in podcast. Like, meadows would take one shot of test to, test to, to sipping it to 50 per week. You know what? If you're going to, you don't want to deal with the shots. I don't see any problem with that. You know, most people, there's a rare person. Real rare person who maybe has some issues with estrogen that might do better with every other day or every day. But the number of people I've met in the past five years that think they are that rare person. You know what I mean? They're like, oh, well, I ever, I need to do it this way. Think it happened to one in a thousand. It's not to be me. Yeah, I'll tell you what though. I mean, I, I have fallen in love with every single day, 15 milligrams of testosterone injections because I, I swear to God, it's like kept me almost like I'm on a cycle. That's what I mean. Yeah, you, I, there is something, they should have something to do. I want to dose it once a week. I don't want to ride the little mini roller coaster. No, no, no, no. I'd rather have higher, and you can get higher blood levels with lower dosing and their stable. That means if they're stable, then your estrogen's going to be stable as well. So I put it this way. Like I was able to get my lab stone and Evan called me, I'm saying, it's a pony called me up and was like, you, your lab's were perfect. Like you got to prove faster for life insurance and this, oh, yeah, faster than anyone I've ever seen in my life. Wow. Like what the hell would you take? What would you stack for supplements and stuff? Yeah. Like you went out of his way to call me just to tell me that. Like you're going to get me mal for me real soon. Like with like the, the, the, the approval letter and everything. But I had to call you. This is crazy. I've never, usually it's a back and forth and you got to go get more testing and yeah. Yeah. So yeah, man, it's, it has kept me very stable and very, you know, healthy in the gym as well as my, healthy in the, in the labs. So I know why it says it's the ultimate turn off when I cry during sex. So, you know, I mean 32 years of marriage, I don't expect you to put up with everything. So I do my part. I go sit two or three times a week. Yeah. I'll do every other day, two, three times a week, something like that. And part of it is that, if I remember, well, that was always my issue was okay. I'll do every other day and then I miss a day. Yeah. And then I'm like, I'll do it tomorrow. It turns into like missing three or four days in a row. Yeah. So it almost becomes into once a week, but I told myself, if I'm going to commit to true PRT and stay in there for a period of time, I'm going to do it every day, religiously. Yeah. That's what I do. And I like insulin pinning for TRT, because I'm like, I don't want to go through just a normal shot. You know, for like half a mill of, seven eight, you know, also two. It's just, it, it, it takes me a lot more to get myself ready to do that shot. Like mentally. Like I just like, you've done enough of them. You know what I mean? For instance, when I'm like, yeah, I can do that. You do that. Save here. I'm a problem. You know, it takes 30 seconds. Yeah. Yeah. Versus the other one, I have to get it prepared. And then I set it down on my desk and then I do five other things. Like, I guess I should do it in five minutes. Yeah. I do my shots in the bathroom, so I take off the cap and I leave it against the water box. I'm just full of bad jokes today. Oh my god. Shut me down. Isn't it time to take us out? Yeah. Where's the outro? Where's the outro? What I need it? We're about there. All right. How about this one? We got a couple more. So I see for B.S.G. This is from Patreon. In 42 years old, I play Men's Hockey recreationally. I've gotten back into training for the last few months and I've gotten, had to gotten out of shape and heavy. So I decided to add in a little gear to help with my legs under my hockey. Move the weight a little more and hopefully get back on track. Things have been going great with 40 milligrams of anava every day, depending on the number of months I've been using. We've got two weeks of training, one CC of test 400 twice a week with the test 400 dose at 200 mill. Weight the test 400 is dose at 200 milligrams for Mill Li, which is 500 milligrams total, doing 2, 200 milligrams. No, no, no, no, no, of test under Cano8 and 200 test E. So it is 400 test. Overall, after five weeks, I feel fantastic. I bet you do. test to get about you do. Feel more like myself mentally. I'm getting stronger. Let's see. I'm trying to skip down to the question from here. Notice, muscular structure is saying, I'm looking jacked. This you I'm having. Okay, the issue I'm having is after being three weeks or so, my carbs have been, has, excuse me, my cardio has taken a dive. Thank you. All right, skating is extremely laborious. Getting cramps in my calves and my shins. So he's basically holding a lot of water. He's trying to take an electrolytes. The only difference is, let's see. Now is that I'm cleaning up my diet. I'm eating less, trying to lose weight, adding the gear. Could this be gear related? I'm going to say that as a body's not used to all the skating. You just come back to it, I'm not sure. No, he's been skating. I thought he picked it up because he was getting back into shape. No, he's got a lot of player. He's a hockey player. He's a standard. He's been doing that, but he got out of shape. And he hadn't been lifting it. So he's just getting back into it. He's just getting back into gear. I mean, as he put on a lot more muscle, a lot more water. That was scale weight up. Yeah, is it out? 25 pounds? Is it up? Is that what I'm wondering? You know? I mean, I wouldn't call 800 milligrams a test per week. An athlete's cycle for a performance athlete. That's a bodybuilder's cycle. You know what I mean? Yeah. So that's a lot of testosterone. Because I thought he'd started off by saying I decided to do a little TRT, but maybe he started off saying I was on TRT. And none of that, just 40 milligrams of vanifar and two CCs of test 400. And it's just 40 milligrams of antifar and 800 milligrams of test a week. And it's a long, long, long, long acting test with an undecanoy, right? Yeah. So it's like now he's whatever it was five weeks in, all that's built up. I mean, what would you guys say would be like a good performance cycle? Probably 400. Yeah, I was going to say half of that. Yeah. Get something else in there. Three, four, hundred. Um, the antivars shouldn't be doing anything. If it's slightly antivar, yeah. It's got antifar and it's fine a lot. Wouldn't it? Yeah. Yeah. Actually, I mean realistically, as an athlete, you don't need a ton of gear, you know, to get good performance, especially if you haven't taken it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, just that's a big jump from zero to 100. You know, like Andrew said, it's a bodybuilder's cycle. Yeah, that's a bodybuilder's cycle. So I mean, we'll put it this way. I wouldn't expect anyone of us to be able to do anything really athletic. You know what I mean? Like, especially when full blown on a cycle, like we try to move as little as possible, or at least, you know, athletes. I thought it was going to be an injury question. Yeah. Yeah. I thought maybe as hamstriggers me was baller or something. I'm like, well, you're 42 years old and you're skating. Anytime anybody, I'm here and here who is not familiar with going out apparently. I thought he just picked it up. You're going to put a certain plane pick up games of basketball as tell him. Get ready for any error hip injury because you're not used to moving laterally. Yeah. Big time. Yeah. I would say, you know what? I mean, even, I mean, I know he wants more than this. But like, if he was just on T or T, any added in 25 and avar, he's not going to get the boost he's getting now. But as a skater, like, I feel like you would get something out of 25. He could also not end up with that heavy, legion feeling that he's having with cramps and everything else. Arguably, he could perform better. Yeah. Yeah. What I'm hearing is that the actual PD cycle is detracting from his athletic performance. So if he's after true athletic performance, I think he's kind of like fell in love with all the dudes who noticed another gym like Yobro getting big, you know, that can change your mindset and that can be like, you know what, fuck this skating thing. I'm going to stick with the weight room, you know. I know he's thought about maybe I just need to take more. You know it's grown. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, let's just refer to just had some trend in dude. Yeah. Just even stare right, bro. If you haven't thought about just dance or be more. Exactly. Yeah. I mean, what I would tell him to do is probably do some hit cardio in his off time to help improve his explosive endurance or explosive Vos speed and maybe he needs to do like some endurance training to, you know, maybe some cardering. Maybe maybe some slew. Yeah. Hey, I think that lower dose test, like even like man, two thirds of one CC of his test 400 along with SLU cardering, then anvr at a lower dose, like, you know what, you're not going to get that crazy. I'm on a gram of gear field, but you were going to definitely get some crazy performance out of that and you're not, you're not going to get that like you called it skip that heavy leg at feeling, you know. Yeah. I'd be down for that completely. And, you know, the enhanced crew, the, they tried to, they did the, they juiced up a swimmer. And he was a, a former, a gold medalist, I think, swimmer and they're like, he's going to beat the previous records. He's going to do it gasped up and they had a couple of swimmers compete against each other that were gasped in the guy that they had gasped up got too heavy and he ended up slower. Then they expected, you know, because that everything I had heard like Victor Conte talked a lot about what he did, you know, back in the days with Belko. And they were, they would cycle on, say, wind stroll, like before everything happened. So the wind stroll would happen, like, leading in, then they come off of it because then they would lighten up and they wouldn't be as fast as they were. They wouldn't have the strength they had on the wind stroll. But now they're lighter and they've retained, you know, it's like three steps forward to one step back, you know. He was definitely ahead of his time for PD management with athletes. I would love to get him on the show, but I think he's too, too big for every, you know, you sure the outer, you sure he just, he's like, I'm not going to talk about PDs on a podcast. Any more, I think he used any of he has. Oh, did he? Okay. Yeah. Okay. That's how I learned about this stuff. I heard him with maybe Palombo or somebody years ago, but I read a lot of his stuff too. We kind of fascinate him. He's got that mustache, you know. He's a character. Yeah. You ever watched the documentary on him? No, yeah. I've seen a couple of things, but I don't know if I've seen like his documentary. It's not his. It's a documentary on him in the bouton. Oh, welcome. Yeah. Yeah. It's just kind of funny how a guy like him fell into coaching some of the world's best athletes, literally, legitimately the best athletes. And I don't think if I remember correctly, he was like a bodybuilder or a musician. Yeah. And it's just kind of funny. Just funny when you see someone in our world that didn't have a background of growing up with the sport or, you know what I'm saying, like PDs or a background the same way we did. Yeah. And, but somehow they're really good at what they do. Yeah. Yeah, he was kind of like a savant, you know. Yeah. That's what I mean. Yeah. All right. Well, we got to let Skip get out of here, man. For he, for crash is out. He had all this donuts. But listen, you got to learn how to better space your donuts, Skip. You know, I mean, that way we get your blood sugar up, but not so. Yeah. Yeah. You keep practicing. And in two weeks when we record again, we're going to expect that you have the donuts situation under control. Bring three donuts with you. Time of my life. So I'm going to be right. Some chicken is early tomorrow. Is that taken any more? Yeah. I'm all fooded out. What's your favorite thing that you've eaten since you've been done? There was very, very good food in Pittsburgh. The barbecue there that I had at Walters Southern Kitchen was off. Well, there's other dishes. Yeah. Not only the ribs, but the I have not had pork belly that has been this moist and this fatty. I ate a pound and a half of ribs and a pork belly. I had to stop myself because I was full enough to walk away and go, yeah, I'm not hungry. Yeah. But I wasn't miserable. And it was just, it was just butter. It was so good. It was so good. That's probably the best food that I had there. They didn't have a good bakery. You know, I do my dude do you go to Oakmont? Did not go to Oakmont. Oh, 350 bakery though. You missed out there. Yeah, I'm telling you. I'll be right in the next stellar review. There's sticky buns were insane. Skip likes to come. And it's not that get done with the show hunger. I've eaten too much good food to know the difference. Yeah. Really? And people were great. It was I'd never been to Pittsburgh before. OK. Got to the game. My dad. So nice. Nice. I had there was like a cheesecake, cheese steak place or something that was famous there. Come on. I was a Rubin. Yeah. But strongly. That's what it is. Yeah. I went to that place when I was a monster. Bro's or something. Yeah. Yeah. That was it. That was good. That was really good. We didn't get there. But we had a pommonti down here. So yeah, they're chained now. So they had a, I learned the story from moonlit, you know, moonlit burgers. They were somehow connected and they knew the history of the Phrmonti brothers. Because I thought Phrmonti started down here because they're in Fort Latterdale. But they started up there. But they had a vacation. The family had a vacation home down here. So they branched out now. They're in like I guess 60 different places with their. The family had sold the business. And they are known for their astronomy. And I think a room. If you ever get up this way, skip, we'll have all it to take you. Victorian eye. We'll have to take you to slow as barbecue. It's original Detroit style barbecue. And it's some of the best, man. And it's like it's not expensive. It used to be the thing is, man, it used to be the kind of place where you'd have to watch your car when you parked it. Oh, okay. It's right down the street from Old Tiger Stadium. Real rough area in your cast corridor. And now it's the right across the street. It was the old train station for like old, old train station. Twenty story building, you could see right through it. Like just because of all the windows are all busted out. Well, they've gentrified that area. I'm sure. Well, that's all. So here's the thing. GM just bought the train station all like you know, craziest lobby built in the teens or the 20s, you know. Read it. It was all trashed, man. Like that was the place as a kid everybody would want to go there and like get inside urban speed on King. But now, yeah, they read it the whole thing. And because of that, everything around it is kind of GM, it's their world headquarters. Now, right? It's very, very comfortable. Yeah, cookie company is nationally known for their cookies and their cinnamon rolls as well. Okay. They just won't ship their cinnamon rolls because they won't, they say that it won't. The tiger. The quality of the food won't hold out. I've never been there. I'll have to check that place out. That's very good. All right. My dog has been standing on his hind. I just sent you a picture actually of him standing there looking at me. He's the whole like dude wrapped this up with the whole thing. Time's on. Yeah, yeah. He's like you already said. Yeah, he said five minutes, five minutes ago. Yeah, that's it. Guys, we've just stamped on his on his hind legs. I appreciate you tuning in. Thanks for being here with us and leave us comments for the next episode. Of course, go to buddyberry.com, reach out to Andrew and team skip.com to reach out to skip. Hit me up at McNally. Dietz at Gmail.com. And of course, check out true nutrition.com. Porter sponsors use code think also supplement source.ca for Canadians. Thank you to everybody once again from Patreon and for another episode. Let's wet in your guys. We will see you soon. Thank you, everybody.

Some of these guys that have to make wait for classic and the things that they're asked to do and it's not that their coach wants to do it. It's just that what they realistically have to do to make wait from not eating for two to three days, who excessive diuretic and water use water loss from diuretics. And he's right, it's not safe. And I think that I've been saying this for a couple years now that the next major injury that our sports going to come from a classic guy trying to make wait. I honestly, I probably only have two clients at FTAF to be sure. Two clients that are over two million today. So many people are responding to the vast majority of people to the low dose. 100 milligrams of training a week or 500 deck of now we got a conversation. But in my mind, milligrams of milligrams, I think, I'm trying to probably the most advantageous drug to put on muscle to keep muscle while in a deficit on all scenarios. Yeah. Hate safe. Yep. What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with Coach's Skip Hill, Andrew Barry. I'm Scott McNally. Was that good? Skip? I do like it. You like that? We're doing class today guys. Welcome back to the podcast. All our programming is brought to you by True Nutrition.com. News are called Think Over There for High Quality. Third party tested supplements from the company that you can trust. All your basic body building supplements, protein powder. You get the team skip blend. Create 10 or create 10 depending on how you pronounce it. You can have either. Okay, it's problems. Create 10. And also supplement source.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. We have a couple of Patreon questions today. We've got some questions in the chat. We've got some questions. You guys left us for the last episode. I'm hanging here with coaches, skip Hill, Andrew Barry. I think between the three of us, we might have like a hundred. I might be exaggerating by a few years. I was gonna say a hundred years of coaching experience. Can I? I probably do have at least 20. We do have 60, 70 somewhere. It'd be closer to 60 than 70 I think. Right? But that's a lot of coaching experience. Skip has been coaching longer than any of us like 20 years in the world. I think. Seeing people try to get their thoughts up in a lot. Before the depression. Yeah. I've got stories. And we're here today to share our experience with you guys. And you know, I'm not gonna say that there is only one way to do things. In fact, if you ever listen to a podcast and people say there's one way to do things I would had the other direction. But we will give you our experiences. So, call me how work with you. There's a guy on the bottom of the list. He's only one way. It's not his way. All right. So we got a bunch of stuff though. And like I said, we have got questions in the feed. You guys have left us a ton of questions. But just to kick us off, I wanted to go to a story that's, I guess, breaking news in the bodybuilding world. Did you guys see this? I guess that yours is not going to be doing classic anymore. He is not going to be doing two, twelve either. He's just jumping straight to open bodybuilding. He made a post today. And basically he said, I decided to switch to the open class of bodybuilding and wanting to inform everybody on his thought process behind the decision. The struggle to cut weight for classic has become increasingly difficult to the point that I either had to sacrifice my health tremendously or my best possible physique. So I mean, that's a big part of it there. And I do think that as we continue to grow, you know, a lot of times we end up growing out of classes. But I wanted to get your guys as opinions on this as coaches, you know. And about him as a bodybuilder, where what kind of chance do you guys think he'll have and how long is it going to take him to be competitive in the open ranks? First of all, I just want to throw in there that I don't know if anybody else feels the same way. I just think he's being a pussy. I think at the end of the day, this is not about health. So you know, put it all on a lot now. I'm kidding. I'm. Yeah. I mean, I think it's a pretty, you know, I mean, I don't know what decision I'd make it that level because I've never been that level. But I can certainly see where the health looks. I can appreciate it. I guess I can believe it at that. What do you guys think? Well, let me first say that when I was at the New York Pro this year, I turned around. And there was someone standing facing away from me wearing a hoodie. Yeah. What a sworn it was Marcus Rull. Yeah. And when he turned around, it was yours. Okay. That's how big he looked. You guys remember how big Marcus Rull was. He had, he had to have been 275, 280 thick muscular, you know, kind of like, actually, there's Marcus Rull right there. Right there. Well, that's a good pole right there. Maybe they were related on some level. But all right. So a couple of things. First thing that comes in my mind is some of these guys that have to make wait for classic and the things that they're asked to do. And it's not that their coach wants to do it. It's just that what they realistically have to do to make wait from not eating for two to three days, right? You excessive diuretic and water use water loss through diuretics. And he's right. It's not safe. And I think that I've been saying this for a couple of years now that the next major injury or death in our sports going to come from a classic guy trying to make wait. And it brings to my next point that to me, classic is a look. It's not a heightened wait. Class definition. And I think the IFBB should really look at this and decide if they want some of their best athletes in classic to be able to compete in classic and look at increasing the way caps again. At least on the pro-prodivision. You know? Because a lot of guys will turn pro-arty at cap. And then you get four to six pounds depending. And the weirdest thing is you get more wait the lighter you are. And like the the the taller you are, there's less of a cap increase, which is really weird. So now okay you you have two or three years you're putting on more size your body building your growing, but now you're capped out again. And you're playing the game all over again that you're playing at nationals or USA's doing some excessive stuff just to make wait. And we don't want to see guys running their kidneys. We don't want to see guys having events backstage or not even making it to the stage. So I do think the IFBB needs to look at this if they want to have their best athletes. Now with that said, I was at the Texas the other day last week. And one of my buddies Ben Hodge was he was there to do classic and they had changed the height on him. So he had heighted in it one height and his previous pro shows and his pro qualifier. And then at this one they they heighted him in I believe a half inch shorter than than what he was at that previous date. And which means he needed to drop seven pounds in the next three hours somehow. Now some can do it maybe but he's already you know we're tired to make that what that wait cap that he was already at. And think about it you spent the money to all all the preparation fly out there. You've got your hotel like you invested a lot to get into the I think it sucks that they make you height in every show. I feel like there should be a recorded yearly you don't have sand. That's the thing is that you can they take the average of your three. Okay. And then I guess that's only going to last for that year though. But so what classic pros are competing three times a year and then going to another you know maybe the Olympia it's rare that there's some guys that are competing that often but it's pretty rare so I don't think the I think once you hit a certain height taken never taken away from you I feel like if it's been a certified height check at an IFBB or NPC national show that's the height you get to bring with you in my I could go with that difficult is it to get the height correct. I mean well I mean there's a lot of factors though like for instance all of my classic guys that are very close they're going to the chiropractic the day of wins they're doing they're hanging from like a pull-up bar or they're doing like an like I've got a inversion table for my deck here they're doing it on table oh yeah I'm looking right out it through the window they're doing the inversion tables that day they're doing everything they can to stay as tall as it can because you are gonna you can get like a quarter a half of an inch and how you when you're separating your discs like that but when you're you know what I mean and that's your your dead center you're dead right on that but let me give you back to what I was saying about Texas and Ben yeah so like you said he flew all the way out there's been all that money now this show also had open so they you know that he just switched his entry to the open okay being a really good athlete at 240 tiny waste great lines in the classic doesn't necessarily translate to the open because he ended up you know he finished in the last call out now he looked great it's just the size and density of the guys in the open are that it's that much of a difference right and I'm not saying Earth's can't do that but I just I think it's gonna be another two or three years before he's able to capture that that muscular church to stand next to guys that are you know four inches shorter than him three to four inches shorter than him but equal and wait let me throw something into you guys and I understand you guys or even some of the viewers would be like that's just insane but why have the wake cap why not just judge it based on the classic look anything to do with you yeah just don't place his eye the only thing that I can think think of is it does for the competitor well arguably for the crowd too but it could make it a little bit a bit more subjective to where you can't figure out like well why did my guy not do and as a competitor well why did I know that I was but these judges I mean you just judge it and then you take the health component out of it so if we as a as an industry not just the competitors but also the the audience and the people who support the competitors could appreciate the judging component and respect it then we would arguably just eliminate that being an issue so I see what they're doing but how funny or oddly ironic that they're trying to keep the drugs under control by keeping it in why do we control drugs because we want it to be healthier we don't want and then we're causing more problems right with the parameters that we're putting in place it's just it's an odd dichotomy it doesn't work it doesn't work it's not it reminds me a little bit of government when you think about it but that's another rabbit hole it arguably is put you in worse health because no one's hurting themselves with one individual pd shot right but you can certainly hurt yourself over the last two three days of a contest prep by over dioratic yourself you can end your life in a matter of hours if you are not taking the right elector lights have too much of the wrong elector lights and stacking multiple dioratic and need to drop another seven pounds more in three hours than you didn't before when you have everything on the line and you're three hours from the finish line yeah who's not gonna gamble at that point he didn't I was arguably I respected but he probably knew I've already taken enough right to get underneath this I can't my body can't take anymore this or I'm gonna end up in the hospital yeah I had to agree and you not only the health but also the look like the gamble on your look because you might not be able to bring it back you know we were just talking on it's just body building about Paul Demail and the health issues that he ended up with no I'm excuse me Mike Mazurado that's who it was and the health issues that he ended up with yeah yeah around Mike what's up are of all the pride written over 350 articles for lead up to us and the one that still will get nasty vicious comments coming at me was the one the article that I wrote about Mike Madarazo that and I'm paraphrasing it basically said the title was I'm not sad for Mike Madarazo so people I think read the title and then read the article to fit their narrative because they were already pissed the the just of the article was I respect that Mike made the decisions that he made followed his passion knew what the consequences were because anybody who says they didn't know that's bullshit he knew what the consequences were that was his passion that's how he lived is like any lived is like the way he wanted to it's no different than jumping out of planes or earn art racing around the track and any dies in a car yeah but we're the point being that like back then all the loop diuretics that we're being used and wrong pointed out that like because I mentioned I was like man when it worked it really worked wow and they were so yeah and when it didn't you were way yeah it was better way we need to be often 20 minutes yeah had a lot of experience with with LASIX and it would it would mix things real quick yeah 20 minutes later be it could be oh crap especially how shows are run today like where they say it's a 9 a.m. start well that might end to be on stage of 10 20 right your best look was an hour and a half ago and now you're just sitting there looking at the guys that didn't use diuretics same man why did I take it why did I like you wanted to use LASIX basically while you were staged yeah ready to go on because then you knew you had about 20 minutes yeah yeah so I'm gonna roll the dice dude in the national shows which you know even worse man you want to clock two o'clock three o'clock you know yeah like right now all right yeah I thought it was worse bringing up though I thought that this was an interesting topic I'm gonna be curious to see what he does man I mean I I love yeah as a like a meathead you know as somebody who loves to see dudes that are just embracing body building like I'm curious to see now like what's gonna happen to him what's this physique gonna look like taking the governor off and getting his big as he can yeah if there's anybody I feel like in the sport that has just this great attitude like he always has smiling yeah he really doesn't seems like you in any situation getting third place that the limpia training with Chris Bumster in the videos he just seems like a guy that he's gonna give you energy you know like he's gonna pick you up especially if you're having hard days during prep you know he's suffering too but he looks like he doesn't even feel it you know yeah and I'll say I first hand experience with a psych Rebecca stage because I competed with them in 2021 you did yeah this is his breakout you're when he he won the Tampa okay and smoked everybody I mean the Neil Curry was in second place and looked good RAP okay but no his energy backstage that same goofy smile like hey how do I look you know and like and just hitting like weird poses and like you know just that camaraderie or that there was a familiarity that had like I don't know you but he just comes up and like puts his hand behind you like how you doing you know like like one of those types of things so very friendly competitor probably you know the life of the party in any situation he's in so I'm a big fan of his I hope he does really well that's cool I saw him with Steve vigorous Steve and Victoria and I were all heading into the cheesecake factory in Vegas and he was sitting outside of the cheesecake factory I think he maybe I don't know if he was just hanging out or he just ate there but he stopped Steve and he was like hey I watched this video of yours particular topic he was like that was a really good man and you know a chatted it up for for just a minute so he and he seemed like a cool guy there so I'll be curious man maybe anyway we got a bunch of stuff though and I do want to mention I should probably bring this up straight away Andrew dude we got freaking thrashed on the last episode especially after I put that short out the YouTube short which was also the Instagram reel about John Meadows and I wore my shirt today in honor of John if you could read that it says pancakes are my protocol is my favorite shirt of John's and there was a day I remember wearing this on the podcast and he commented on Mr. Eum say and hey I like your shirt man John's on my shirt you know but we so we we had a clip where you said John was on once he see a test year round and then he'd do like you know I think it was 50 anodraw a day for a couple weeks two three weeks before the Arnold he blew up for that and you know then look good and I knew you meant the expo and and he would hold that look for a good four to six weeks after and we had people saying BS there's no way that he was on TRT year round BS there's no way that he took 50 milligrams of anodraw before the Arnold and I was like I kind of see where they're going with this you know maybe I should have specified to not as a participant in the Arnold classic I'm saying as he would say to me you know oh yeah I'm on a CC a test year round and then 10 days before an event like the Arnold or the Olympia I just throw in 50 to 100 milligrams of anodraw and I look like I've been cycling for for two three months and that's the gods on a truth because he did look like he'd been cycling hard on stuff that the majority of us would be using and wouldn't look at 10th of his good as he did so I know but look he was probably gods on his truth the lowest dose good pro and I say good pro because he placed top five at several two twelve shows in that one year that I've ever seen I mean when I say he what he did only use one CC 250 milligrams of testosterone year round for prep included and then he would add in a little bit of master on he I know that for he used trying a little bit but he stopped using it towards the end of his shows because it just wasn't working for him he didn't like how he felt on it and I say a little bit of master on I'm talking like 300 milligrams of guys I'm not talking 800 milligrams and thousand talking 300 you think he took more earlier on you know again like when he was building the muscle because he yes I mean I know that he was a hard trainer there's so many crazy stories that I've heard from him in the past and then now still from like Dave Tate of like crazy leg days and stuff I imagine he was gearing up harder back in the day yes like you know we've all seen the videos of him squatting like 650 700 pounds for like a set of eight or whatnot it's actually a video recording of a video recording yeah I don't know if you guys know yeah someone held a cell phone up to a VHS that was playing it because that's how long ago it was recorded right yeah yeah I mean he did the same stuff that all of us did but and I think I mean I'm experiencing now being able to get by with using very little and while I don't look like I'm yoke anymore maintaining a pretty solid look in strength levels being pretty close to where they were on certain exercises on 20 milligrams of testosterone a day so for people to say it's unbelievable that he would be such a low dose competitor in his later years they just don't know you know I mean I've been there with him in his house when he's preparing his job before bed there's not a lot of cc's in that syringe guys it's like some of you I'm not gonna take a video of it and you know posted on internet when when he did it but I have first hand knowledge there was not a lot of stuff in that syringe I just want to say that misery loves companies so to see you get trashed in the comments section I just sat back and kind of smiled because usually it's me you know well technically it's kind of all of us yeah we reflect on each other so when you get trashed I get trashed when it gets just trashed yeah yeah yeah I mean I think sometimes people just can't believe that some guys can use less gear than what they've been programmable and they don't want them yeah they don't yeah I don't want to believe it the fact is it's in front of our our faces you know when I knew what Phil was doing I remember thinking how many years do I have on this guy and this is his second show and I can't touch him I'm a competitor against him in Colorado with the Colorado state and it was very clear that he was if he wanted to that he was just going to blast through the ranks and at no one outside of Colorado really really believed that but in Colorado we saw it firsthand and sure shit that's what that's what happened and he was very very low dose that's back in the message board days when I mean I I would just go at it with people veterans people who would just be like oh he's on ins and you don't know you don't have any idea what he's doing I know because he tells me he's a friend of mine we've had conversations I could tell you that he didn't know what an AI was when I you know tell you what I could see with John I could see him maintaining like when you said that like my thought was like okay so this isn't his years where he's now doing YouTube and stuff and you know he's gonna like still go to the expo and look good there yeah I kind of I doesn't doesn't shock me because I do think that maintaining your muscle isn't as hard as building it you know I I think that like for him to get the legs he had he ran the gear a lot higher than that you know I don't think you were ever saying he didn't well though so let me just apologize if there's any misconception that that's what I was trying to convey because that's not what I was trying to convey I was trying to convey as Scott is pointing out we'll say the YouTube era of John's you know he'd already had his brokard and he was now making a living off of YouTube and running his website and selling his programs and he was still competing for a couple of those years and I'll say this yeah when he was competing it was a 10 week cycle to get shape because I say this a lot and I'll say it again when John started a prep he was in the kind of condition that most of our listeners and most of us dream about getting into for the show yeah I started he started a prep job thing okay and this is he ate super healthy but he would eat three to four meals a day in the off season okay like and that maintained a body weight about 230 yeah still super strong and then he actually added food into his prep until about four or five weeks out then he had to start cascading back down to really get lean when you know your body and you're controlling all the variables and you have low stress and that's a big thing is having solid family church you know a lifestyle that works for you stress was really low it wasn't that hard for him his cheeks were pretty uh pretty minimal too I think people would see him with a donut think that he threw back six donuts no he would eat one and be like oh I'm full I feel like oh guys I could tell you so many stories of time to go with the eat and I'm on paying right so we'll get you know and I remember one time I was dieting I was like eight weeks out from a show and I took him out to a sushi place and he's like oh I got such an appetite we train hard today on like yeah I wrote a chicken and some salad or something like that I get him five or six rolls of sushi right he takes a bite of each one and he was talking aw many so much he takes a bite of each one and then he just sits back like that that's me it's me and I'm like you guys be kidding me right and he's like he's like oh do I just so stuffed already I don't know I don't know to do I'm like you better eat at least another roll because I'm paying for all shit and I know I can't eat it so when you're pocket take them home when you give them to you yeah we know sushi's one of those things where it's like unless you're gonna eat it two to three hours later so yeah it's nice oh yeah I remember asking him on a podcast it was after he had hit retired and I was like so John what's and I remember we're just talking about stuff talking about he's building it's like what's your meal one look like now John he's like you know you're not gonna be impressed by it you know it's like well just late on us man he was like well I two eggs and then started with like I two eggs and like that was his protein for the meal yeah I've seen it first thing like well we had this crazy like day at Bayshore fitness in New Hampshire we were on the road together for granite softaments and my buddy Justin Randall joined us and okay we're at the hotel having breakfast downstairs and this was actually one of those hotels that could cook omelets or they had like you know nice stuff and he goes and he grabs two hard boiled eggs and then he had just like two of those little mini muffins and maybe he knew something I didn't about what he was gonna make us do on the leg day that day because or we messed up after that because I you know I'm eating my normal 60 grams of protein from egg whites and whatnot and a couple whole eggs and I'm eating 80 or 90 grams of carbs from oatmeal and fruit and stuff and you know I need like two or three hours to digest that but I don't know we go right to the gym and it's it's time to warm up and we're getting going up than 45 to 60 minutes I'm like I'm good as I feel good and good guy well I hope that that puts things at rest and if not it is what it is you know what I'm saying you can't we can't make people I mean anything they're not gonna think so there's that I've got a classic pro right now he competed this year his overall PD load was under 700 milligrams and I know people be like all bullshit and no GH I believe it okay two two guys that had said you know I don't want to mess around with trend I haven't tried it you know guys I don't want to mess around with trend until after I get my pro card yeah my go okay and we didn't need guess what we didn't need to we all know that creatin is great for muscle building but were you aware of its benefits for brain health I think it's problems creatin now it's definitely pronounced creatin it's definitely creatin impossible yeah that's pretty much what I said creatin well regardless of what you want to call it creatin plays an important role in brain health research demonstration your brain needs a significant amount of ATP to perform difficult tasks supplementing with creatin will improve phosphocreatin stores helping your brain produce more ATP so if you're not on creatin now give it a try check out true nutrition dot com use our code think over there they got all your basic health supplements like creatin protein powder everything else you can think of use our code think to help support our programming get some additional savings and get a great supplement yeah this is definitely creatin all right let's get into some questions we've got we'll go straight into this is gonna be a YouTube hot topic I think we've got one up here that was what's gonna build more muscle 500 DACA or 500 trend that was in the chat here it is let's show it on the stream yeah which promotes more muscle tissue you I'm taking the trainee 100 out of 100 and I'm not even a trainee fan trainee in trend hacks they might know but if you give me those two I'm probably you know that I'll take trend powder early through my mouth or 500 grams of of DACA and I will still put on more muscle the trend powder okay let me ask you this what if you get terrible side effects from trend like a blood pressure gets through the roof all of a sudden you're a rack and you can't sleep you're constantly thinking the guy behind you is tailgating you want you to really not you know and I'm saying all that kind of stuff would which you you'd still you think you would still make better gains with all that negative stuff go and all that negative energy you're still gonna grow better than with the 500 DACA I mean if you were to if you were to phrase it like 100 milligrams of trendy per week or 500 DACA now we got a conversation right yeah but in my mind middlegram for middlegram I think trend is probably the most advantageous drug you can take to put on muscle to keep muscle while in a deficit all scenarios yeah hey see it but yep yeah I can't argue with that whatsoever do you guys ever use I think we've talked about this before but do you ever use trend E in an off season through like like hey weeks one through 12 trend E yes yeah yeah but I don't like it yeah well okay well let's say let's look at it everywhere could you would you use say like 20 milligrams of a trend A instead or like 30 milligrams of trend A per day instead of a trend E skip I would you know heartbeats yeah yeah so so I guess the quite real question your asking Scott do we use trend for appreciable cycle lengths in the season yeah and answers yes now I haven't recently to be transparent because over with say the last three years I've had cut cycles that are yearly that I know that I want to kind of keep the trend in the cut cycle instead of run it you know twice a year but I have longer cycles than most I've got an example of where I told the guy let's hold off on it in an off season guys in incredible shape right like good aves in fact I told him at his check-in yesterday I was like listen if we had to do a show in six weeks we could like turn this around and in conservatively have him writing in three you know what I mean he's one of those dudes that just stays peeled older guy right no trains from he's got a great home gym set up you know just perfect life set up for bodybuilding and we started a cycle and everything is just at a point now where it's like all peaking you know like everything's like all you know at that high level he's telling me each week that strength is getting better the weight is coming up just a little bit now we're at that point where it came up some and now we're just kind of ticking up half pound to two pounds every week you know but all ended it all looks good and you know little bit of more water in the low back but that's where that six weeks would be like everything else looks ready you know what I mean so anyway he was like hey what do you think you know I throw in 150 treenace now so we're like six weeks into the plan and they told him I was like you know for strength and now he's telling me right now every week he's getting stronger right yeah already we're not that far into a cycle we already have a pretty decent cycle built out with EQ a little bit of mass a little bit of test I think decent amount of test decent amount of mass and some EQ I don't want to under exaggerate that but I thought to myself like if we add that in now my question to him was well like okay well where are we gonna go next you know you know eight weeks down the road what are we gonna do from there you know at that point we might just have to call it good where if we can get another good chunk of time and keep getting stronger with this for another six eight weeks and then maybe run that for another six weeks at the end we'll get like a punch up you know what I mean versus you like your once once we added as I don't want to take it back out and then have like a lull for the last month you know you're talking about saving cards to play for later exactly when progress stops and I think that's a brilliant strategy if if you're I think in bodybuilding sometimes we get too greedy you know when guys are on a roll and things are going good like what else can I do that's gonna speed this up even more like it's a snowball wrong when down a hill you know we're really well I mean right like yeah that's the expectation but it's like really hey let's take what we've been getting and let's be satisfied with that and then when the progress stops then we can always make some changes but yeah one other thing I want to ask you guys because how old is this guy would you say Scott or just give me a range about 50 about 50 okay what do you guys think and skip you the only one I believe in this chat that's 50 plus what do you think about guys well I mean I want your opinion about continuing to try to push strength up like if you let's just let me phrase it if you got a guy who's like hey he's 53 54 I'm hitting strength numbers on par or better than what I was hitting in my 30s when I was kind of taking bodybuilding seriously does that scare you at all or you like yell let's keep going it makes me a little nervous yeah I think if you have a good amount of strength you have a decent strength base then it just should be my recommendation and somebody else may disagree but then just focus on the intensity main try to maintain those that strength mechanical tension you know obviously very important but the intensity I don't I think if you have a weakness where you're just not that strong and you have movements that you're good then that's different but there it is it's comes like an elephant in the room but you have these older guys who just can't stand giving up any amount of strength or admitting this probably isn't the best approach and I've said forever I'll say again that progressive overload in the sense of continuing to to increase strength does create hypertrophy or hypertrophy depends on if you're frustrated or if you're frustrated or if you're taking creatin or creatine but anyway I digress get away as you get older get away from that mindset of I need to push more weight because that doesn't have to happen and it's a dangerous game I got a solution so this guy like when I say he's pushing strength is that we took all his exercises and we retooled everything to slow it all down and make everything a lot harder so it ended up making him initially like quote unquote weaker meaning like he had to use less weight to do the same things and and now he's getting stronger within that so I think that if you like doing that I feel comfortable with him continuing to get stronger because it's like you're not going to hurt yourself no matter what you do with the speed of these negatives you know what I mean 100% yeah that that's just I thought that you know comes across my mind when guys are even my age are older and they're talking about reaching new strength levels and it's like man I would just hate to see you tear quad right hate to see you tear a pack or something at this age right because yeah when you're younger you repair it like in some cases like like for instance some like hunter you know he's got a torn pack from years ago it's not that bad whereas if you're in your 40s and you tear something you're that's going to be pretty evident the competitor it's going to definitely be evident so that's just something across my mind and I agree with your approach God of okay let's retool the exercises let's really slow the negatives down let's work to getting back to those same loads you were using you know maybe six months ago but now with this new form cadence let me throw one more thing into and I'm gonna say this but while I'm making this statement I'm asking you if you guys agree with me how bad as I know I'm speaking for myself with my past injuries and I haven't had a lot when you consider 41 almost 40 years a dream it really haven't had as many as it sounds like when I start rattling them on I think there is always looking back in hindsight there's always red flags after there's something is torn or there's a relatively major injury here's an example if it's a quad issue tell me that your quad tendons weren't stiff or tight like meeting up or maybe your knee was bothering you a little bit or if you get a lower back injury tell me that I would argue and say this you can't tell me that there were no signs leading up to this it's like everything feels great all these reps are fluid everything's good the pumps are insane and then all of a sudden a tour this or I tour that it's not that I look back to my torn bicep I had man boobs it over 260 pounds doing chins my bicep was hurting me prior to that anyway not bad not bad enough to not train but I look back on those signs same thing with the chronic lower back issue so yeah and that's the bulk of my injuries over 41 years but I also haven't had a ton of injuries because I don't have this ridiculous amount strength either and I don't push for that I push for that until what maybe 42ish right around 2012 and that's one of the and it was through the lower back issues I thought I was literally forced not to to train legs heavy because that pressure was going to cause him did continue cause the lower back comes back on the low injuries overall injuries issue would you say also though you weren't dogmatic of trying to force something like if you do a certain exercise like leg press was aggravating your back you're saying I'm not going to do that leg press for a while maybe I'll try again press and probably five years for that reason now I may go and this is this is another good example of potentially where Scott's client is I'll go heavy on belt squats yeah because there's really I don't want to say there's no vulnerability to my lower back but my knees good but if I were to feel something I mean okay then yeah yeah just those exercises that feel good that you can almost say this probably isn't going to be an exercise that's going to create a vulnerability versus those exercises that do and if you go back to torn muscles you could probably it doesn't matter if it's a torn quad doesn't matter if it's torn hamstring porn pack we can pretty much make a list of the exercises probably six or seven exercises that are 95% of torn muscles yeah yeah yeah yeah we have one of one of my friends Paul who he's from Swiss too he's friends with Victoria and then I met him through their skip I had a double quad rupture and he literally took him to the ground during a meat he was doing that was that the Olympian shot putter no no he double quad rupture power lifter okay my mother was over it I know what he said joke but I don't get it he didn't get it oh I thought he did I'm sorry forget it what was the joke he was very fond of he was a presenter right and what had thought he was very fond of someone close to you oh no that's right yeah there's a few of those guys yeah it's probably been more than one yeah but yeah so anyway though he but he literally he's a young enough guy he came back and I think it's like some 16 18 months later he just competed at that that gold's gym classic show that happened in North Carolina his legs are back like his legs aren't like the craziest leg ever seen yeah yeah yeah yeah I was on his show last week oh you were awesome man yeah no like yeah I mean we were going over his injury and everything and I'll tell you what peptides are amazing dude he did everything he made his recovery a full-time eight-hour job yep from the minute he got hurt you know what I mean how old is he 30's okay late 30's yeah yeah I'd say let's say mid late 30's you guys know you guys know Matt Chrisman right I don't know the name I don't know he's like the body specialist at my 40 he works on all of us at the gym but then like you know I know tons of coaches fly him out to like Austin's out has him out a couple times a year to work on his local athletes and he goes to the Olympia and he works on a lot of WWE athletes and travels with them anyway so he he ruptured his quad stepping on he was trying to separate his dog from a snake in his backyard and he stepped on the snake which as you can imagine that slippery you know knees going one way muscle and and tendons going the other way he had a full quad rupture and I want to say it was like not even three months after surgery he's doing leg extensions again not a hundred percent yeah but here he is now three months past starting to wait train again you can't see a different like his strength is right there he's moving around again like he was before that's the way Paul was with the double rupture it was like six weeks later he was leg pressing and you know when I think we saw him it was like 10 weeks after at Swiss and he's just like walking around thought of limp you know both of these guys roughly the same age uh Matt's probably like 3334 okay why I asked that there is I think coming from the older demographic because I've been through a few decades doing this I do think that there is a psychological component that when you're older the injuries are not as easy to compartmentalize they stick in your brain I know there were times where I thought I can see that if like this kid and this is a year after I was rehab that thought I could end up shutting in the shower tomorrow if one of these reps goes wrong and you know I wrote about it extensively because that's what I had to do a couple of times as embarrassing as that is but it was that bad because I couldn't sit down on the toilet short we have to or I got help you know um woke up in the morning because I was too stiff if I sat down I couldn't get up I would my lower back with spasm so anyway the point being is it's harder I think when I was younger looking back at the it was almost like oh this is a road black I'll go out meet Burger King and you know have some drinks with my wife here for the next you know three months yeah it sucks I can't train but I'll distract my brain and I'll be right back at it and I was and everything was fine but later in life those things weigh on you more and it becomes not only a physical vulnerability but a psychological obstacle as well it's there it's much harder to get around that without your brain logically saying this could happen today this 100% to the next set it's harder to do that I think or it's just me I mean there is that too no 100% I think that that psychological thing does exist for people I do I think it does too yeah I think that's a fact certainly does I mean I I I I don't I told you guys before every time I do like a hard like set in particular I kind of have this like mental checklist slash prayer I guess of like okay please not let this be the set that does me in you know work say it's the same thing set up the same way the same music everything has to be from my toes to my ankles to my knees to my hips to my lower back to my abs that you're telling yourself tight yes yeah tight that's good yeah yep I like everything locked into the machine is as tight as I possibly can air is out the right way my abs are set the right way just all these little things that when you're in your 20s you just rip it and bang yeah you don't you don't you don't think about that crap yeah rolled the hips I don't keep it tight yeah I'll set it out loud but I know people are like what the fuck is he saying same I know people looked at me like who's talking to you know yeah we're talking to myself sometimes the best conversation I am all day yeah you got a question I'm Adrienne from George and he says running my TRT crews of 210 milligrams of test in 105 DACA plan on running a cycle of 600 test 300 DACA 300 EQ in a few months when the time comes to jump on the blast doesn't make sense to keep the 105 DACA and make up the difference with NPP or just up the DACA I like to over complicate I say old guy old people say six a one half a dozen others I was going to remember how to word that right you should get that say it because you sometimes I mess it up when I say it but I agree with you if you like DACA because you seemingly do why not just stay with DACA yeah hey Andrew who is reasonable for doing a GI map I'm looking on line and they seem to be $300 to $500 is that normal price or is that a rip off thanks you mentioned GI maps in the last episode yeah give me two seconds all right I got a rate I texted Paul O'Nean too and I was like hey how old are you we're talking about you on the podcast we'll see if he gets back in time all right and maybe we can put this in the notes but if people go to ax holistic medicine dot com back slash gut hyphen testing back slash you can get everybody's going high I'll talk don't do it now because we might lose I know I'll do it after the show we put it we'll put in the show notes but yeah this one is 365 and then they do a test kit and a console for 500 bucks I charge more for the console so you might want to go with them but if you want a plan that's like geared towards bodybuilding and GI maps I'm your guy all right all right so 300 doesn't sound like it's too much 360 right so that 3 to 500 that's not a rip off no so here's the thing is you'll a lot of times because you can't just order the test with the exception of this one website that's why I scoured the internet for like hours one day to find a one site where they don't require you to be a provider you know a medical provider to order the test all these other places like HRT clinics they'll charge 500 bucks they'll slip in an extra hundred dollars on top of the cost of the test and their other doing is putting your information into GI map plus they're sending you the kit you send the kit back to them and then they're just getting results and giving you a little feel about it so they're they're they're taking 150 bucks off the top just to order you the test so how much does it cost me under if I want to like shit in the box mail it to you 365 to me just send you a quick to answer I went to the doctor I had to go to the ER almost two weeks ago all right I had like either the worst food poisoning it had to been food poisoning like there wasn't a drop of food or time left in my body okay like both ends sometimes at the same time which was real hard to see like yeah you just like hmm oh shit I'm getting in the shower like this I wasn't bad for again way so I knew I knew my my kidneys were hurting okay that's how done I needed it was so I knew I had to go to the ER and get some some IV bags and I'm looking at these prices and I was even joking with them when they're like oh we should give you some Tylenol for the fever blah blah blah blah and like oh is this like one of those 175 dollar Tylenol pills and they're like oh no nothing like that sure enough it's a hundred forty six dollars for one Tylenol and you're kidding me and I'm that person that I broke down every part of the bill that gave me and I'm like nope I can get this yeah I see on the medical website you can get this for 17 cents this right here I'm breaking all down the medical costs are just out of this world no wonder people go into debt I mean I could pay it but I'm still gonna screw you know scrutinize over it yeah but it's no wonder that people go into medical debt in this in this country with what they are charging for this and that all right about this one training question my lats are pretty okay from the back in the rear but they suck in my front shots what are the best exercises to improve the taper from the front double and back in thighs I would first ask them you should have said pictures for one thing yeah because lats are two different things back in lats two different things and is your rear like if you are your rear double and your rear last spread shot like it's rare that someone has a good rear double I sorry rear last spread but they don't have a good front last spread at least a good front last spread so I'm wondering if you're having issues with moving your shoulders and your scapula I'm kind of doing it which no one can see if you have an issue showing the tissue and it's not just fairly weakness because it's just rare that someone has a good lat development in a rear last spread and a horrible front last spread no what I mean yeah so I'd love to see pictures on that and and the skipper rings up a good point like back and lats are pretty much different in the sense that when you say back skipper you're probably talking like the muscles of the rhomboids and and maybe some of the terries and the stuff that jumps out at you in a rear double bi-separate yeah so I would agree with you that statement I think pictures pictures don't lie it's always good to see what we're looking at yeah and just to piggyback off of that from the front it's not that you're not gonna see lats but from the front if you're talking about wit and back size from the front you really are talking more terries and the muscles of round the shoulder blade that are going to round out yes the lats can still be seen from the front but the lats predominantly cover or the area in space that they cover is not going to be seen very well from the front so and the reason I bring that up isn't to be you know mr smart ass and correcting you know the guy who asked the question is much as understanding the musculature of the back before you can break down how you're going to approach making your back musculature bigger and in what areas and and that sort of I mean we could just say you want your back bigger but let's just work on those directors oh wait that's not gonna have anything to do with the front last breath you see what I'm saying yeah you know yeah how about this one from the live stream um how do you guys attack TVA training not stepping out of the stage just wanting to age gracefully yeah I could look it up but I have the three of you you're the best right here to ask you could look it up um I think really you got to do a lot of um pikes plus planks well I was going to get there I think people are expecting oh you got to wait at crunches or you can do but no I would agree well Scott why don't you take this one I just could say planks that was by beginning in end that was it yeah that's my number one at least and just say that the vacuum's help yeah I was yeah but you get to the point because I did you get to the point where they just don't help anymore yeah you have to have some bit of resistance you know some bit of weight and you know we got this question I came across this question the other day a couple weeks ago uh and I want to make sure that I understand or say that say this right is it hollow planks what's out you know I'm talking about it's a gymnastics type move yeah and I looked it up because I wasn't even clear on what it was I thought oh this is good so I'm just recently putting them in to see if this is gonna and I do something similar basically and this is the best way to explain it put yourself in a lying lying leg left position on say like a bench right goats at the end of the bench and you're in the stretch position but you're attempting a bit of a vacuum and then as you come up it's just that that that howlowness is referring to the TVA pulling in but now you've got resistance because you're holding the leg and Scott you may have a good point plank same I mean it's arguably the same thing but just in a different position at least that with those two movements you have resistance versus I mean there's resistance you know with a vacuum but it's not I mean there's a thing you see what I'm getting it's the same exercise as a plank but now you're adding a resistance component right because the with the lever arm being your you know your feet just that the simple weight of your feet fighting against gravity yeah adding a resistance component whereas you don't you don't have the same resistance component when you're in a plank so so I would say yeah the plank so we're good starting exercise and then how do you say the elbow howlown? okay I believe I'd have to go to the right what it is it's a how I believe it's a howl point it's bad that I don't know but you guys know this your shows all run together and the things you talk about because you talk about a million things and you can't pull it yeah but it's a howlown plank I believe yeah but that would probably be the graduated exercise right there's like you can do a reverse plank too off of a bench where instead of face down now your face up basically yeah with the plank and that's that's to me the next step yeah I just looked up hollow planks and I see there's obviously like a bunch of exercises and that looks like it's even a step I think you're thinking of the same things got where basically you're in a like if you see one there where they're lying on a either on the floor with their legs up slightly or on a bench like they're doing a leg lift that's I was doing a max of dentally you know since that I just would make sure that I tried to pull in on my TVA when I was in that extended position with my legs and then as I brought my legs up I don't have the ability I don't know you know I'm not I can't do like a rocky rocky three crunchary was up in the the loft you know doing that I did I tried them when I was younger as a teenager when the movie came out it was all I could do what I can do like two of them but the point is is when I do leg lifts it's hard for me because of all these years and I'm 55 yeah lose that TVA strength as you get older and then of course if you're battling with the 90s version of forced feeding for growth oh yeah we have distension you know like if it's a day after you know a big skip load especially during proper there's I'm not even going to attempt to train abs yeah because I have that bit of distension that is just like no I don't need to do crunches with a turtle shell I'm going to wait a couple days I worked with a guy who for a long time who had a lot of gut issues and as a result he had major distension and it what part of for his for his situation he had to work on the gut issues to be able to fix that because he was constantly getting that that bloating out for me I saw the absolute worst like deconstruction of my TVA after I had gotten sick and it affected my breathing because in order for me to breathe I just had to like breathe through the stomach you know this is the way I was breathing and I just let my stomach hang out in order to be able to breathe at all like fast forward eight months and it was pretty ugly so but you should be breathing through your stomach not like that man not like that maybe not to that degree I'll just say in as I know when I was younger yeah we were taught to breathe you know ribcage no no and it's like and when I say young like young like ten and the reason I remember that is I went for a choir I couldn't say yeah I know the guy inside was laughing like bro take up baseball or body building or something because singing is not in your future but I had a couple friends who were in it I thought I wanted to do it anyway he told me that proper breathing at that point was you know through the ribcage and that the stomach that I remember thinking just recently when I heard exactly the opposite or not recently compared to them like oh man he was wrong I wish I knew his name yeah he just don't want to let you know you want to be able to fill the lobes of your lungs up but for me you know it was was one of the things skip remember at Swiss boom I was learning about breathing through the low back and that was a huge one trying to figure out how to get that air to come because I was just like literally man I'd have to leave my stomach just hanging relaxed at all times you know and it just even doing it now it trips me out but literally like then me trying to do anything that took core strength like it was like I just shake so I started getting into planks because I got into pushups it was by accident and I was like oh you know what I'm getting back into training what if I had to do some pushups because that's a chest exercise right and I'm not very strong right now so I started doing pushups and my whole body was vibrating do intend pushups and it's not because my chest wasn't strong you know what I mean right so that was a step for me but yeah I think too that like it's age but then also stuff like Andrew you've gotten into all the got stuff you've talked about that a lot here on the show I think that's a huge factor with TVA and then like for me and I don't know if that applies to as many people but like breathing issues you know yeah well definitely uh it's something this off season that I am looking into very deeply because of coming off of this last diet phase with the distension issues that I had this can't I mean I really got to the point where I thought this can't continue like this is bad enough as it is it can't get it can't get worse you know I'm looking into that the doctor brings a mind I've got a couple clients that work with a vacuum coach or like a a Dom okay coach and I can send you the information skip it might be something worth I don't know she speaks English that's the only thing my clients are Brazilian and see I'm not bisexual so I mean I'm not bilingual I get them sped either yeah it's got I just sent you a text message of an exercise of a buddy sent me I think it's worth showing on the show on everybody yeah give me a minute I'll get it pulled up and I'll tell you too with the the planks I should have mentioned this that then what I had learned from it from Victoria is that a lot of it has to do with putting it together breathing through the low back while you're doing the plank because you you know you don't you want to keep that stomach tight yeah and and so there's like some breathing training for me that goes on with the plank exercise okay and there are some people listening right now who have completely tuned this out and that's unfortunate for them not us yeah it's all for real people approach the breathing well it is because people approach breathing or the topic of breathing much like they approached the topic of cardio like oh I know how to do that I've been yeah since I was one right it's like you don't get it you don't understand what you're leaving on the table and even veteran trainers veteran athletes will have problems with their breathing yeah check this uh like extension out oh that's brutal man yeah that's a full stretch yeah there's a lot of wrecked them in there yeah everybody tries to send it to me up into the holy ground and that and look at the um the weight it's not a weight stack it's actual weight so you know that that's like heavy yeah yeah oh I just I just got a kick out of that I'm like man why don't we see more leg extension machines like this yeah this is the first one I've seen like this I think yeah that's wild man and I get it because I feel like there's times when I'm trying to like sit back to get that you know what I'm saying get your feet further under get that stretch they have that pad now to get your feet further back to I know Kubo's on the commercial for that actually that bad yeah I don't know if he knows he's on the commercial for it they gave him one and now he's on the commercial though they not only am I glad to see that they actually did come up with something like that but then now they need to take the seated leg curl they need to push that pad forward yeah so which pad or even an adjustable the back pad yeah well why can't you make an adjustable leg extension or like for exactly that goes up and down you can adjust it just like you would adjust the depth of the you know how far up you are it it does strike me as add sometimes the minor things that we miss wouldn't be cost prohibitive when you make the exercise equipment anyway yeah I agree all right quick when I guess we can all throw in our opinions on it how long before you started seeing Ben let's let me reword that let me just read it away says it how long after starting redda before you know that it's working I think like six days when you start to I was gonna go a couple weeks but I couldn't remember I don't think it takes very long I remember it kicking in very very quickly but you don't pick it up like you have to really be looking for it so I think after a couple weeks I was like yeah I could care less whether I ate or not like what yeah yeah I think I mean I know some people without knowing the side effects that I've given it to my wife noticed that like two days later like I don't even want to eat yeah what's up with that look oh yeah it's blunt in your appetite you know she's like it works that fast I'm like yeah I guess it does for you just I don't have to take yeah I noticed like after a couple doses because I started real low but once I got up to a milligrams twice per week after that second milligrams I was like okay I get what they're saying now I get this but now I have a client that finished the contest prep and he's obviously really hungry and he was like hey you know I really want to try it for the rebound and we put it and I was like well we'll do two milligrams and I was gonna tell them to break it up he just went ahead and took it took two milligrams straight away on Monday and he was like when's it gonna kick in because I'm just start that so I don't know man for him you know what I'm saying like is he gonna get anything out of two or is he gonna need to take 10 to call that hunger on the red of note have you guys are you pulling it out of some people's plans because it's actually creating the opposite effect what opposite okay so I have I think three people have completely pulled it from where it was working well in the offseason or look we'll call it the the pre prep phase okay and then once we really start dieting their blood sugars one oh eight one oh seven one oh four one oh eight really yep and they're not getting any fat loss effects their weight in fact the weight is going up okay wow now my hypothesis is two two two reasons one it's having such an effect on the gastric imprint rate that it is slowing down digestion so much that it's backing up meals meals are compounding on top of meals hurting insulin sensitivity and leading to those higher blood sugar and lack of weight loss interesting the other one which seems even more likely to me is that because remember breta is a triple action agonist it's GOP GIP and glucocone pathways right the for some people I think they get such an exaggerated glucocone response that it's causing yeah you know I'm going with us it's causing those super high blood sugars and it's actually causing them to hold it it's it's taking out of any type of metabolism and it's just straight and anabolism and yeah it'll tell you real world example one of my guys we were just you know scratch our heads trying to figure out on pulling calories out of cardio weights going up and we're like what the heck is going on I'm like you know what pulled right out within seven days he was down seven pounds damn it's weak he was down another four yeah like he didn't start pooping so that that he was uh he wasn't like super he didn't notice he was super that no because he re-rewarded report that so now that that was one of the issues it was pointed out and oh his blood sugar 84 78 like was in a week so then I started using out of approach with other people that I'm like things are moving away I think they should be right now and and I immediately said okay let's pull the red out same thing down three pounds for a female down you know blood sugar is back into correct ranges so I do think that for some people truthers appetite is probably a better choice than a reticure tide even though the you know side by side studies of semi-true's appetite retta show that retta showed the the largest total weight loss in in the controlled studies I do think for some people truthers appetite or even semicuteite will be a better option I'll tell you what I have noticed since um starting this you know reverse out or rebound everyone called yeah is blood sugar levels are fine I went back up because I had moved down to and I'm not gonna give specific dosage as I have to do all the math I'd base it on units per day at 10 units per day it was 1.75 milligrams per week so 0.25 meg per day okay I went from 10 units to when I got right around that 68 week mark out from the show I started back in it off because I'm like there's just issues going on with the stension gastric emptying is just not working well like I even just regular meals even though I was low carb and all that sort of stuff we're just an issue anyway ended up back and done a tight-take down like a unit a week got down to about two or three units I can't remember I went back up immediately to five after the show and now I'm at seven for the last couple weeks since we've been for five weeks and what I have noticed is this there are no gastric emptying issues I mean I'm moving through meals fast as and that goes same with the high carb meals so I don't I can't explain it I'm not at 10 like I was before but I will be going up again I mean instead of going to 9 maybe I've ordered 10 but I'm curious to see what if this trend of the gastric emptying not slowing down it's just not slow it's arguably faster so I don't know how I can't explain it I would say your overall food volume is going up and the bread of dose just isn't high enough to have and keep on not everyone's gonna have the exact same side effects like some people aren't gonna get the appetite and the effects in their in their hypothalamus until they reach a certain dose right but I did expect similar effects from what I had the dose before maybe not the same but not comparing it to someone else but just comparing it to my experience so that that's what I was surprised I'm like wow were you seeing the day and night were you seeing gastric emptying rates slow down before oh yeah yeah well you were eating a lot less true I don't know it's a lot less it's not like I'm at 5000 calories now and I was at 2 before but but you're right I was eating less you know and I had the lower card days and the cardio which I'm doing very minimal cardio because I can get leanest and staley is very little to no cardio which is the way I prefer it yeah I would my argument would be that it's just the even if it's a 25% increase in food volume over what you were doing when you're previously at these higher doses not that like your doses are high by any stretch but I would say that's probably the component and also you know you gotta think when you're eating more food there's more water in that food you know yeah the only other thing that I was thinking was this and it's certainly a possibility and this is always the hard part about you know whether something's correlative or whether it's causative but I'm TRT and I my okay I just cut in half two so arguably and I'm progressing griff feel like a million my recovery my sleep score my HRV everything is coming up I don't think I'm gonna die this week I think I'm good to get through Sunday but that can play a part too the fact that we've talked about this about me before and and other people as well but I brought it up about my situation where I feel like my system runs more efficiently yeah I'm so much less gear feel like a million books in here I mean it's a simple reason for that is that your liver is just working more efficiently you're having you're probably having better bio flow so your your recycling hormones better you recycling waste better so yeah I mean it all make it does make sense it's not like one of those like this is just so weird I'm doing this and I can't get you know what I mean like I feel like yeah yeah without that I added you know yes that was a you know what I've seen is recently with redda is two guys now so it's enough that it it's either a coincidence or this is maybe happening two guys that hired me that we're taking high doses of redda I'd call them high like up to six plus milligrams and under eating and you know not able to reach their goals because they didn't have enough food in their plan and now in order to get them started we've had to pull the redda back in order to be able to get in more frequent feedings with even keeping the food like under what I would want to them to eat but getting them like almost like creating book markers you know what I mean book it like place holders for meals that are pretty small and that as we get the redda down further we can build those meals up and build their metabolism up so they can actually can reach their goals because right now they're not eating enough to lose the fat they want to lose you know yeah but clients do you guys have that are you know they're starting to say I mean I would say two milligrams a day but I honestly I probably only have two clients at F check to be sure two clients that are over two milligrams a day so many people are responding the vast majority of people to the low dosing and then when they go up it whether they're just coming to me or they have built those dosages up to the reef or six I mean some of the asked to go to eight I'm like just it's not if it's not doing anything it's six like it's not all of a sudden gonna just work it just seems like those initial dosing protocols seem for redda seem to be way too high it reminds me of melanotan when it first came out how that was so overdosed and so we were just slamming our systems was so much more than we needed and I'm wondering if that's not the case with the redda I've got two people two people above that and they're both those same guys I was just talking about they came to me taking more with two's been about what I'd go to now that said if somebody still has appetite issues like like they're still trying to control appetite further beyond that then I'll add in a micro dose of some of the glute tied with it and use that just for the appetite could you know the other thing you could do is add in a cradulinotide what's that do it just hits the it just hits the the brain for the appetite suppression has no other effects on GIP or GLP you know what I have one guy who mentioned that to me recently yeah I've been putting a lot of people on that post-show versus redda okay recently because people that are just having issues with like bingeing stuff yeah a little month in issues yeah yep so that's and our friends over a pair of ballach happen to have they might know where to get that well so I want to point out here Tom Wright's Andrew you can get GIMAPs from synergistic labs for way cheaper okay I'm looking it up and it says here they're 429 and I believe the price I just mentioned was the 365 yeah so I'm trying to figure out how 429 99 which is way cheaper than 365 so Tom if you could explain that to me all right we got to get this thing wrapped up but I can't not take this question Scott what's your current carry setup I got to answer that one I am currently carrying the SIG X macro legion which is like the SIG D365 legion or X macro it's a great little 17 plus one I'm using the Philster what's that it's not little it's my camera micro whatever it is it's micro carry that's little you got 17 rounds 17 plus one and I put that in my Philster Nickmore and Nickmore holster I love it carry it with GIM shorts with dress clothes I don't care got it all what about you guys I'm either my cancamentae SF or cancamentemcy nine depending on what I'm here yeah yeah but I'm kind of looking at maybe one of the smallest accados possibly so it's either that or my staccato C2 it's one of the two that I'm carrying because I just love C2 I love my staccato C so much and it's just a little bit big for when you're wearing you know workout stuff so um you're your big guy Andrew you put on that big like two X leg day your three X leg day shirt for you you know you big you'd be good man I like I faith in you on unlike you those got I don't I don't wear my piece while I'm actually squatting I love your video where you're like no see guys you can totally carry I'm in my gym and I'm doing my exercise and I'm moving and oh by the way I'm kidding somebody got really upset by that I triggered somebody well yeah yeah he was like you don't need that night I don't know he's like giving me all the stats we're yeah I'm not gonna get an argument with you and I can give you stats too you know like no man I think people think when you carry your certain type of way and anyone that I know that carries they never want to have to use it God no man it's like a fire extinguisher you don't want to have to ever you you hope your fire extinguisher expires long after you die right I was just want to live today because Dave and England like they obviously have no concept to that I don't know like listen I want to I'm even more careful that nothing happens like if somebody cuts me off exactly like it's cool bro you know go ahead you know you're all right I'm not gonna start anything I consider like a condom like I'm carry a condom but I don't I don't really want to use it but I like fire extinguisher I just think it's better here's as good I have a okay RDP but it's too big and this is gonna be really bad so go ahead and beat me out but it won't fit into my Gucci bag oh it's gonna be gonna get you the filster nickma I got the timber I got my timber all took care so that's your first gun that's your first gun what I know it works doesn't but that's the funny that's the joke it's like I'm not necessarily gonna have to fire off any rounds I'll just pistol whip a bullet you know I would also tell Dave if you like because I see a lot of videos about rampant crime going on over in the UK and it's like and there's always jokes going around too like they're gonna send a social worker out to to stop a guy who just smack and then you know you know yeah like you know bro's in your house with a knife like oh hold on sir let me call the the cry closet people to come over here and analyze your life while you try to rob me and tell me of my possessions like yeah let me do that so I just don't get you know people from the outside of the world I don't I don't want to have to rely on police where the average response time is like 7.8 minutes to get to your house because no criminals gonna wait no you are your own first responder guys that's the lesson to learn well Scott to you guys know I'm incredibly socially liberal but I'm about as pro gun and pro money and pro business and pro corporation and not having to pay taxes and pro foreign policy did you guys see that post I made on Facebook little while back about my mom's church no my mom and dad's church they they brought their dog over for the weekend so they could go visit my sister but my mom's like super plugged in with the church they both are so they happened to not be there that weekend there was an active person that came to their church I read about our song on the news yeah in Wayne Michigan thanks yeah thankfully they were prepared and one got he was you know cracking off rounds at the church heading inside we're all the families and kids we're one of the members saw what was going on hidden with his car somebody else came over and and extinguished the threat with his with his concealed carry so thank goodness that there were people there prepared the police got there in like two minutes but a lot of damage could have been done in two minutes so yeah two minutes is plenty of plenty of time you get off 16 17 rounds so good for him yeah yeah I'm with you guys so you know and it's not to me even a political thing it's just that if you know there's a lot of crazy people out there there's the way I see it and okay that's fine you guys do your thing but if you want to interfere with my life or the life of the people that I love and you don't take my life into like if you don't have the the same respect for me that I do for myself then I at least want to say in the matter I might not be able to do anything but I want to have a say in the matter I want to be able to take your soul I want to be able to stop this around and reach yeah that's all I look at it that one wakes up thinking I'm going to kill a bad guy no but you know the time is it but in the moment really we can all talk about stopping the threat but the reality is we're shooting to take a soul I'm just I would believe you know the increase the bleeding the the far flip-off thing is like you value your stuff more than than the criminal's life and it's like no the criminal valued my stuff right or that they're on life that's that's how I look at it I don't go and do things by adding other people's property or to them expecting good results out of it so I don't feel like that's a far far right thing to think that you know and you know I'm socially liberal and I completely agree with you 100 percent if you're gonna come and take try to take my stuff or you're gonna try to hurt someone close to me you're not getting away with either one of them and on that note guys we appreciate you tune it in if you're still listening if we still have you here as an audience go over to bodybarry.com to reach out to Andrew for coaching get a GI map done with him reach out to team skip.com to hit up skip for some coaching Paul O'Need by the way is 38 years old so he's yeah we were we're all kind of right there 38 years old and he won the 35 in over classic masters at at his show this past weekend so shout out to him I'm going to get some pictures up on the show so you guys can see what he turned out like and of course go to true nutrition.com use our code think over there for some deals I create him and create a team and of course go to supplement source.ca if you're in Canada thank you everybody from Patreon think we got a couple more patreon questions for the next show I think I didn't mention hit me up big naly diets at jmail.com and for another episode of Blood Sweat and Gear we will see you soon leave us questions for the next show guys yeah it's good to take you soul.

every shot every shot is very shot so I mean you know you can criticize the torn bicep because the front double was kind of you know it hurts the front double by 96 his arm had recovered a bit like it was a lot better than it was in 94 he had just torn it so like it was he legitimately they could have you know taken the title from him and it would have been arguable for sure a 95 it was still like you know a problem visually 96 he got a little better here hey everybody welcome to it's just bodybuilding