of its just bodybuilding Q&A episode Scottmignale Dusty Hansha Miran Park low. We're gonna hit the questions and you know catch up on the Instagrams and all that stuff. I had a very meaty dog that I was kind of attending to there. But now he's moaked away giving me the sad look as they do. He where they stop and they look over their shoulder. He's gonna keep walking. You know what you're doing? He speaks fluently with no words. Yeah, he said a lot. My dog actually huffs. My dog will huff. Yeah. I've seen that meme where it says like you take a lot of deep yourselves for a dog that does make the right. You a lot of heavy ex-paly going on around. Yeah, yeah exactly. I put up a question box and I'm just trying to find it. There we go. It's really rock. Yeah, I'm ready to rock. You guys got him too. We got some YouTube questions Scott. We've got no YouTube questions as of this week. And get some stuff. Anybody's fault other than my own because I only put out one episode last week with the Dennis Wolf episode, which we did get a lot of feedback on and get this a channel that about we're about to crack 18,000 subscribers. So if you guys haven't subscribed yet, if you're watching this, definitely like share subscribe comments and ring the bell. There you go. We've got several body building podcasts that come out each week including these guys. A couple times when I remember to put them out. Three times. Yeah. Sometimes. And remember everybody, you know, mutant is supporting the show now. We're not going to like rattle on about them, but you know, they are supporting the show. And they're really cool about it. And just remember, if you go on their website, I am you know, com dusty 20 or big Ron 20. Saviour money. That's it. Maybe yeah, save you some bucks. But yeah, they're supporting the show. So it's very cool to know that and, you know, Scott's happy. It's great. Yeah. It's great. It's an honor, honestly, to have a company like mutant being a part of the program. So I am happy. Yeah. Yeah. It's cool. We've got to, we've got to, we've got to talk about our weekends because I have a story. So I, of course, I have to ask you how is your weekend just so I can come last year. That's my turn. Well, I was excited about your story. And I was a little irritated that we didn't cover it on another episode. But yeah, so my weekend was pretty basic. Nothing exciting going on here. Just, you know, basic parties. So can we get already to the flat land situation? Yeah. We can do it. Well, we had a jam. And a jam is just a jam is just, you know, kind of just send a message out. Everybody, we're going to have a jam, you know, at this location on this day. And, you know, a couple of guys from Alberta came and, you know, you know, what guy from Whistler and, you know, guy from, like, you know, people from hours away. There's not that many flat land riders, right? There's only like a small number of real flat landers, you know. And so we, yeah, had a jam and it was really cool. Like, I think about like, 15, 20 people showed up. I don't know. Over the course of the day, you know, some people came and laughed, right? It was from noon to like seven. I think they went to like seven PM. I showed up from two to five. So I was there for three hours. But, um, it was fucking hot. It was, it was 33, 34 Celsius with like maximum sun exposure. Like relentless, like, yeah, did just be lathered and sun, I was just sprayed with, with copper tone, like completely soaked with it. And, um, so it was pretty miserable and dusty. That's about 95, 97 for you. Oh, good guy. That was wonderful. Yeah. So it's fucking hot. It's like 95 degrees. Yeah. So we're having like, we've. Yeah. And it was like real fucking, you know, when the sun is like, Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Type the heat. So, um, so we wrote in that all fucking day, like, I, so the fact, Fuck that part, you know, as a bodybuilder, you pay an attention to all these things that other people don't pay attention to. So I took a leak when I left the gym. And it's an hour drive. I get there. And I wrote for three hours. I just, I drank over a gallon of water. Like over four liters, like almost five liters of water. Could I, well, I blew it because I had a couple of diet pops and I had a gay to raid. And, but I drank like fuck, like, five almost five liters of, of fluid. Didn't piss once. And it five o'clock. I got through a dry t-shirt on and put a towel down because I soaked. And I got in and I started driving away and they kind of pulled down this alley. And I thought fuck, I better take a piss because I got like an hour drive home. Right. So I didn't even really have to piss that bad. I made myself piss. And it was fucking orange. It's not even yellow. Orange. It's not even yellow. It's like one step closer to red. You know, I was like, how do regular people, like, because I saw guys, there were guys there that, like, I didn't really see them drink anything. Right. You know what I mean? Like sipping on a drink or whatever. You know what I mean? Like, I got a drink on my own. I was like, I was, I was, I was a guzzling water. Like go through the go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. You know, you tip the jug up and just hear it rip. Just boom. You know? So it was, it was, it was, it was a lot of fun. But it was really hard. And I had to flex my mental muscles of controlling my state because I got there. And as soon as I got there, I got a flat tire. I did one trick, my foot on the flat. Oh, man. And I was like, fuck. And I was already stressed out about the heat. I was at kind of concerned. Like, I was like, fuck, I have to go to this because it's going to be fun. But I'm really concerned the heat's going to just fucking kill me. So right away, I'm kind of anxious about how hot it's going to be. And then I get a flat tire. So I had to load my bike, drive to the bike store, get a new tube, fucking fix it. I had my tools with me because it's standard procedures. You always take your tools. Naturally. And, and through a new tube on through the wheel on boom boom, always have extra break cables and bullshit like that. So back at the spot, the guys were actually impressed. I was gone for less than 30 minutes. I was gone for a little bit of a time. I was going to get a little bit of a little bit of a time. I was gone for less than 30 minutes. I was gone for like 23 minutes or something. And they were like, oh, fuck you. I need to be back on your bike. Boom. But I was a little anxious because I was like irritated. Yeah. Right. And they kind of had two spots. They had like the jam circle where everyone's riding, taking turns. And then they had like some couple guys over on the side that are just like riding on their own. Just like not waiting for anybody to just rip, you know, have a little spot of their own. And so I was over there trying to warm up. Right. And I'd go over to the jam circle and I try to do something. I couldn't fucking pull anything. I was getting super frustrated because that's where they were filming. And I was like, fuck, I'm going to get the thing. Yeah. Right. You want to get in the video, right? And so I kept going back over there and I'd pull stuff over on the warm-up side. But then when I come over to the jam circle, I couldn't pull anything. And I was like, fuck. And the heat was just getting to me. And I was starting to worry like, oh, I'm going to start to lose too many electrolytes. And my performance will dip. Like, I was starting to like mathematically calculate how much sodium's left in my body. And I didn't bring enough salt. I should have brought some salt. What was I thinking? I just brought like a couple of gateries. I saw like, bro, I just brought tons of water. You know? So anyways, then finally, like two hours after I got there, I finally pulled some stuff on camera. And then the last hour was like super fine because then I was like, pull and stuff. And then I left and right because I was relaxed. Nice. But I had to like handle my, I keep thinking about outside of what I'm doing, aside from what it is. It's you have to manage your emotions in a different way than training. Like in training, you want to turn the, the anxiety can be a little higher. And then you can turn the rage up a little bit. You can, you know, you can pressure it. You know, like sometimes that's if you're going to put 500 pounds on your back, maybe a little bit shaky. It's a good thing to be, you know, spot that spot and go, you know. But you can't do that on that bike. You have to find, you have to find that hum, like you have to like find that spot. It's, it's tricky. And it's, I could see that it's like a skill. But I can also, I'm also starting to think like how else can it be valuable to me. And I can say that it's like a skill. But I can also, I'm also starting to think like how else can it be valuable to me. Like if I took all the things I learned from bodybuilding and I applied that and it helps you do things. What about these skills? How can that also help me in my life? You know, so we try to like, I don't know. I try to think like that when you notice that you're doing something. You know, so you kind of notice what your subconscious is doing. You're like, oh, I don't know. I don't know. Anyways, I thought that was interesting. I know people message me all the time about their hobbies and how, how they're doing. How, how their hobbies, you know, help them and calm them down and make them live in the moment like you were saying with this a guy's. How when you're at the cigar place, you're just at the cigar place and you're, you find that you're not engaging with the outside world. Right. You know, so, I don't know. So it's sort of sort of how it is. You just got to really regulate yourself. I'm be curious if you're approached to, um, music, allters over time as you get into those things because I think about like, you know, the power of music we talk about when when you're going into the gym, it's okay to be raging out. You know, that's almost being overly, let's go. You know what I mean? Right. Right. It almost seems like you might want to kick it back a little bit before you get to the flat land area into something that you just kind of, or, you know what I mean? So they're definitely the tunes mix up, but they're still like, I let still listen to a lot of heavy stuff when I ride. Right. The tunes do mix up more. There's more variety. I tend to listen to playlists more when I ride, whereas when I train, I'll put a certain album on. And listen to like, listen to music that way. But when I'm riding, I like, and also too, I don't have control of the music. At a certain thing like jam, like my buddy Francois had a speaker running, and music was changing. I mean, we were everywhere, we were there for hours, right? So the music was changing, like it was like 80s new wave for a while. And then it was like, you know, techno for a while, like light sort of transient moody, I guess, like, not super hyper techno, but like, you know, like on beyond some music for a little while, it was kind of chilled out. And then there was some punk rock playing for a while, you know, and then a 90s playlist with a bunch of Nirvana and Pearl Jam on it and stuff. So it was like, oh, it's a good new trick, so that's what I was thinking. Right. The music is, it's cool because it's part of like, you know, like, you guys have to remember, I don't leave my fucking house. So I go to something like that, and it's like a major social gathering for me. Yeah. Around strangers. Like, aren't body builders. Right. Don't give a fuck about my gym or like, you even know any, like, I'm just some weird looking dude, like, that guy's big for his bike. They might not even know what an I can be pro is. Yeah. Yeah. And then you know what a pro is. Fuck, right? So like, that's big for me to step out of my like bubble house. And I live. Yeah. Yeah. Because my disink at the condo at the gym and at this, the grocery store. Everyone knows me as the body builder gym guy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And that's like 90% of my life. So I go to like an event. It's like a really big deal. Like I was like, you know, Emily was laughing at me because she's like, you know, this is a big deal for you. You're like stepping out of your bubble. That was wondering why she texted me that she was so proud of you. And I was all said, I'm so proud of her. I'm so proud of her. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm hoping that it looks awesome because apparently it did. But I had a fucking great crash. Yeah. In the in the jam circle and front everybody. And I think they got it on video. So he's looking through the video. I already emailed him because he he's like, oh, Cindy, you're clips when I get your clips. And I said, oh, if it might, if that crash that I had is in there, can you also want that to me? So I'm hoping it looks awesome. It might, if it looks lame, I just won't show anybody. But if it looks cool, I'll post it. Yep. So yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? Everyone went, oh. I got right back up. So it was like, I guess I was okay. But look good. Yeah. Yeah. You're hot. You're the injury later. Yeah. Yeah. What did you just go? I went shooting yesterday and some rounds. Sense. Yeah. Sense. And my friend Alex, he he's a competitive shooter. He's been trying to get me to go out for a competition. Now keep in mind. I've never even run like a practice round. Where they compete. I've been there once, but just to watch and see how it was done and kind of understand the rules and all that. So next weekend, I don't have any podcasts to record on the weekend. And he wants me to come out. So I'm considering going out and jumping in this match and trying it out. And I picked up, I picked up this check this magazine out, Dusty. I already showed around 32 rounds of goodness. Just boom. It's nice. Look at this. Hang on the bottom. I love it. Is it taller than it is long? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's a little bit. Yeah. That's always such a badass look that reminds me of the old, you know, when there was that phase in the 80s where the bad guys all had oozys. Oh, yeah. It's like that. Isn't it? Yeah. You know, a single hand oozys with like the long, you know, and clip hanging down. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. So that's good. I think that's good. Okay. What do you think you can do? What do you mean? Like, because, well, yeah, like, like, I don't know if you're going to step into that circle. What's kind of, are you, you think you might, are you sensing you might get really competitive? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? If I'm going to, I don't think the first time. The first time just like bodybuilding, you're just happy to be there. You know what I mean? You're happy to, you're happy to be there. You're happy to get on stage. And, and I think that if I go, I'm going to have no expectations because I've literally never done this before, not even in a practice match. So if I go, which I'm highly debating, it's a drive. You've got to stop saying, if we need to commit it. Here's the thing. It's a drive. My weekends are usually my biggest part of the week for check-in. So I've got a lot of responsibilities to attend to too. If I can't win, no one can get your ears. Go do the thing. Take a client. I just don't need to take it. It's hours later. It's fine. You're going to be like, Scott, we need to know what happens. Yeah. So anyway, though, but yeah, if I, if I go to it, I'll just have fun. I'll go to have fun this time around. But I've got everything I need. I've got my belt and my outside of the waistband holster. And I'm, I'm pretty practiced at drawing. So I'm comfortable with all that, but I haven't actually sent rounds at a match. It's time. It's time. It's time. It's time. So listen, you got to be competitive if you go because your clients are putting it on the line for you. You have to go in this wind when you like this. I'm just rolling this shit right up. Yeah. I've got a question. I've got a gun, a gun range etiquette question. Yeah. Okay. So I mean, I've only been to the range. I mean, I went to the battlefield thing and Vegas. That's different though. They're like handing you guns and you're shooting them, right? Yeah. But I've only been to like a real indoor range. Like a couple of times in my life. So what, if you're the type of guy that competes and you do like the speed draw thing. Right? Like, you know, you know, boom, boom, you know. Yeah. Is that frowned upon to just go to a range of just practice that? Or is that, yeah. Can you stand there? So most ranges will have signs and rules that say you can't draw from the holster. Yeah. You can't do a lot of stuff. The place, I go to, I have a couple of different ranges. If you have a section for that or no, generally not. And I go to a few different ranges and one of them that I go to, They let me do that. And if there's other people shooting, a lot of times I'll go first thing in the morning. And there's no one there. But if there's other people shooting, they have two ranges. And one of them they use for classes and stuff. They let me shoot on that range. Because like, you know, I'm in there all the time. They know me. I'm friendly to them. And they know that I know what I'm doing. So they do let me draw from the holster. So I usually practice that once a week for one hour. And then I go to the other range. And that's where I just kind of like tear loose and shoot the rifle and shoot everything else. But yeah, then I use like an art, a timer. So it beeps. And then from the beep, then you draw. And it counts your shots and how quick it took. So then I can I can try to time myself and then you're up against the clock. So you can try to go faster. And they use that same timer at the matches. So you have to prepare the timer goes off. And then it, you know, you can measure like your splits and all that too. So once you have that timer, that's where you start getting competitive with yourself. But yeah, most people, they don't want you to draw from the holster. Because you're going to put a hole through the floor through your foot. Oh yeah. Through their equipment, you know. So yeah. And they don't want me to do that around other people because they don't want other people to be like, Oh, I'm going to try that too, you know. Right. So so do you just show up at one of these things and you just check a box like novice expert. Now you just pick give them money. I think and just do it, you know, you just. Yeah, these are like men versus women. No, no, no, but they do have a, they do have like what all the more. Yeah. What all be in is called carry optics. So this is like pretty much a standard clock 45, but I have the optic on it. Now if I were to use the decado, which is upstairs, that has a bull barrel. So it's like an open division gun. So the guys in the open division, they're like smoking fast. But I would shoot in carry optics to start. How many different classes are there? I don't even know. There's a bunch. There's like the rim fire class. There's somebody watching right now is into competitive shooting. They're like, they're rattling it off at the screen, but there's. There's probably like five. There's probably like about five. Have you think there's a lot of games? Yeah, Scott. Not shooting world. Not yet, but it's it's early. I wanted to do a shooting podcast, Dusty. You know, in my spare time. In my spare time. In my spare time. That's the problem. You got so much spare time. I saw you stop the 24 minutes yesterday. All right. I got to congratulate Dusty on the house. It's looking good. You sent me all those videos every day. It's fantastic. It's cranking. It's starting to come alive. You know, when you walk in and I'm like, It's starting to look like an actual house in here. Because, you know, the windows go in and Scott, but they don't like put the. And the sheen is around them. Okay. And I realize how much that change. They're like the crown molding and stuff like that. So it's getting. Yeah, it's going to be a great house. No. You're cabinets going in this week. Skitton. What's the estimated time? Like how much longer do you have to wait? Well, I mean, the estimation we bought was October. But they did put a buffer in there. So I'm hoping it's. At least early October. I know. It's all good. But I mean, obviously. I'm ready to get in there and get set up. You know, so it's it's one of those things where every. Every Sunday, it's go take a peek and see where it's at. And, you know, it's coming along. So the thing that's going to be the only thing I'm not ready for is you start adding up just the basics of the things I need to do like like, oh window coverings, right? 10,000. Oh yeah. You don't even. So there's going to be a quick like 30, 35 that goes out the door as soon as I get there. So that's that part sucks. What's the timeline on that? On eight weeksish eight weeksish. Okay. Yeah. So. Quick. The reason that matters is because then the the spare room is in and then I can start hammering Ron to get down here. Yes. He's on he's on the the other podcast just like that more off the races. See, it's a I've never been there. I'd be cool. I've never been there. You might first. It's not extremely sunny. It's not extremely hot. It's perfect for you. You're probably correct. Let's plan to head. Well, it's going to be, well, it's going to be like, what October is October to January. I mean, it's going to be perfect. You'll be right at home. My name's the rain. Okay. Okay. Yeah. I'm a rain. It rains like a day's view. It rains like an apocalyptic movie here for like five months. Yes. So, you know, when you said not wash his old his old Cherokee because the rain would wash it for him. Yeah. Yeah. He was like, he gets washed every day. He gets washed like every 36 hours he gets a rinse. Yeah. It's perfect. It's perfect. I'm pretty sure the new one gets a little superior touch. Then that's the hook is it's the first time. Ron bought a pretty much new vehicle in like 10 to 12 years. Yeah. I would definitely take care of a pleasant white. So I like the. Yeah. Yeah. You know, it's a little motivation. But I need the inside detailed. I need to get someone to like vacuum the shit out of it and tidy it up. Dusty would probably be very upset with me. It's not bad. There's no garbage laying around or anything. But he would be very like, oh. It's got to be. You know, but you're I like the ins. You know, though, I still like to get the detail done because there's certain things like you need the special vacuum to like get in an area that you just can't get. Yeah. Oh, they got those little tiny brushes around the gears and the dash. They do that stuff. Yeah. There's this company that we call and they just like come to the jam and do your car in the parking lot. Nice. Yeah. That was awesome. That's the way you go. So yeah. Okay. Who's got to start with questions? Let's see. Well, I've got some good ones. You know, I think that huge question box the other day that went nuts. Yeah. That one was good. But these are from today. I do some. So here's a good one. Let's start this up with some. The matters. Okay. I'm going to do it with a few or pre-mo. You have to fuck one Mary one and kill one. Go. Oh, God. Okay. I'm going to marry EQ. Of course. I'm going to fuck trend. The while lady that trends going to fuck you back. Yeah. That's a terrible, but I wish for her without one. Yeah. And I'm going to kill pre-mo. Okay. All right. All right. Scott. I'm on the exact same page. Although, I think we're going to develop some haters from this conversation. Because. So check, drop. Yeah. For you know, is like everybody's loving pre-mo right now. Like pre-mo is like the hottest thing everybody's like, oh, yeah. I like to take a lot of pre-mo blah blah blah. And you don't need to. Yeah. I isn't. It's the best drug ever. So. I don't take it. But anything. I'm with you though. And I'm not. I never really was a big pre-mo fan. In fact, I would say that it's one of the few things that I actually got a lot of hair loss from which kept me from really getting to involved with it. And I find two with clients that they don't really, especially experienced clients. They're going from like guys that have been running DACA and EQ and trend. And they're like, oh, I'm going to run a little pre-mo cycle. And it's like they don't. It's not as strong either for them. So. Yeah. You got to dump the dose of pre-mo's got to be like, you know, you do three. You know, you do three hundred trend. You're like, we're good. Yeah. Pretty much you're, you're, so to get that same feel, that's 700. You know, just is. So yeah, I like the vote. I'm going to stick with you guys on that one. Because you can't marry trend. You just can't. No. You know, trends are wild women. I've. I've. So do you totally agree with his dusty? I do. I definitely agree with that. But I had to add a little gem for you guys. So I'm talking about buddy Dan on the other day. And he's explaining that he's dating the scroll this back in the day. And it's the first time that she's going to, she's at his house when you take a shot. So he's like, don't worry. It's no big deal. Whatever. And he takes a shot. He's got trend. He says the worst trend. This is a viral. Don't worry. She's a great time. Go in down on the ground. Go off. She does. She's good. I fucking died. Who's that like, Dale? It's just trend. It's always happened. It was like, you know, because he totally goes, Yeah, it's been so smooth. So I was like, I hear it is. Of course he nails it. And you know, she married him. So there you go. She encouraged me to say, can this fucking risk, risk taken maniac? Do you imagine if you didn't know and you just watched this happen is the. Yeah. I know. It's great. And it's a same word. You would have to like, you would have to call me too. So you'd have to be going through this end Explain at the same time. You're basically happy. You're just bad luck, bitch. You know, I never did like, you know, take your shots around your girlfriend thing. Like, that was just like, I don't know. Just never did that. And then I'd meet the odd guy. I need to be like, those are your girlfriend give you your shots. Yeah. From like, no. And they're like, oh, I've never given myself a shot. I met a guy who's like, I've never given myself a shot. I've talked to people like that before. Yeah. I rarely do my own. Yeah. Oh, right. But you could put on a training process when they come in. I'm like, I'm like, been like, you're already a whole bunch of a shunner. I'm not okay. We just rotate through it and they become a nurse before I'm done. There you go. You know, goodness, dusty. That's some point. At some point, you're going to try to become a nurse. Right. It's just, you know, I mean, this is a way it works. I can't help myself. You need them. You need them to know first aid in case you rip your soft. Exactly. Exactly. To make sure I don't go to the gym to train back with Tommy. Go to the hospital after you. Yes. Exactly. There's an order. What a parent. Who knew? All right. You're up. Okay. Uh, t t t t t t t. Okay. So how do you know when it's time to change an exercise out when doing progressive lifting? I've had a couple workouts where my numbers went down, but then they came back up and continued to progress. How do I know when to change the exercises out? The caveat that he threw in there. See, I guess this is where it's tricky to me is if you're truly there mentally, and locked in and everything's in place. And your, your is obsessive is, as I was and when I was really into it was, you know everything was right. Fluids were right. So it was right. The moment I stopped progressing like if I had max three times a row that I didn't see progression that was done. Yeah. Yeah. It would be so I'm going to say. Probably too. Right. So if you're saying doing like incline barbell presses your main chest exercise and it's been progressing. And you have say two workouts where you hit it and it doesn't progress or goes down. You'd be like, okay, it's time to. Well, particularly for me because you got to remember the type of training I did. The movement was only hit every third workout. So if so at the same time, you got to understand the other workouts that are main, you know, chest movement was for so what's special when those were super grassing. It's a quick sign. Okay. This one twice wrote in progress. This one's done. Right. You know what? Yeah. So I guess if all of these starting exercises, let's say every starting exercise goes down. Like like cruise back. Yeah. That's that's not it's time to stop pressing for overload because your body's telling something. Right. Okay. You know, when we talked to Jamie and he was talking about, you know, doing higher volume for a while. It, it, one thing I thought of afterward is we've talked about it all before. Your body can handle anything for a while. Yep. Yeah. You know, so there's, there's, you know, a lot of people say, well, what's the ideal amount of this or that? Well, it all just, that's what it all just comes back to it all just depends. Like how long you're planning on doing this for. And you can train twice a day, six days a week for a while. You know, you can manage it. So, but it just depends on if you're able to recognize all the, the other stuff that you have to monitor to continue to make progress. You know, so, you know, that's what just a lot of it comes back to is monitoring, like being aware of like, like, like, does he said if just is in Kleinbarbel went down, but the other chest stuff went up. That's a whole different story. Yeah. You know, to my soul. Okay. Absolutely. All right. I actually got a good one for you guys. Um, it was written obviously for me with hockey, but I'd like to hear your guys as any memory that really stands out when you think about back in the day like for you run, you know, putting the pads on before football, stuff like that. Um, you know, like he wrote a big win, big hit, brawl. What glory days memories you have that stand out. Yeah, football was pretty fun. Football was pretty fun. I didn't take football seriously at all, which is kind of why it was fun. Like I knew I wasn't going to go on with football. I had the opportunity, like my coaches were trying to talk me into going to the, for the University of Alberta because the U of A was interested if I wanted to go to a university, but I didn't want to go to college out of high school. I was like, I am fucking, I'm not interested in that right now. And I was always so focused on being a bodybuilder. I was just going to do something else and start a business and I had all these weird ideas, this funny. But football was just fun. And I played with a great bunch of guys. And I have a bunch of like glory days memories from that. I was a linebacker. So we got to hit people, you know, whoever has ball, kill the guys ball, right? Yeah. You know, and it's fucking blitzing and on the quarterback and getting like awesome sacks, where he's fucking here all the air come out of his chest. You know, like, that a bunch of those good moments, you know, we want a championship. And we had a brutal loss in the championship game. And then we had to live with it the whole year. And we got to play that same team again the next year in the finals and we beat him. And so I got to experience that whole, like, you know, dynamic that of like losing and having to deal with it all year and feeling like fuck, you know, we could have won that game. And then the next year having a chance for redemption. And I always thought that that was like really awesome experience that I got to have because of football. Because a lot of people play a team sport, but maybe their team never wins a championship, right? Right. So, you know, it's just like, it's not like a super bowl or anything, but you know, it was like, we won our league, you know, it's pretty cool. You know, we have some fun. I want most outstanding linebacker of the league award. So, you know, so I was like, you know, number one linebacker in the league. Apparently that last year we played. So that was pretty cool. And, you know, it was a lot of fun, man. But I just remember like we were savage. We were rough kids, man. Like, and that football was a different game back then. Like the way we talked, like we would put Metallica Killamol to put the album on. It would just fucking crank it, right? And it's like seeking destroy and, you know, motorbath and forehorse men and just fucking blasting. And we would be screaming at each other in the locker rooms. My fucking kill is fucking guys. Like we were just like we were so hyped up. We'd all watched the program a million times. So we were so much a good movie. And we came from that generation. We'd put our helmets on before and we'd like grab like a bro hug and we'd smash our helmets together. Bang, bang, bang, bang, bang, bang. It's a spank you for that now. That's a pressure protocol. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. We would do that on the sidelines. All the team captains would get together. We'd like that fucking go and we'd smash our helmets together. And we'd just be super hyped up. I'd tape my jersey up behind. So my arms would be hanging out all vain and shit because I had like pretty good pipes in high school. So I would take my jersey up and all the linebackers and linemen all had black visors. So we all looked like and we were that really big like we had the biggest defense in our league. We had the biggest school. So we had all these farm kids. And we had like nobody on the defense. Even our safety was 205 like in high school. You know, like we had like six foot seven corners. Like we were just killer defense, you know. And so it was fun man. We got to crush people and I got a lot of sacks. We got a couple interceptions, you know. It goes fun. Yeah, I loved football. It was fun, but I didn't take it seriously at all and I had no desire to continue to play. Mm-hmm. Let's go. I was just got to do a plane or anything like that that, the time. Bring the memories. Man, you know what? I feel like I got I have two answers. And I would say one of my glory days would be like nothing to do with sports. But like after so I went to art school and then I got hired by a company called the Sanofay Photo Workshops. And there were there were these classes that were being taught by these photographers were like the best people in the world. And so I was a courses assistant. And so like there was this guy, a John Paul Kappenagra who was really well known photographer at the time. And I'm sure he still is. I don't follow the industry as much anymore. But I remember I did a book report or not a book report. I had to do like an oral report on him and you know, talk about his work and stuff. We had to pick a photographer in school and fast forward now to me working for the workshops. I remember like being in my van with tech support people with me. There's a girl that was with Apple and then somebody from the workshops and racing like 90 miles an hour to get to this place in northern New Mexico where we were meeting John Paul Kappenagra that morning to do this photo shoot. And it was like a really cool learning experience and this is like somebody that I really looked up to. Because like I said it was a guy I picked to do a report on like just a year previous, you know. Now now I work for him and with him and we're you know just like the most cutting edge equipment was being supplied to us by can and by Apple. So and we're talking like cameras that have these digital backs that were like 25,000 dollars a piece and you know it was it was a cool experience and to think like that I was like part of that to me. That was kind of like a glory day, but at the same time like that stuff doesn't mean a lot to me anymore. So I honestly feel like it's cheesy as it sounds. I feel like I'm kind of a late bloom when I feel like I'm living in my glory days now. Like this is to me the coolest thing that I get to do is hang out with you guys do this work with clients that are reaching their goals in bodybuilding. Like this. Yeah, basically like it to live the exact life that I want to live married. Like a perfect partner for me. And it's like this is this is my glory day. So those are my two answers I guess. Right. Well that's that's the best way to look at it. I mean ultimately that's that's why I you know the you know I've done a lot of dumb shit too, but I would change anything. Yeah, I just I don't want to change anything because I like where I am so much you know it's been great. So but yeah, that's that's sort of how I feel too you know like you got it. I mean both both you guys do you know you have to really feel like I quite often feel like I got really lucky in high school. Like you know as you get older and you just get to know people better you realize like a lot of people have fucking hated high school. And I was like pretty lucky man it was like it was crazy and pretty easy man and like you know I got along with everybody and played football and had some fun and didn't you know blah blah blah. You know and so I always feel like I got a little lucky there like you know. For sure. You know because that's that's one that like I wouldn't want to like have have sucked. I kind of shit you know. Yeah. I think it's like a 50 50 thing you know. For me I think you know when I think of the the throwback glory days it wasn't. I had a lot of success in the game. But the parts that I remember looking back on I moved out of my house when I was 16 to go play juniors and I had a basement apartment and. So did so we had on on that team. I want to say seven underage players. So that means in juniors it's like you know 18 is where you start playing in juniors and we were 16. And so the seven of us all lived at different houses but we all went to the same high school. And we were just around each other 24 seven. It was like all we did was like hang out. It was getting in trouble getting in fights on and off the ice just you know every possible thing you could do. Doing a lot more fun outside of schools we really attend to class a whole lot. But I mean though the those memories were huge and one piece that was awesome was the very first season we went there. There was a high school hockey team that that they had. And we all went to the same high school. So we were of age and could play and it was it was funny because it was completely unfair. Obviously. But to give you an idea we we want every game we never went to a single practice. We want every single game of the season and then during Christmas break we all went home. But one of our guys lived there. And that game we only won seven to three because he only scored seven goals. That's fun. It was one of those deals and we so we won the state championship by like nine goals. And you know they actually banned us from playing the next year. Which was also kind of cold. You know. That's what was fun because we I mean it was. It was fun because like you said Ron like we weren't we weren't taking seriously like we had a thing during the games. We were trying to get the goalie and assist. So we would always like we take possession of the puck in their end and then skate it back. And we give it to our goalie because he played for us also. He passed to one guy and you can only make one more pass before we get score. So the Nick get in assist the goalie. You know so that was kind of one of our little games. But it was just like great times looking back. And the amount of just. It's it you can't live the way I did back then. Like I think about like I tell Nick you all the time like so when I was 16. I loaded up my truck. And this is before like great cell phone reception stuff. And I just drove to Utah 12 hours by myself when I was like. So yeah. Yeah yeah. And I was like I got there that night. I'm like I'm here and I'm like okay whatever. It's not bothering us. It's like. No it's like. They're just kids couldn't do that now. Yeah. So I child abuse. I got a question here that ties right into that. It's when was the most relaxed and irresponsible period of your life. Today. And I guess. And I don't know if they mean irresponsible in a bad way. Because or if it because it the questions actually written like maybe it's not the first language. So there mean like most relaxed and least responsibility or maybe it means irresponsible like you're just being an idiot. But relax, carefree. I sort of thinking means they mean that was definitely for me. Without rush. I mean like I had a rule because I lived in Utah like I'd go to if I if I opted to go to school in the morning. If I slipped on ice like going and not fall just slipped as like it's time to get back and I'm going to go home. I just this not a good start. It's not a good start. You know between that and then actually got twice ended up in handcuffs when I lived there. For just you know when you make decisions when you're a kid where somebody just can't believe it possibly could be that dumb. You know. Yeah. I had a situation where it was after a game high school game I think it was high school game and there were some kids outside waiting and they were like talking shit. But the reason they were doing it was because there was a cop like 10 feet away so obviously I wouldn't do anything. I did. Yeah. And literally I remember when the cop had me down he was like you looked at me. And then he'd punch him in the face. I was like yeah sorry about that. Yeah. It's it's a period like it's funny though because you look back and I laugh because I'm like. Could you have been more stupid? Could you have made more dumb ass decisions? Yeah. I don't know if I could have if it was the goal like I set out to be an idiot. I don't know I could have beaten my numbers back then. Right. So these are not proud stories people but yes that is the most relaxed. And and what was the word he used because it fit me perfectly. Well I think there was a lot of response. No. Yes that was it. I'd say mine was living. Probably though there was like a stretch of time where I lived in Australia. It's probably like the last six months I was there. And I was living in a beach house on Broadway, which is on the Gold Coast by surface paradise. And I was working at the strip club as a bouncinger. It was like a real nice gentleman's club so it was pretty really easy job. And cushy and there was like tons of hot naked girls there all the time. So it was like the mess. The mess. You know people see me and they'd be like hey you work at Santa Fe Gold. You're that big Canadian kid that works at Santa Fe Gold. And I'd be like yeah they'd go oh man that must be the best place to work you know. It was funny. But I remember I only worked like three four nights a week. So I had like three four days a week where I like it was trained. And then we would just smoke weed and wander around surface paradise every night. Like who just gets super fucking high. Just pull like three giant bongs. And then just go out the front door and like a block away with surface paradise. And we're walking around all the tourist spots and all the you know all the clubs and and you know go go say hi to some of our friends at work And the bars and just cruise around and grab a meal at the restaurant because everything's open to form the morning there. And it just like it was so fun and we do that like you know I wasn't drinking any booze but we do that like three times a week. Just hang out till like two in the morning and like eat pancakes and eggs at the restaurant and you know. It was just a funny time you know it's just so you know no worries in the world. So yeah that would probably it does these on mute. That was broken. His dogs yeah going nuts. Okay. So yeah that was probably it you know I've told that story before I told this story once about my buddy had this weed and I was like purple. Yeah and he's like you gotta smoke somebody else. It's asteroid weed. And he's like it's often asteroid. The man you don't expect then yeah so like he put it in the bowl. We all smoked a bomb. He was one of my roommates Tony and we all smoked a bomb and then very like five minutes later. One of my roommates is like hey let's all go to let's go let's all go out. So we all just like walk down to the pub and went into the bar and I proceeded to get lost in the bar. So it's so high. I couldn't find my way out as lost in the bar. I can walk around. It's like I can't fucking find my friends and I can't find the exit. I like can't get out of here. Oh good. And then that's when that one dormant came over to me and he's like hey you're the Canadian guy from the gym. And like yeah and he's like you need a hand getting out of here. He looks like you need a hand. Yeah I've been looking for the exit for 20 minutes. Like I tried to get out of here and he was like no problem I hope you know you can tell I was having a hard time. So yeah I'd say that. Oh does he still muted. You would have to imagine what you look like if somebody knew to walk or maybe like yeah. Yeah I can get out of here. Yeah. Hey Ron I know I know you're from the gym. You need to take care of you. Yeah. That's funny. You'll dormant code you know you see another body builder in the bar when you're a dormant. You're like oh I helped that guy out. I'll help that guy. Obviously he had some asteroid weed today. Yeah I think you're like guys I'm right. Okay. Your turn is great. We're far away. Scott. That the the the the the the the most carefree. I guess yeah. Yeah I don't know. I feel like when I was the like the summerish the the year of like when I was 16. I would say was probably the most carefree. I would say is the most carefree period. And we just did the stupidest stuff as a kid. Like we we did stuff like we figured out that you could get on top of this elementary school. And then if you got the rope from the flag pole you could swing down like tires in. And so we would do stuff like that might happen or we might steal you know those blinking lights that you see a construction sites. Yeah we might like steal all of them. Just like all of them. And then go like put him in somebody's backyard and turn them all on. And we did. We actually very funny to me. Yeah. Yeah we did some great joy out of this for some reason. That's a very simple humor. Or like sledding behind a car with a tow rope just like and I don't just mean like let's take it easy. But like see how it feels. Yeah I'm seeing it was trying to kill the person on the sled basically. Yeah exactly. Yeah. Yeah we did a lot of that stuff. There was a lot of a lot of real dumb stuff back then. But it was fun you know it was fun but yeah a lot of stuff that a lot of a lot of people were like I never did anything like that when I was a kid. And these are the these are the stories I can tell on a podcast. I like that. I like that everyone has cleaned up their stories. Chasta. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I caught like the tail end. You know I was born in 75. So like my first memories are like the very tail end of the 70s. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I just remember like you know people ripping around know helmets on their motorbikes. People not wearing seat belts. Oh yeah. Just nothing like people riding in the back and pick up trucks all over town. That's what we used to do like that. You know like that started shit you know. Yeah. Just like. Yeah. It would it just all the stuff that people would just you know. It would just just like lose their minds. It's funny. They're looking back because I'm grateful for that time period because I think about like when I was like even as a kid like you know riding a bike like you get up in the morning and you'd like leave. For the dead. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And that was perfectly normal back then like moms wouldn't worry. They're like, oh, if he's dead, someone would call and he's injured, someone would call. You know, good to go. Oh. Yeah. You know. So I think about that now because I mean you know like we got like three six. I got these kids on lock. I know if they're I don't they hold the breath. I get on a message. Get held this breath. Who a problem. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It is wild though to think back. I'm definitely glad that we had that time period for us. Cause I needed it. Let's see here. I'm trying to get some like good shots here. So I have one. It's true. It's what music did you listen to the most this weekend. Oh. This weekend. Were you at like a music thing, dusty? Yeah. We went. I mean, yeah. It's a really cool actually. But so you'll you guys will get a kick out of this. So it's a it's a small venue. Maybe 220 people in there. No seats. You know, one of those type of places. And even a fast place song. It's very moderately past, you know, okay. And I don't know what it is about me. But I always end up next to the fucking weirdo. And I'm not like like I love people to be do the thing. I'm going to show what you look like when you do. But I'm talking about this older couple. And I mean, I'm fucking 40. So we're talking older here. And no matter what the pace of the music, the guy in his wife for dancing like this, the whole time and like leaning back into like leaning into people, moving all around. He would put his hands up in her hair from behind her and like put her hair over her face. And like it was the wildest thing. And I it was so much because I don't it's not really my music. Like the first guy had never even heard a song. I couldn't listen to him because I kept watching. And in the beginning, I was like, you know, I was in my good place. I was in like the dusty show mode. I was like, that's great. You know, people having a good time. And you know, it's the level of having fun. They're having a great time. And I'm cool. But after about three hours. Yeah, that's having enough of their good time. Yeah. And he kept leaning back into a girl that was just to left me to point that she would go like this and try not to make contact. So finally he leaned back and I just gave like a light stiff arm forward. Yeah. And he didn't react to it. It wasn't like he realized he was corrected. And so it kept happening. You know, so I was like, I'm starting to stay calm. And I'm like, I'm just going to stay here. This is this is nice music. I love John James. And finally he leaned back hard enough in a niki that I had to like grab him by the shoulder. And instead of pushing him forward, I pulled him back. That's what you had a little conversation before he could walk forward himself. And then it was fine. After the conversation. Was this like a drug thing? Do people do? No. Yeah. That's just this concept. So here's the thing. It was absolutely at eat out. They don't know how to behave. They're like, no, it wasn't to the point to give you the idea. Between. And again, this is probably when we first get there, he speaks to me. And he was weird as fuck. And I was like, I have your weird school. Then after the first man came up. He was looking big. So he came over to start rambling about how he's like, we have a glamping site. You're like, you're glamping. It's like, yeah. Glamers camping. Yeah. So he's showing me this. And I'm just trying to like give like some sort of interest. You know, like, oh, but also entering shortly. And he's hanging around too long. So I opened my emails on my phone while I was standing there. I thought that would drive home that I was done. So he gets it leaves the first man comes down. I'm standing there. We went and got a drink coming up. Santa. And he's the guy that decides to grab my arm. What are you going on here, Ron? What do you read for me so far? Because I'm getting some vibes from this guy. Well, I know a James. That's the accidently. He accidentally engaged one of these people that just becomes way too familiar. That was it was it was very odd. Because he grabbed my arm and I say you'll be fucking arms. There was a like, no he's not. He grabbed my arm and I wiped it like crazy. And then his wife, my wife was in. No, his wife was in there. So, shives in. Sorry. It's just too beautiful. And I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, it's not you don't. Just see our camp outside. You can come out here. We can't every weekend. We look. What do I have with us? Yeah, so you're just a beginning and she was like, they're like, does this happen sometimes like, oh yeah, people are fucking weird. It was my answer, you know, as kind of like trying to shoe it. So yeah, it was, I essentially had a date with these two all night. But that's true. They're credit. I think the good thing about this is, I know you guys have had these experiences. It annoyed me the whole time, but it also is the only reason I have a story from the concert. If not, it was a great show, but we're not talking about, you know, go in to see some games. I mean, they're just up on stage performing. It's nothing crazy. So I have a story now, and I will forever remember the great-haired, curly-mullet guy. Oh God. You see what I mean? When you guys go camping, when are you going to actually, I just came myself on numbers so we could just meet up on the regular. I wanted to get into a dance class. I heard that beat is optional. So, you know, I'm so glad, because I had that question. And I thought, I'm not going to ask a music question this show. You know, I wasn't really a music question, but I didn't even ask music question. And now we get this story. You just never know. You never know. I had a rough weekend of stories because, so yesterday, I take out, we go this restaurant that I've went to, the one thing about being odd looking is people remember you. Right? So I come to a restaurant the third time I went there, and the manager came out and introduced yourself. And that's a nice place, you know? So she's like, hey, you see, guys in here, I'm sorry. I'm going to do this myself yet. Great. She was awesome. The place is always awesome. So yesterday we go to dinner there, and it's us, the girls, and one of the girls boyfriend was first birthday. Took him there. Do the whole thing, you know, I ordered the menu. And as the late just comes back to my chat, she goes, okay, gratuity's on there already. I just wanted to know that. And I was like, okay, weird. All right, but whatever, it's 20% fine. It's what I would have probably given maybe a little more. Because she was pretty good. Whatever reason it started to bother me when we left. Because I was like, that's not industry standard. Did this check decide that she needed to decide what I was going to tip? Did she maybe assume I couldn't afford to tip properly? Or didn't know how? Did they have a thing rule? Like, six or more people? Well, usually it's the industry standard is eight. Okay, somewhere else, bronze, do six. We had five. Okay. So I was thrown. So it bothered me enough that when I got home, I called. Yeah. Because I was like, this is bugging me. So I called, and I was like, I called the front desk, and I just told myself, hey, this is dusty. You can, I, I talked to Samantha. What I know. You know, so she answers, and I'm like, Samantha, I've got to ask. What's the deal with your guys's gratuity there? She was, oh, five or more, and I'm like, Okay, and she goes, what happened? I said, well, we just got left there, and the lady through 20% on, and just told me, I go, it was so off the wall that it pissed me off. Because it's a weird number, and I go, and it's not on your menu. She goes, you're right. It's on the website. I go, I don't read people's websites before I get a restaurant. She's like, I should probably put that on the menu, I said, I'll be honest with you, I almost never came back if I didn't make this function. Because I was certain, because it's just a weird number, and I'm like, five people, yeah. Yeah, I'm like three people, how did your tip? You just, you just get it, because it's just about a work. So it was just one of those situations where, you know, you're like, that's weird, it doesn't bother you, and then it starts to get your head a little, like, yeah. The reason, another reason they do the big, the ad, the tip on the big checks is because quite often, like, Grandpa Joe is paying for the family dinner. Yeah. And he's going to add, he's going to add 3% and they're going to get fucked on tip and out the kitchen. Yeah. So that's the big party thing, it's four, but five people seem small. Yeah, it does. It threw me off big time plus it. What was also funny, which she knows, because I also been there enough that our waitress from last time came up to say, hello. Because we do, I tend, if you're good, I over tip because I have a big, big tip because I have friends that are in the service industry, and I understand that there are plenty of people, especially now that they've told me that are going out and tipping like 10%. Yeah. It shouldn't go out because they can't afford it. So they're just screwing the waiters with their 10. You know, so it's, it was definitely where the things are where I was like, I'm confused, but possibly offended. So we need to figure out which one it is, but yeah, it was pretty funny. I'm like, so that I could relax for the rest of the night, and I'm like, I'm like, it's good. It's just don't think I know how to do 20% Alice going out here. Wow. I know you're very sensitive about these issues, Dusty, we can see some of these very important. I feel better. Thanks for being there, guys. I know that a little bit of a risk. I know where it is. Hey, good friend doesn't try to face the problem. Is this there to listen? Exactly. That's gold. No matter how messed up I am. Yeah, okay, here's a good one actually that I'd be curious about for you. I have it twice, which is odd. This woman has a broken arm, but this person says, Axon broke lots of bones in my upper body. How many days a week can I train legs? Hmm. And I found this one tricky because usually I would say like, up to three times, but in my head I'm like, your body needs to recover broken bones. A lot of broken bones. I don't know where that because he literally said broke a lot of upper body bones. Like this is three. I'm willing to not like, I'm willing to leave a little bit to them to be responsible for. I'm willing to save three times a week. How much growth hormone? I'm assuming. Good question Scott. I'm assuming they won't be able to push that hard because they won't be able to tense their upper body really rigid. You know, they're not going to be able to grab the handles of the leg press and really fucking, you know what I mean? Like, they've got broken bones. I think I'm assuming that there might be low intensity pumping and volume stuff. Like extensions, curls. Maybe they got their arms fucked up. So they're sitting in a leg press doing a lot of sets. So I'd say they could train through times a week doing that for sure. Each muscle three times a week. So like quad's hands and calves. So they could, you know, they could make it. So they're going to the gym a lot if they wanted to just just to keep busy, you know. All right. I didn't even think about it. In my brain like three days a week, just three days. You're thinking of Dory and with his sling on, just fucking. Driving on the hammer is great press. Yeah. It's true as we know just doing to. My brain is everyone is that way. Remember we had the conversation about this 2 25 for 10. Make you strong and I'm like, fuck no. He's got, he's got Leroy holding him down and the leg. Extension. When he's three weeks out from the Olympia. So you could get all himself. Because his bicep hurts. Yeah. That's funny. It's shit. You know. It just goes, yeah. And it just goes back to the important stuff, you know. Training hard. To the very hard. So do you have a finisher question wrong? One shot. It goes up this episode of Dusty Crying on your bench. Damn. Well, I can't even, I know it sounds like like a question. I'm just pulling out of my ass. But I did get what is the secret to happiness in your opinion. Do you even show it to you? Wow. Wow. The secret of happiness. Well, it sounds to me like asteroid weed. Yeah. Astroid weed and no financial responsibilities. It's a combo. Yeah. It's a combo. It's a combo. It's a combo. It's a combo. Yeah. Because having a lot of financial responsibilities doesn't go well with smoking asteroid weed every day. You can get a blast in a bar that's square. It's true. Yeah. It's a younger man's ball. It's a younger man's happiness. Yes. Yes. Oh, man. Yes. That was a, that was 20, 20. It was 19, 20 year old me. Like just crazy. Oh, it's good shit. Crazy times. Crazy times. Yeah. So it's a, the, the, the true answer to that, which no one is going to like, but I really think is financial Freedom. Because everything else is easier if you haven't put yourself in a, now you can be rich and not be financially free because you fucked yourself by buying a bunch of dumbass shit. I really do find that when you're smarter like Jamie was saying when you're smarter with your money, then enjoying the things that actually matter is a lot easier without those stresses. Like, you know, I hate those things like, well, money doesn't buy it. I'm not saying it does, but I will say debt up to your eyeballs will definitely fuck you. Yeah. Yeah. Change your life for the worse. Yeah. You'd be extremely happy making 35,000 a year with the right debt to income ratio. That's all I'm saying. It's not about money. Yeah. Yeah. There's that interesting study that I think we mentioned on the show before. And I mean, obviously because of inflation, the numbers getting scared. Yeah. But the original study, which was all, was done within the last 10 years. And they found that they converted the, you know, the numbers and it was, it was, and all, all Western countries, all different languages, all different cultures. But it was around $68,000 a year income after that. People didn't necessarily get happier. So they're happiness increased up to 68k a year, which at that time was probably like the median or the, you know, the average income required to not, you know, for the average American to blah, you know, be stress free or something like that. And so once you hit that number, your happiness was technically like pretty good relative to your, it was kind of interesting. How it like was definitely tied to it until a certain amount. And then it seemed to become untethered. Right. So, you know, I do, I do think a lot of that goes coming from what I was saying though, because as you people have a bad habit of as they get more financially successful, they set themselves up with the golden handcuffs. And yeah, I used to call it that when I have employees, I'd give them a raise and then they go buy a car. And I'm like, hmm, you're right back where you were, you know, right, and you enjoy the car. Also they're not going to quit. You know, that's, I love it. That's why that's why it's called golden handcuffs for real is because you're stuck. Yeah, you know, and that's something that's, it's, it's tickle because I could see that. Like, because if you go from 68,000 to 98,000, most people spend a lot more money. Right. Like consistently. So they're, like you said, there, there comfort actually doesn't change or gets worse. You know, because you, you, I learned this the hard way. You, you were smart in the mean run, but like I budgeted really, really well when I was broke. And then once I made just decent money, I stopped budgeting and then after years of having nothing to show for making money, I realized because I just wasted more because I didn't have to budget me more. Yeah. You just did dumb ass shit. Like drink Starbucks twice a day, and the four bucks are a couple coffee. You know, like, I mean, I did that for years. And then one day, like, I have a fucking more, awesome. Right. I just drank a house. Exactly. You know, that's $240 a month, basically. That's a lot of Starbucks. Yeah. Yeah. Well, they were doing, they weren't doing too well at the time. I was there just trying to help out. You know, I'm here to help the world. If everybody did that, they were staying with you. You know, train. Oh, too soon. Ah. It's down with whatever my coffee shop needs me to do to support them. Yeah. When I worked for seven up, and I decided to coach full time, I started planning that. So it was like around around like, like five months out four months out. I was like, okay, I'm going to quit. And I'm going to quit before things get really crazy at Christmas. Because Christmas time was the worst. Yeah. For like the sort of industry. So, and it was a nice feeling because I ramped clients up. And I was making just as much money from coaching as I was at my day job. And I just did that for like six months straight. And I remember that feeling because I didn't have to like rely on that job anymore. So when they were telling me like, hey, you know, we really need you to do this. You know, and I know it's going to be after, you know, you normally would be leaving. I just like be like, well, actually, I have this other thing, you know, I'm either job I have to do. I need to be at the gym now. You know, so I really can't stay or or on a Saturday. I'd fuck with them and they'd be like, oh, you know, we're going to need you to pick up this store. And I'd be like, is this a good time to talk about a raise? Like, I literally say shit like that. When you don't give a fuck, it's a beautiful thing. And they knew it. And I still did my job. And I did a good job at it. But like, the, you know, Saturdays, like clients are competing. And none of the higher ups would be out at the stores. So I'd be like on my phone for the first four hours, you know, like, tell me. You know, uh, E2 rice cakes, you know, looking at pictures and stuff. But uh, yeah, I remember then at Christmas time, I put in my two weeks. And they, they like literally, they did, they like begged me to stay. And I was like, yeah, you guys never did anything really for me. So, you know, nah, I got stuff I got to do. Yeah, it was a good feeling though. But I will say this. I think money is a part of it. But I think having a purpose, like having a job. Like if you don't have a purpose in life, like a, something that you need to, you feel like it's your thing to do. To me, I think that's probably the key to happiness is having that purpose. Well, it's absolutely true. It's good for sure. Yeah. Um, purpose, uh, responsibility could be another word. Yeah. You can take on a certain amount of responsibility to give yourself purpose, I guess. Yeah. How maybe I'd, I'd, word it like your purpose kind of comes because like, maybe someone or something important is depending on you. Right. You know, you know, like something that you believe in or someone you, you know, want it, need to be there for whatever their, you know, relying on you. So you've got this responsibility. And I think that stuff drives happiness, you know. Um, uh, that challenging yourself too. I mean, all this stuff that we all do, uh, uh, we're sort of all like minded people, you know, Scott's, you know, thinking of competing and shooting and dust he's taken on and you, you know, I'm just gonna like do my own podcast on the side and, you know, I'm doing these goofy, you know, like guitars and my bikes and stuff, but we all want to like pursue something. And I think you're have to have like, I don't know, I need multiple avenues of that. I like to pursue like, like, I don't have anything I don't pursue. You know, like someone said the other day they're like, oh yeah, you know, I really like, you know, I go, they were just telling me how they enjoy their summer. They're like, I usually go kayaking three times and I usually do this one hike a couple times. And I usually do this, you know, when we go camping here and maybe we'll go to the lake, we'll do this. And I was like, oh, it's like really cool that you can be in the like 10 different things. I can't do that. Right. I need to like, because you're doing, he's doing certain things once a year. Yeah. You don't doubt. I can't do anything once a year. I would be like, you know, like it has to be like twice a week. Yeah. So yeah, this is sort of, but but if you realize that about yourself and you can, you know, spend your time in the right way, you can really like find a place for your just generally I don't know. I feel like my brain chemistry is in a good spot, you know, like, I'm sure it's how I see it. Like, okay, I've got a good amount of like, dope a mean right now in serotonin and I'm structured my day relatively efficiently. I've just got to stay in this like zone sometimes how I feel, you know. That's, that's a beautiful line there. Because I do find now that you don't have the obsession with bodybuilding. Because you do everything at a high level. You don't dabbleing, but bodybuilding was an obsession. Like, yeah, everything in your life. So what's the, what's the difference you notice between those two ways of living? See, it's funny. Like, we just trained legs yesterday. And, and like, I got super anxious before my set of hacks and just fucking killed it and had, like, an awesome set. You know what I mean? So I still have this high expectation of myself in the gym to keep up with, you know, arising when I'm supposed to be. But that's part of my responsibility. I feel like I've a responsibility to myself to, you know, maintain a large amount of strength and, you know, continue to be the type of guy that can, you know, perform these things at this level or whatever. They're still important to me. So that's part of the responsibility too, you know. That's part of why I don't, you know, like, I joke about how I can miss meals now if I want, but I generally don't ever miss meals. You know, like, it's not like I do all that all the time. So, you know, I'm still very consistent with everything. And that's part of like the strict, we've talked about structure, you know, but, yeah, I don't know. All these things contribute to happiness. But I see it all as like a brain chemistry suit. You know, like, Scott, when you're shooting your gun, like when you're sending rounds and you're hitting, like, good, like you're getting good clusters and stuff, which I do, like, is like, yeah, yeah, you get like, there's like all sorts of things dopamine and all that sort of stuff going off in your brain. And, you know, those are all these reward things being triggered and, you know what I mean? And we become more aware of that as we get older. Like, I think about that all the time now. Yeah. You know what I mean? It's, uh, because I think there's a, you know, the period when you're younger, where you're just, you know, you just recklessly pursuing things that make you feel good and you don't understand why or what. And if you don't have any aim, you can fucking fire off in a million-did-miss directions to try to find, you know, satisfaction and some people wind up chasing the wrong things and all that sort of stuff, right? Sure. But we're all trying to get dopamine hits, you know? I would watch this thing the other day about, that's like one of the things, like, you know? It's one of the reasons people turn to, you know, bad ways to get dopamine hits, you know? Right. But yeah, if you just fucking, you know, I guess responsibility and money. Never hurts. Okay. That's it guys. Like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. And comment your questions for the next episode. Yeah, let's get to the YouTube questions for the next episode. You guys sent me plenty in the IG, but we like the YouTube ones because we like to give them priority. So keep that in mind. Okay. On behalf of the guys, Scott McNally, Dusty Hancho on myself, it's just bodybuilding. Thanks.

What's up guys? Welcome back to Think Big Bodybuilding Media. I'm Scott McNeillie and today I am here with Ben Pollock. He is a phenomenal power lifter who has transitioned into bodybuilding. I'm sure a lot of you guys already know him. In fact, I had a few people ask to get him on the show. So we're happy to finally get a chance to talk to you man. How you doing? Oh, pretty good. Hopefully there's no pressure. No. Now, I'll just make it a laid-back conversation. I met Ben back in the summer. You had competed at the Michigan State Championships where you then won the overall. You know, you've been great as a power lifter. I know that that's where you really came up through and strength. But in the last few years, you've transitioned to bodybuilding and to hypertrophy. You weren't a really big dude as of a few years ago. Were you? No, I competed. So most went back all my bad. I was in career. I competed either 1-8-1 or 1-8-8. Okay. And then the first two bodybuilding shows over actually classic physiques shows where I wake up was 190 for my height and I came in around 184-185 for bookshows. Okay. Now, how heavy were you when I saw you at the Michigan? I believe I was, you know, I don't know what I waited. I can't remember, but I know the day before it's 262. Okay. So that's a lot of muscle to put on. Yeah. So the day guys, we were going to talk about the transition in training from, you know, focusing on strength, focusing on hypertrophy. When you first started focusing on bodybuilding, what was that like? Because I guess the thing I see is a lot of guys who come from powerlifting, you know, they go to do a squat and they're using every muscle in their body, you know, not just the quads versus, you know, we learned to squat in bodybuilding from the quads, you know, we learned to, to deadlift, you know, trying to isolate the back and it's really the opposite, man, instead of, instead of using everything you have to get the weight from point A to point B, it's using the one thing and getting the most out of it, how did that work out for you? Like, even in your mind? That's a great question. So I'm actually starting with the mental part because that was the hardest for me. Okay. When I started, again, this was a classic critique time. I was working on John Meadows and he really emphasized the same thing. And from a mental perspective, that was very difficult for me because no matter how hard I pushed, I was only using my quads to squat her, you know, primarily using my quads to squat. I was selling myself very short in my eye because I knew, okay, I engaged the post here of your chain, if I'm braids or if I do all those things and I can lift more weight, I can push myself harder, I can do more reps where the case might be. So it's very discouraging in that sense, even though, you know, I really enjoyed seeing the changes my physique. I always, I've always enjoyed the training aspect more than anything else. And so I really didn't enjoy that process as much as I might have. I didn't like doing things now. And the whole reason I got into it to begin with was because I was just getting beat up so much in parallel things. To read me, I had to drop out of it because of injury. Now in hindsight, I realized that those injuries were caused by, but stupidly holding myself back in terms of body weight, like starving myself essentially for years on end. And then having good movement, mechanics on top of it because I was too small. I was really feeling like leverages, but that was all hindsight. So I really, really struggled with that and then I'd talk with that and perform my expectations of the shows and really had a bad experience. So after that, again, that whole time I was trying to follow the follow-up exactly what you said, you know, really working on that mind muscle connection, really trying to make sure that even on my compound movements, I was primarily or only stimulating the muscles that I was trying to work. Well, after the North American since 2019, I reached back out to my old parallelistic guy who was just an harris and, you know, he, he had told me out front and he's like, look, man, I don't think you're well suited for classic. You don't really have to have that structure, you're more of a bodybuilding structure, plus he's like to have you training, etc. etc. So I was like, look, I still don't feel like ready to return to powerlifting physically. Or mentally, I just came up still in 84. It's just still too small. But, you know, I'd like to give something else a try. And so, you know, he encouraged me to really put on a size and thanks to him, I was able to go in that short period of time from 84 to I think my peak was 270 in the off season. Really? Yeah, about 250. And you know, stay pretty neat in the whole time. So that was, that was incredible. You know, I really adjust a lot for that. Dude, okay, so hold on just a second before you go further. You're 184 to 270. That was from 2019 until your peak of bulking before you cut for the Michigan basically. Correct. That is an incredible amount of weight to have gained. And you know, I, I've talked to people about this recently, even. One of the guys who wanted to have you on the show, you know, he's thinking about getting into powerlifting's bodybuilder. He's thinking about focusing on powerlifting for a while to get stronger. I, I really have to wonder like how much of that muscle did you gain? Well, probably A because you were able to eat more, but B because you had that strength to begin with, even though you may have not been trying to lift as a powerlifting, more, that foundation. You know, that, I mean, I imagine that had to be a huge role. I would tend to agree with you and Justin Dufus, well, you know, if you said like, as far as we know, it's as the most any better as I were added a year. Yeah, I tried to, by the way, eight. But again, I was starving myself for years and years on an end. It was probably three years in a row. I was eating literally 1800 calories a day. Well, lifting several, seven hundred, eight, her pounds. So the strength that I had in Justin's words, I had basically maxed out my bio-fibreal potential for my fibrohyperrophy. Okay. I'm sure that's, you know, just pumping work. That's very quick to build up. So the bottom of the floor is surplus. And then obviously, you know, special supplements on top of that, it was very easy to, it was extremely easy. Other than the discomfort of being that large, very easy to add that, and that side's quickly. Yeah, was it a struggle for you to hold that? Because I imagine, I know a lot of guys that had just been gaining 20 pounds and they're, you know, they're huffing and coughing to go from 184 to 27. That's nearly a hundred pounds. What was that like? So the common thing I hear from guys is that you don't know if that was never a problem. I don't fucking start, man. So that was never a problem. The problem was I felt so uncomfortable because I gained so much weight so quickly. I couldn't walk upstairs. I couldn't time my shoes. I couldn't breathe or my nose still can't breathe, but I was just miserable. You know, I didn't feel like an athlete at all. And that's kind of what I was trying to get to. You know, the stance, the other question, which I would like to go back to, but yeah, it was extremely uncomfortable in terms of walking around. Yeah, right on, man. So when you, when you go from here, it sounds like you've got a lot of thoughts. I, I just want to hear what you have to say about this because this is an incredible story. Yeah. So I got up to about 27 and like I said, I was very, very uncomfortable. And I was enjoying it. I was just eating, right? After starving yourself for three or four years, you're very close to half a foot. So it was about that time I moved to Michigan originally to work with Justin. But what I ended up finding was my new coach Taylor, Taylor Gone. Okay. And, you know, he's a strong, he's better strong, man. That's his background. And he's, you know, built like a strong man where he has a ton of muscle and he's like, he all own it. He has a ton of fat too. But you know, he needs fat for his sport. So, and I say a ton of fat, you know, he's probably 21% body fat and stuff. You know, he's probably no means to be, but by body body, I'm saying, yeah. And so I'm at Taylor and Taylor's background is in Colleague, wrestling. He's worked with, you know, Kabuki Schrinth, which is a top level movement, Schrinth Coach. Extraordinary, more probably smarter skydiving up. And so what he told me was with zero body bone experience, you know, you would feel like a piece like, dude, this is just another sport. You've got to treat it the same way you're treating other, all your other sports. And the reason you can't breathe, the reason you can't move the reason you're not enjoying it is what you could be. reason is you're trying to treat it like a like a patchener or something. And that's it's not the whole point. You have to learn to move at this new size. Yeah, I needed to perform just like you would as a power lifter, but we slightly different programming. And so what Taylor had me do is really, really take a step back, relearn all my movement patterns and Schrinth's set for my death move, which I'm just kind of naturally looked at. I had to read it my squat for Schrinth. Read it my bench press for fresh. Read it the way I walk, the way I breathe, all this stuff. And as a result, I was able to start gaining Schrinth again. And I was able to train, you know, very much like a parallel trip to the point where, you know, I'd say probably 70% of my training was kind of a parallel training that I'm still doing right now where I'm perfect for a parallel training. And then we'd add in the circuit lesson before my top of that, but again, that's that's very easy. You get a pump, you know, it's not going to be huge training or recovery especially when you're eating as much as I was. And it was kind of like a fond extra session. So we were literally doing nine sessions a week together. Six of those would be, you know, typical parallel sessions. And then three would be typical bodybuilding sessions. Okay. And, you know, because of that, I was really into drop with all that work, all that volume, where I was pushing myself much harder than Jim. I enjoyed it a lot more. My Schrinth was increasing even as even up until the last until two weeks out of national. So this is after after you meant me two weeks out of national, I was still gaining strength. Okay. And, you know, I was barely eating any less. I think we dropped. It was maybe a thousand calories a day that we dropped in terms of deficit, but remember, I was eating six thousand a day to begin with. So I was eating five thousand calories a day. I was trying to lay myself off. I was still getting stronger. I was getting a meter. And it was pretty much the perfect, you know, synthesis of a powerlifting bodybuilding. And going forward, that's the only way I plan to train. You know, I'll just add a amount of high-purtry work as necessary, according to my short term goals. But I really think that the method that tailored to both for me or that we do all together is ideal for both sports because if you consider anyone else for it. Because, you know, at the end of the day, we really are, you know, movement is integral to performance. So whether you're on a powerlifting platform or you're on a bodybuilding stage, if you can't move properly, if you can't perform this quad bench deadlift, and if you can't do a front double bar, a rear double bar front light, whatever it tastes like big, you're not going to see your potential in your places. And so that was, that was the big revelation for me that really led me to a brace bodybuilding all four. Wow. Yeah, you made it. It sounds like you made it your own. It's what you did. You were trying to do somebody else's version of it. What you thought you should be doing. And I mean, I mean, from talking to you before too, it sounds like to me, I mean, powerlifting is something you love doing. It makes sense. Absolutely. Yeah. And that was what Justin said too. It's like, you know, any training system can work at the end of the day. Yes, one might be more often on the other, but ultimately, the one that you enjoy the most is the one here at Push the Heart of Saddle. When you push the heart of Saddle, so this could be the best result. So absolutely. So this that brings us, so you trained basically like, like, we'll say, traditional bodybuilding training up through the Michigan and up through nationals of 2020. Yeah. Yeah. I've been told up until the Michigan was a traditional Push the Like Split. Okay. Push the Like Split. Okay. So give me an idea. Then like what is what is this training look like this hybrid? Well, it's a little bit complicated to explain. Okay. So we break things up by excuse me. He does still kind of look at it as Push the Like Split, but we really break things up by upper and lower body in terms of strength potential. Right. So there are a variety of sort of your mind pressed, your lower body is going to be your second end. So those are kind of like four distance of strength workouts around those. We kind of build in other areas of work in hypertrophy in ways that complement the strength training. So for example, for a bench workout, we're going to start out by performing a typical bodybuilding circuit routine. That's so like a bunch of super sets essentially or trying to set. That's going to, you know, really hit all the areas that's capital. So this can be front rear side del, you know, lats and then maybe even upper peck. And that will be to failure anything. There will be an us to get a good pump. And we found that doing that actually improves our bench training. So we're not weaker after we go to the bench after that because we're keeping it light, you're kidding. Relatively low, we're able to bench you more after that. So then you move up to the bench. Friends, you hit that heavy movement for the back. And then after the heavy movement for the day, you're choosing other power lifting variations that complement your physique. So an example here would be and it's nice because typically your strength weaknesses will overlap with your aesthetic weaknesses. So for example, one of my biggest weaknesses is my arms and particular triceps. And one of my biggest weaknesses is a pattern of things to vent stress and particularly my triceps right in the mid range lockup. So what we'd have me do is hit my bench press and then as my accessory movement, I would do let's say reverse, reverse band, reverse grip vent stresses to really hammer that wall head of the tricep. And we would do those with more typical body building pattern. So a lot of bio repsets, which are some of your response sets, a lot of super sets, occasionally some some anti-imbrac higher upsets. Now when we transition a parallel thing, we drop those other, we'll keep the same accessory movements for the most part. But like for example, maybe I'll do the reverse band off pins, so more single links and pause on the chest and we'll probably drop the reps down significantly. And then, let's try the upper and lower body days. Or I'm sorry for the lower body days with those out for body building purposes, put those up into, you know, posterior emphasis and anterior emphasis. So the anterior emphasis is over your squat neck. We're going to do a typical parallel thing squat, but then your accessories are going to be quad focus so it'll be things like leg extensions, leg press, exercise, etc. And then the back nail will be posterior chain focus, so you'll be hamstring, studs, calves, and maybe some back thickness work as well. Okay, okay, I can see you've you've put a lot of thought into all this, I'm really surprised man that you're finding that you can, so you're even stronger now, you're saying training this method. Are you finding that it's adding to your power lifting? So, well, I don't want to overstate, you can keep it. I'm, yes, I'm absolutely 100% the Schroer of Cyberraband, and also 50% heavier than I was in the beginning. So if you look at what I could look at what my, you know, looks coefficient, which is basically a power delivery, which is really exactly the sum of it. If you look at that now it's going to be lower. Okay, because I haven't had enough time to, you know, kind of adjust to this new size. I really think that in the next four to six months, I will be not only stronger than it was at one age of one, at one age of one to eight training this way, but I will be confident that it is well. So, yes, I really think this proved my my power lifting potential. And, you know, one of the goals that Taylor and I now have is encouraging more strength athletes to start getting into high-perper eat-off. Because we really see a like for both power lifting instruments, it's extraordinarily beneficial for things like injury prevention, things like loop direction, for things like body composition, which is a big factor if you're doing weight class sport. It's a really, really useful tool that I think many people neglect because it's an age or specialization, right? If you're on Instagram or a bodybuilder, you're posting your check-in photos and if you're a parallel for your posting your top sets and really care if I've got the other thing. If you want to be a better valid, it's a great one. Yeah, yeah, that makes sense to me. Hey, what's going on, guys? Thanks for watching another podcast here at Think Big Bodybuilding Media. And thank you to our great sponsor TrueNutrition.com for making this all possible. TrueNutrition.com is owned by Dante Trudeau, the creator of DC Training. You wanted to create a supplement company that offered high quality third-party test and supplements at a fair price. High quality protein powders, just about every type you could think of. Huge variety of flavors, plus health and performance supplements. Check them out TrueNutrition.com. And hey, if you use our code Advices, you directly support our podcast. Thanks, guys. Let's get back to the program. So take a movement that is going to be like one of your powerlifting movements. You mentioned bench press. Now, what are those rep ranges? Look, do you take those up at all? Are you still trying to work the way you would in triples and doubles and singles and stuff? Yeah, I would still work in triples and doubles and singles and the reason for that is if you're really keeping good movement patterns, it's extraordinarily difficult to do that for high rep sets. And that's really why you want to see powerlifting typically performing high rep sets. They do have good carryover. It's just after you pass, you know, kind of that 3-to-5 rep range work. Your techniques start to break down just because those are not super-priced or you're going to have to t-first. That is not to say I would use those movements in other areas of workout. Like so for example, let's take that air interior chain lower body workout. I'll do my top set of heavy reps of squat, right? Maybe I'll do a heavy single, maybe a back off triple. But then when I move on to my high-pursory work, you know, it's very possible that I'm doing sets of 10 or 20 of my extensions, super sets with high bar squats, really focusing on only using the squats for that. So I don't want to say that I'm only doing those rep ranges but primarily yes. Okay, okay. And all your joints, all that kind of stuff, like everything, it sounds like you're feeling good with this plan. Everything other than my racial group, which has been messed up for over 10 years now. So it's still not 100% it's getting better but you know, 10 years of chronic injuries. Okay. Yeah, what it says. So I guess you know, here's a thought. So I think of the guy I was talking to who said he was thinking about trying to get more involved with powerlifting to build the strength up. Um, if, if anybody's out there listening to what you're saying right now, how could they think about going about adding this in kind of getting a blend for themselves? Like what, what kind of advice would you give them from here? So that's a great question. So it depends on which side you're coming from. If you're coming from a powerlifting side, in my opinion, the movement aspects are harder. It's harder to learn how to engage your entire body in the lip than it is to learn how to isolate individual bus groups. That might be my bias. You know, that's just, you know, how I, how I perform, but that is my kind of, that's my philosophy. So if you are a parallel to what's that, I've heard free work to their training, all you really need to do is start with very, very high repsats. You're really getting that back to gas and build up and you can really feel whatever target muscle is working. That will help you establish the mind muscle connection. Once you've done that, then you can just add in high-purchary work as you would with a typical bodybuilding program. But I think that will work pretty well for an offseason as a starting point. If you're a bodybuilder, it's a little bit different. And I'm going to use Joe Mackeys, an example here. Joe Mackey wants to do a parallel to me, and at least that's what he told me. And you know, he has great potential. Because he can definitely have 800 pounds using a bodybuilding style technique. You know, he's, he's now trying to peek from me. And it looks to me like he's getting engaged me a little bit more of his post-year chain. But I would, if I were him, I would be, you know, kind of worried about either hurting myself or self-assaults short because I didn't take the time to really back off and learn how to use the all my muscle. Like, in conjunction or, you know, appropriately. So if you're a bodybuilder trying to go to the parallel to the side, what I would work with doing is starting with a typical linear regression program, or even a pure dyes program, if you're a more advanced bodybuilder, where if you're a be an or bodybuilder, you're just starting out every week, you're starting at five pounds to the bar. Until that stops working. And then once that stops working, and you start adjusting your repringence, you start to go from a set to ten, that sets eight to set to six. And all this time, all you're really focused on adding weight to the bar. Because I think in my experience, what you will naturally find is as you add weight to the bar and as you get down to those lower repringence, particularly under sets of eight, you will be forced to engage more of your loss of your stress to lift the weight. And that will be a way to ease yourself in. I do kind of teaching yourself. So regardless of which side you come from, I guess the one thing to have accomplished, start with very high reps and progress to lower reps. That makes total sense to me. I think, yeah, and the majority of people, at least listening to these shows, they're, we're mostly bodybuilding focused. But I guess I could see that because at the, it makes sense that would be an easy way to do it. Because otherwise, the guy I was talking to, his thought was just like, stop bodybuilding. Start going to a powerlifting gym. You know, start talking to power lifters, start going that route. Because it's almost like, to me, that almost seems like two extreme. I almost, I wouldn't want to abandon everything about bodybuilding to engage with powerlifting, especially like a guy who's already in his 30s or 40s. You know, it's like, it's, it's a lot, it's late to kind of start over completely. But with what you're saying, that seems like it could be more of a natural transition. I would tend to agree with you, I'm sure you come up with the exceptions, like the guy who has massive arms and legs, and really likes that back and chest, chest, thickness. And maybe they would benefit from a short, you know, pure powerlifting standpoint, a short powerlifting cycle. But for the vast, majority of people, I think powerlifting is going to be too torso oriented and too technical to be worthwhile as an off-season by itself. It's funny talking to you here. I can tell you are a very intelligent person. And for those, for those of you guys, he don't know, what's your Instagrams at PhD deadlift or is it okay? Yeah. So we're talking to a PhD here, and I can, I can see it now. I can see how fast your brain works. You're on that next level. So we're not just dealing with like some random, strong, dude here. You're a smart guy. I, you know, that, I wanted to ask you to. So now that you've seen both sides, you've had a ton of experience with powerlifting, you've gotten a great deal of experience, a bodybuilding, been on the national stage, you've gotten up to 270 pounds. I want to know like what's the toughest part of each sport? So I mean, I'm going to call out here because I would think that the toughest part of bodybuilding would be dieting. I'm unfortunate to have a good metabolism that's pure genetics and I don't have to diet hard. I really don't. So bodybuilding for me is is pretty easy. I have yet to find something that's hard in bodybuilding except for the mental standpoint. What I will say from that is man, it's a mind-fuck. Like trying to analyze your own physique is really, really discouraging. And I really don't enjoy that aspect of it. So for me, that's that's the hard part is being objective about my progress. From a physical standpoint, I honestly think bodybuilding is extremely easy. I mean, that's just going to be honest. I'm sure you like it. I asked off man, it would suck. And when I was trying to say 184, it sucked. Yeah, I imagine. Well, from 270, to 240, felt like a vacation. That's crazy. Yeah, so it was not that. I mean, yeah, but that's purely genetic. So I'm probably not a good person to ask from that standpoint. Yeah, the power, I think is much harder. Not again, not physically so much, but more, I'm sorry, term. It's almost like it's a balancing act. It's a much more difficult balancing act. And that you have to be able to push yourself to the limit. Just like you do a bodybuilding, but in powerlifting, you have to be pushing yourself to the limit wall-me-taining technical mastery. So it's almost like you're doing a max set of dumbbell in client presses while riding a bicycle. Right? It's a lot harder than just doing a max set of incline presses. Even though, you know, at the end of the day, you're going to build a lot more of also doing those in client presses if you're not in a bicycle. But it's harder when you're trying to keep perfect technique with maximal effort weights. Yeah, I could see that. So how long does it take to get ready for meat for you on average? These are just like some basic questions I've got here now, because like I said, I'm coming at this from a bodybuilding perspective. So I'm learning here a little. So it really depends on what my office is like. So if you're talking about right now, well, I'll give myself a full nine months because I have my power since 2018. So, you know, it's been a long break 90 times, so I kind of ride that bicycle again. Yeah. If you're talking about, hey, I came off of me. I took a lighter off season, you know, break, you know, maybe 12 to 16 weeks and now prep for me the end 60 weeks. Okay, okay, okay, I see. And you're going to tie that in with bodybuilding, right? Yeah, so my plan for this year I'm going to warm up powerlifting me hopefully in April. And the only purpose of that mean is to get back on the platform, get some of those nerves out because again, it's been three years now. Since I've done a powerlifting me. So that's the only goal for that April show. But big powerlifting show, meat will be in September, September 11th, it's the pioneer open and call the Texas. So that one I'm going to push pretty hard for, you know, my best case scenario a total about 23 10 because that would be a stand-offer named Best Evertoddle. Yeah, that would be crazy. Yeah, that's about, I want to say it's either 10 weeks before national. So from then, I will then immediately start dieting. You're ready for nationals, which I want to say is November 21st, but I can't swear to that they haven't announced it. But then national is to be the plan after that. So that'll be for this year. Depending on how those go, then all just have to, you know, let's say, let's just, I think the chances in the total pride that they get in the pro card. So let's say I hit the total, then I'll prize for an all 2022 focus on bodybuilding. If it goes the other way around, somehow I look into a pro card and it'll get the total all 2022 will be focused on powerlifting. And if neither one happens and I'll keep taking it, bit by bit. Oh yeah. Yeah, so it sounds like you're in a lucky place, metabolism-wise, that you can get into shape fast. But what will happen with your composition for the meat in September? What will you be higher body fat by the time you get there? What? Because I'm just thinking of myself from the bodybuilding perspective, you know, how hard is it going to be to go from that to nationals than in November? That's a great question. And I guess I kind of did when I said the only goal that April me was to give back on the platform. So part of the goal is to see how well am I adapting to this new size? Okay. So after my last show was the amateur Olympia late December and I'm waiting there. I want to say 240 something I can't remember, 240 or whatever. I've stayed that weight. So obviously my body composition is not as good and again, not at all as many super subtle. So that's pretty, pretty noticeable. But I've also intentionally not been eating as much as I would like because it was so different from all to move into 70. And I know it could blow up 270 like that if I eat properly, right? And I don't want to do that because I couldn't move it that size. So I want to adjust to this size first. And my plan is to do that April show at 242. See how it goes. If I, you know, if it goes 100% perfect, when I told something like a thousand kilos and I'm like, I got more of the tanks that's go, I'll just kind of stay this size and have the super subtle movements and modify my diet a little bit and we'll be a big deal at all. If it's not up that case and I feel like, okay, well, you know, this will, well, I'm very confident. I'll be adjusted to the size for that. But if I'm like, okay, there's no chance to hit 23 plus in the size, that I'm going to have to push to get a 270, right? 275, which is the weight class to try and be able to move enough weight to hit my goal. And in that case, it might be up. It might be a little bit more challenging. I died in for two weeks before the Michigan. And I had tried to glue to that show. Yeah, you did. You look like you died in for a lot longer than two weeks. I probably got some video still from that. If I do, I'll have to throw that in here because, yeah, you, you look like you had been dying for a lot longer than two weeks. You know, my, my quasi-reliber water, they kind of be the, the last area to come in for me. That will go back to the stage trace on that piece of news. But, you know, I'm very confident in the better. How fluffy I get for me. I can get shaved a technique. Sometimes, when I roll concerned about that, and I personally from a mental standpoint, we rather push hard to chore the walk and so on. Right, right, all right. Well, listen. So, you know, as a power lifter who has a lot of experience bodybuilding now, and as a thinker, I'd consider you like I said, man, you're definitely a thinking man. What can you help us with as bodybuilders from your perspective? What do you see in bodybuilding, we'll talk about like in the gym training wise, where are the things that you think that you just random people you watch day to day? Where can we improve? What mistakes do you see us making that could be benefited by making changes? You know, that's a great question. And I think you depends on kind of your experience level, right? Because I see a lot of these top guys who are cranking out very high repsets with heavy, firking weight. And for them, you know, the one thing that I would say is computer does is you're training a little bit more if you're doing the same rep range weekend and week out. But you told me before we hopped on that last week, you crushed those 125 Nobel Prizes. But then this week, you struggled with the 115's. Yes. You know, if I were to introduce, I'd be pureed by some of my training. So that this week, I would be shooting for the 130's. Even if we were significantly fewer reps, you know, like at least a mental kind of variation of my training. So from an advanced standpoint, I think the programming methodology for bodybuilding just do some plastic. This is advanced self-esteem training. That's just my own kind of bias. And then obviously you have guys like a sick-filled in, for example, who are very, very focused on cheap, right? And their top drivers are tiny ways to that extra. That's kind of a different story. But if you're one of the guys who's going for all-out-size, I really think that having that type of progression is important. So lower level bodybuilders, the guys I see who in the gym are just not progressing. They're not training-carrot enough to plan it. And I really think that's where, you know, when we go parallel thing, background from coming in, because you learn, if you got to add a way to bar your neck, push yourself harder eventually. And so I think that's a really valuable skill set that I learned from a couple of miles from just like, man, no matter how hard it hurts, you keep pushing until your body goes out. Like there's the most people of most lower to intermediate level bodybuilders, let's say, the gym, do not push harder. Yeah, I would agree with that. I feel like intensity is something that you learn over time. But yeah, it's hard to talk about intensity too. It's something it's always been a pet project of mine in the podcast to try to explain what intensity is. There's there's something to be said though about just seeing it firsthand, maybe training with somebody who has more intensity than you do. And then that light clicks on, you know what I mean? And there's also the problem that I think a lot of these people are watching a couple of guys when they start out. Yeah, and a lot of the couple of guys don't train on that hard and it's smart in their case because if you're in the top of a guy, you're not going to have that much more muscle. Big rain is not going to add 50 more pounds a month with this year, right? And so if he's training all out with heavy combat actions, the only thing he's doing is increasing his risk of injury. And if your Mr. O, increasing your risk of injury is really freaking stupid. It's good point. The adults are coming up. That's the risk they have to take if they want to add that type of muscle. And then you can take it and you can be very smart about it. I mean, I scored seven per a pound of today. And you know, I was not afraid at all of the degree because I've really gradually worked up to that if you just want the gentleman trying to do it, then yeah, you really get hurt. But at the same time, I do think there's another place where it's necessary. Yeah, I'll tell you, I've worked toward adding periodization in. I have a, I'm having a hard time with it. I'm having a hard time with things like reps and reserve. It's difficult for me. I want to be able to like, I want to be able to push to that 100% every time I train. Would you have any advice for me specifically, then, or anybody who's in my position? Because we get a lot of questions about learning how to do D loads and learning how to periodize. I think that bodybuilders are becoming more aware of it. But I think a lot of us are still figuring it out, including myself. So first, I think D loads are highly overrated. I think there is a time in place for D loads, but it's relatively rare. And if you're one of the guys just D loading every four weeks, I think that's really stupid. You should be D loading according to what your body tells you. And if that's every four weeks, that's great. But if it's every 14 weeks, every 40 weeks, that's great, too. You do not need to be D loading. You're listening to your body. No, you're mine. You use your mind. Always don't tell you to do some different things. But yeah, I really think that if you're D loading or regular schedule that's in the state, when you're D loading, you should feel like holy shit I need this. So it should not be a mental issue. You should not be worried about where you're going. Again, you just need a freakin break. Now, in terms of, okay, well, sheep, I have reps and reserve. So I'm not allowed to push all out so the strength could be really boring. I don't like the rep of a revert method. I don't like the RP method because of those reasons. You know, I want to push all out. And so the way that Taylor and I have kind of worked around that are you familiar with our, the video I posted about the plus E equals SP. I didn't say yet. No, no. Okay, cool. So we have that same issue. Right? We like to really push ourselves out of the gym. And we know if we do that, we're going to get her, we're going to fall out. We're not going to make progress, et cetera, et cetera. So we came up with kind of new scale that instead of saying, how much could you do today? The scale is based around, okay, how much could you do in six months? So you're really not focused on your current, actually, you're focused on your long-term strength potential. And so the scale looks at, okay, we call it velocity and effort. Those are not really great terms. We can take what I think better. Okay. We're looking at, okay, how heavy does this way feel? So that's just not, not thinking of how hard it is to set, how, you know, light is this way. Is this a PR? All your things that you pick up the demos, pick up the barbell, you get her machine. Right at that instant. Does this feel like, oh, shit. You know what this or does this feel like? I got this. That's, that's the first thing. That's the, that, the effort equation. And the second part of the equation is, okay, how fast am I moving this? For a parallel infrastructure is better, for a bodybuilder, slower is better. So if you're able to control that way, again, we'll use your double presses for example, if you're able to control that way all the way through the eccentric have a fast, strong, concentric, then your velocity is very high, right, which is good thing for parameters or for bodybuilders. Yeah, if you can't control it and you're, you know, you're barely able to, you know, the weight falls down and you just gotta grind it up and it's super slow, well, then it's very high. And so your strength potential is a combination of those things. Lighter the weight feels and the warrior able to control it, the higher your strength potential is. And as long as that strength potential is increasing, you know, you're getting stronger. So let's take your set of 125s again, just the example that comes to mind as easy. Yeah, but I can visualize it this way too. Okay. So you picked this up, you're like, oh, shit, this is heavy. And then you can crank out a set of 12 and they're slow, controlled, perfect. So in our scale, that's a 9. Okay. So it goes 7, it feels light and it moves controlled. 8 feels heavy when loose controls. I'm sorry, it's an 8. If it feels heavy and it moves without with less control, then it's a 9. And if it feels heavy and your strongest crap, that's a 10. Okay. So we never program 10s. But that way, you know, we have something to reserve in case of this role. Yeah. So we try to stay in that 8 range because that's really where we fell along, trying potential is going up. So you do your top set like that, right? And you're holding some of the tank, you know, if you did this crap, if you did just set slow and controlled, even if it was the failure, which can be on your arm, that you can hit failure. But if every reference slow and control, that's still an 8. And so you're still training within yourself. And you can probably progress next time. If you go past that, you go to the 9, you lose some control, but you still complete directly, and then you overreational a bit, you gotta cut back. But that's just our top set. And then we have a bunch of back downs. What we don't even worry about how they feel, we just do the best we can. We push ourselves all out. And so we get that kind of mental need to train hard out of the way as well. Okay. So this is work phenomenally well for us. You know, a lot of guys, I think in the parenting world, we've picked up on it, kind of dissected it from a theoretical perspective, and found some issues with it, which I know disagree with. Okay. And it was that meant to be like a theoretical type of statement to be more than practical things. For guys like you and me who want to push hard, even if it doesn't make sense. Yeah. Okay. Huh. And you said you guys have this posted on Instagram right now? Yeah. So it's all on our Instagram and it's on my YouTube channel as well. Okay. Well, I will link both of those things then down in the show notes. So anybody else who wants to check this out more in depth, do that. And I will definitely be doing that too. This is something I want to, I want to hear the in-depth explanation on this, because I need another answer. Like I said, Repton Reserve hasn't worked for me. Trying other methods going to a lighter weight for higher reps. It's just it hasn't, I haven't found something that's clicked for me yet. I'm feeling man, I feel that it's not keeping hurt. It's because I had to push to RB11 every time I could work out and I felt like I'm leaving stuff to take. Yeah. Because I was always focused on that. I do my best today. I think it, I added up 100% every day. I would get to my goal. Yeah. But in reality, it doesn't work like that. You got to add up just enough effort every day. Huh. Because that's where you, how you go. Management will mention this one. Carry to your goal. I can see that, man. I can see that because what ends up happening with me is I'll build up momentum. I got up to the one 25s and then after that, then the momentum falls apart. And then it's like, I'm in a rebuilding phase. That's the way it's, it's kind of become a cycle for me as the way I see it's not just you, it's everybody. Yeah. And so that's really one of the challenges that we're trying to help. Resolve. That's cool. That's cool. I can't wait to check out more of that. So, that was a little bit about your lifts. I have to try to focus mentally on what you're capable of now. Let's talk squat for instance. Let's start with deadlift because I know that's your best. What has been your best in the gym and what's been your best in a meet? My best in a meet was 2017. Rebalk Rucker records. I think I was 196 on full HD. And the time that was also my best in the gym. Recently, I just this past summer, right? I think it was a couple months before the mission. I pulled 85, pretty easily. That was in the gym with straps. So, grip is why we're going to deadlift. So, that's what I have to address. Okay. But in fixed end up, I'm pretty sure I have the potential to pull at least 400 kilos, maybe 900 by April. All right, not by April, but I said, I'm done with season. That's crazy, man. That's crazy. And how about about bench then? Bench. So, Bench is my weakest lift. Okay. I'm hoping to hit 500 at in September. But the best I've ever done in a competition in 424. Okay. That was, again, 2017. And for right now, on bench, we're staying very like very, very, very, very, very, very, really trying to completely rework that movement pattern. So, the heaviest I've gone in months has been 405. I'll do that. You know, pretty much not every workout, but pretty nearly every workout. I'll work up to 405. But it kind of keep that as a ceiling and just trying to make it perfect no matter how many reps it is or, you know, how many sets or whatever, just trying to own that way before moving into unturned territory. You made an interesting point too. You said you earlier, you mentioned that triceps are your weak link in the bench press. And you said that you feel that they're underdeveloped as well. Like it can pair to tell everything else. Yeah, I think that that's such a common thing, you know, it's like, how, how, how are they training your triceps? Like, do you get a really good connection to them? Or is it tend to be a muscle you don't connect with as well? You know, in charge of a workout tailor, I thought I connected really well with them. That's why I was really surprised. But then more of a short from a tailor. I learned I was really focusing more of the media ahead on head and long heads where you're going to get most of your strength and your hands eyes. Okay. And I really didn't have a good connection with that. So as I build it, I'm really hopeful that I will see both progress and strength that size. I feel like when you realize those things, like there was something mechanically that you weren't doing in my experience, because I had, I had an experience with glutes. That glutes just were not out. They weren't, they wasn't a good body part for me. And then I found that, you know, what they weren't firing either. So my squat was all quad. And then I fixed my hamstrings and then the glutes were still lagging. I found that when I learned how to train them, it was like getting new beginnings. Because I hadn't been activating them right before. So I wouldn't be surprised, man. I mean, with everything else, all your other development, it was just a matter of maybe not getting it to fire, right? I wouldn't be surprised if that catch is right up now. Yeah, we'll see. We'll see. But I hope so. I got my fingers crossed. And then how about how about squat? Where are you at? So my best meet squat in me, I got 2017 in a 799.4. And I was so upset that my coach didn't call I either because that would have made me the only person on our channel, or pants, or was it a quad and a pull and a hundred pounds of meat. You're probably not going to get chance to do that again. No, so 799, most I've ever swat in the gym is 805, but again, keep in the squat just like the bench, because we're reworking those from scratch. Okay. And taking those very slow, and right now my ceiling on squat is 700. Okay. Again, like I hit that today, I posted on Instagram at it was 697 or something, but called some hunter. So I just posted that on Instagram today and you can go see it's on our scale, it's our PE7, which is essentially warm up. Okay. And move. Move great, felt great. No issues. I'm pretty confident I can squat on but what's I really ran things up, so that'll be really exciting for me. You know, I think a world record squat right now is out of the question, but two or three years, I might be at your preposibility, which is kind of cool. But yeah, I would like to squat a thousand before enough. That'd be crazy, man. Yeah, we're talking to somebody who said 700 was a felt like a warm up, just just to point that out, guys. That's incredible, man. I love I love the squat. I feel like it's just it's such a full body intense movement, you know? Yeah, and man, it's just 9 day when I look at my old squats compared now. Yeah. Right, I had no, I had no frame to squat with, you know, so I just had to kind of collapse. Otherwise there's nothing there to support me. And now that I actually have hips and I actually have legs, it's like, oh wow, I can squat. It's fun. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. It's really cool. You know, we had talked before. I told you that I had, I had asked Chris stuff and when he was on, like what's it like being under the bar, you know, with that thousand and one pound squat. I mean, anything, though, I feel like anything over anything over like 300 is a ton of weight. So 400, 500, 600, 700, you're, you're quote, warm up weight. What's it like though to have an incredible amount of weight that scares you on your back? You know, you told me Chris stuff and said, it felt like death or something and I really don't agree with that. He said, it felt like it was going to tear right through him. Yeah. I really don't agree with that. I think of what a coincide or to the same question somebody asked him. What does it feel like to squat at the house and they're like, so what's your PR right now? What's Scott? What's your best squat? Oh, like, uh, maybe three play, I never go to like a PR, but I can work up to three plates. That's like, for me, that's, that's a decent working set. So let's say if you want to so firm for me, 700 for me, he feels exactly like three plates feels for you. Okay. So you progress to that point where you can support it. That makes sense to me. Yeah. Well, I've already get under a thousand now. Yeah. I would feel like it was crushing my brain. You sure. I'm going to work up to that slowly in 700. You also have me when I interacted. It was like, oh, okay. There's some weight there, but it never felt like this is going to kill me. Okay. So, so do you feel like that? Because I've never power lifted. So if you're trained, obviously, to get to the, the heaviest weight you can lift at the day of the meat, is it not incredibly terrifying then? The incredibly terrifying part with the sweat is because it's the first lift. I've got to get a pair of people to watch you in theory and like, oh, fuck if I'm this, I'm going to look stupid. I've never been to a meat with that spotters. I'll know I know that you said, that would be terrifying. But, uh, no, if you're unragging properly and you're bracing properly, it'll waste never feel like it's crushing you. Okay. Okay. Huh. Yeah. It's an interesting perspective then. And I guess it makes sense if you spend week after week lifting more and more and handling 705, set up to 800 by the time you get to your, your weight that you're working with, it's not going to be a scary. It's not as romantic, though. I like the idea of it being like this terrifying thing that you don't know if it's going to happen or not. The terrifying thing is the night before for you saying, well, fuck how I'm going to feel morning. Yeah. What was, what's more, um, what creates more anxiousness for you getting ready for a powerlifting meet the night before or a bodybuilding show the night before. It's a tough question because for bodybuilding the night before, what you're done, right? You don't have to perform at all. There's nothing, you know, you're there. True. Uh, you're, it's highly unlikely you're going to mess up your peak today of the show. Right. So from that aspect, bodybuilding is not that bad. On the other hand, on powerlifting, it's like, well, it's exciting. It's fun. It's something with four, two. So I don't know that I'm chipterially anxious before either of them. Okay. Um, but if I had to choose, it would be powerlifting. Okay. Yeah, I guess, yeah, because it makes sense. You have to still do something that's going to be pretty intense. Yeah. Right on. Oh. Yeah. So yeah. Well, this has been cool, man. I really appreciate your time. You know, we came on to talk about really the comparison and the transition from powerlifting to high-perchography, but I got to pick your brain in a bunch more. So I really appreciate that, man. I feel like I've, I've learned some good stuff here, too. And I'm going to go and check your guys' YouTube page out. And I'm going to read more about and listen more, you know, about everything you guys are doing. And if people do want to reach out to you, I'll hit, like I said, I have the YouTube, what's the name of your YouTube? Instagram.com. Yeah. YouTube.com slash the C slash PhD level. Okay. Cool. And then we've got your Instagram anywhere else people can reach out to you. I have a website, P.G.H.D. Not net. Okay. That's probably the best way. There's a contact me button there. Okay. Cool. And now do you do any type of coaching or your own or anything like that? I do do some coaching right now. I'm one of one stuff I'm really slammed with. So I really can't take anybody else. I can assure people the tailor if they'd like or I also have a training road team where I try to make that as close to one of one of one of coaching as possible. So I'm doing form checks, talking with each athlete and individually, you know, giving advice on their situations. But everybody follows have the same programming, which is basically exactly what I just described here. So, I'm very very interested that's definitely the best route to go. All right. Cool, man. Well, listen, um, anything else you want to share with us before you hit before we go? Man, I appreciate you letting me have me on, you know, talk my talk your ear off. Oh, dude, is my pleasure, man. This is uh, there's been a lot of fun. Like I said, too, I I got to learn a lot here. I think that, uh, I think that in bodybuilding we could all learn from people who have been focusing on strength. I've really come to learn in the last few years, man. How important strength is it's been a it's been a game changer for me to be able to continue bodybuilding and continue making progress. I only wish I'd learn that sooner, you know. All right, guys. Well, for another episode here at Think Big Body Building Media, I'm Scott McNeilie and I'm with Ben Pollock. See you guys soon. Thanks Ben.

Hey, what's up guys? Thanks for tuning back into Blood Sweat and Gear. We got a bunch of topics lined up for you today. Hope your body building is going well. Hope you're picking up a lot of good stuff from our programming. We've got a bunch of topics today. I have timestamps below if you want to skip around for starters. We do a physique critique of one of our Patreon subscribers. Then Andrew's got a great topic. How to shoot good progress pictures for your coach. If you're new to working with an online coach, this will give you some good fundamentals. And if you've been doing it for a long time, you still might pick up a few tips. And if you're a coach yourself, you could share this with your clients so that they could get some better ideas. Then we discuss the peaking technique known as Phil and Phil. And finally, we bring on Dr. Ken Kenak, because I want you guys to learn about Swiss, which takes place in October. It's a symposium of educated people that all get together and share great ideas. I'll be there. Skip will be there. Andrew might be there. Victoria will be presenting. And it'd be cool if you guys want to show up. There is a lot that you can learn there. Hope you guys enjoy the show. If you're new here, let me encourage you to subscribe and hit the bell. We have several bodybuilding podcasts coming out each week featuring IPB pros, experienced coaches and educators in our industry that are all here to help you do better and have fun and stay safe doing this thing that we love called bodybuilding. Alright guys, let's get to the program. What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear. I'm Scott McNeillie. Of course, I'm here with coaches Skip Hill in Andrew Barry. Skip's been coaching for 20 years now. Andrew's at 14 going on 15. I'm just behind him. I've been coaching for 13 years. So literally we've seen thousands of people each transform their physique. And we're here today to help freely share our education with you so that you guys can do better at this sport that we love. All of our programming is brought to you by trunetrition.com. You can use our code. Thank for some additional savings. High quality third party test and supplements. We've believed in them for years. I used trunetrition and suggested them to my clients long before they were part of our programming. Thank you for that. Like I said, use our code to think the help supporter shows. Supplement source for those of you in Canada. You guys can get great deals over there. Including I think I mentioned, I saw a pre workout for like 15 bucks. Patreon. We guys appreciate everybody who is taking part in Patreon. In fact, we have a physique critique tonight. And he said, hey man, I wanted to be able to say thank you. So I signed up for the Patreon because it's cool. So thank you for that. I'll have links to all the stuff below. And we do have a new sponsor too for our UK people. And that's strong sports. They have really good health and performance supplements, health supplements mainly. Anyway, guys, that was a long little intro rambo. We have so much to do tonight, including physique critique. We're going to give everybody a whole breakdown on how to shoot your progress pictures. A lot of people, they just, they don't, they don't do it well. And I thought that it would be kind of a cool topic for us because I think everybody who's who's going to be working with a coach, even if you are working with a coach, you could probably use some pointers on that. Plus we have all of your listener questions from YouTube and a bunch more gentlemen. What's going on? I just wanted to say I'm really not here to share my knowledge. I'm here for the attention. Anybody pays attention to me for like 10 minutes, 15 minutes. You feel good? You feel good? Yeah. I feel important. Just like a dog that just needs to be scratched in the chest every couple hours. That's my dog. That would be a cat, whatever. My dog does that, where she'll look at me and she'll be like, the arm goes like this. She just lays back like the arm like this. My guy goes like this, he goes, yeah. He goes this, that's fine. Well, that means I'm giving you a scratch. That's funny. So anyway, we've had a bunch of people ask it about Nate Spear. They're like, where's Nate bin? He tried to get Nate out tonight, but he was dealing with a little food poisoning. So he will be with us though in the future. We're trying to get him out. Now that he's a pro. This is harder to get a real food poisoning, guys. Not bodybuilding food poisoning, you know. He actually, he had some food actually spoils. So for him, he loves doing the podcast. So for him to not do it, he's definitely under the weather right now. So. Think about it. He's going to lose probably. He's going to have an eight pounds. He's going to just shit water for a while. And he's still going to be over 260 considerably bigger, not even if I stood next to him. I'd look like I don't train. So you know what? He shits off seven to eight pounds. Good for him. Good. Did you watch her? Did you watch her? His guest posing from Marvel Montro off my Instagram? I didn't see it, but I saw that. Yeah, sure. So crazy. Oh, you got to watch the video. Yeah. It's really cool to see because you can see like what's happening right now and what it's going to look like next year when we, you know, hit the indie pro in the New York pro and hopefully a few other ones. So yeah, pretty cool to see. There's a very respectable, yeah, it was very respectable, um, guest posing conditioning. You know, I think some of the guys are getting away with some stuff, you know, of course, you know, it's hard because you want to get the top names, but and they got to make their progress. But this was, I don't think we, I don't think he took any steps backwards in his progress. He just got super insulin sensitive again and now we're ready to push and, you know, I think we're going to get him in the two 90s, two 95 somewhere in that range. So nice. Jesus, damn. Well, yeah. What was he at competing last year? Like high to 40s. Okay, 247. I think it was, 246, 247. That'll be an huge, yes, posing. Yeah, we got him up to, uh, was it two 90, uh, for a couple days there. We started dropping him down. We got him down to 265 with kind of like a four or five week outlook. And it's funny because we both like looked at each other. You know, I think we were training on the day before his guest pose in and we're like, you know, that Legion pros only like eight weeks away. Yeah. Yeah, we were kind of like, I was like, now let's stick to the game plan. You know, both of us agreed. It was, it was probably the right move. Yeah. I like that. Those would be good shows too. I feel like Indie Pro, I just, I see him there. New York Pro. That'll be, that'll be a great place. Plus like the, those are shows that remind me of like guys just getting early. I don't know why. I mean, of course, New York Pro nasty freaks, right? But I get that vibe. So, Indie. Yeah, lighting's good. And the cool thing about New York is you're going to see some really good up and coming, you know, newbies, you know, you got Nate, you got Justin Shire, you know, the heavyweight class at Nationals. Got Carlos, who beat Nate in the super's at the Nationals last year. You've got, um, who am I forgetting? Oh, Stu, you're forgetting, uh, Stewart's, Zudonland, who always would be USA. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, and there's going to be other guys, too, that I, I probably forget in, but those are the guys that I know that are doing it. So it's going to be a very cool, um, you know, day view for some of those guys. I will be sweet. All right, listen, I've got, uh, got some pictures here from, uh, listener Billy Ryan. He's guy who's been listening to the shows for a long time. Made some great progress, too. In fact, I remember, I remember him not having this physique. Let me put it that way. And, uh, and like I said in the intro, too, he said, hey, because I, because I told him I was like, well, he was like, hey, you guys still doing physique. Kicks and I said, well, generally, it's through our, uh, through the people who, uh, support us through Patreon, I'll ask them. I said, but I'd be happy to manly on some of your picks. So, uh, he sent me his pictures over and after that. He was like, hey, man, I just signed up for Patreon, too. He was like, I want to be able to support. So, like I said, I appreciate that he doesn't have a lot of really traditional shots here. I'm going to warn you guys. I'm going to start out with this one because it is a strong shot. This is a picture. If I were Billy, I would put this up as my avatar picture, which, now that I look, I think he did, is a matter of fact. You got a physique. I remember him. Yeah. I see him on the, on the forums and stuff on the, on the, on the think big page. I dropped this in right here. He looks good. He looks freaking hard here, too. Yeah, he's got a good physique. Uh, good quad sweep. Yep. Um, yeah, you don't, the only thing I can knock on him, obviously it's an offseason shot is really just keep control of the, uh, waistline. Hmm. I think everything you can do with that is just going to enhance this shot even more. Obviously he's probably pretty good in the offseason despite being pretty lean. But, um, it's a good bodybuilder. Yeah. Let me ask you guys a question. If you notice the same thing I did, the, what's the first thing you notice when you say this is a, where do you go for first ban? I went straight to the other side. I think they're too thick. And from thick, I mean, obviously it's lean. Let me ask you this is this a, you said this is offseason, but I mean, it's he leaning down or is he just naturally lean. He looks very lean to me for offseason. That's pretty. No, he, he definitely does. I just don't know if he's fighting to staling or if he's just naturally lean. I just wouldn't want to go back to the go ahead. Well, I was going to say, because I looked at his page one time because he comments a lot. And I, and I watched, I look back pretty deep to look at his progression. And I feel like he's figured out a way. Yeah, he's offseason. Okay. Offseason figured out a way to maintain this level of this solid level of conditioning. Yeah. As he keeps pushing up. So I think that's really good control of his bodybuilding acumen here and knowing what he's doing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And that's where I'm going to skip the last time we slide. That's where I'm going. Like, you got. Yeah, because it's not a leanness issue. It just, I would have to. I'm just asking because I don't know if he is maybe hammering the shit out of, you know, because your abs, if you, if you pound them intensely like you would, chest or legs, the bitches will grow and they will get thick. And the fact that I noticed that first, just me, that's why I asked you guys. It, it may be a, it may detract a little bit for my cousin. He is. He's in great, I mean, I'm looking for a weakness as quads. Like, the great shoulders chest, I can't tell you, is there another shot either from the back or even something that would show his back from the front, front double bicep, front bass spread. Yeah, I've got a bunch more here. Right. Let's see. So he doesn't have a contrimine. I was going to say maybe to see if a background in strong man or something like that, because he has like those kind of abs that strong man power lifterers that diet down and up happen. All right. He sent me this one. Man, he grows in fucking solid. Yeah, yeah, man. I'm going to go to this one next. We do have a back shot that I have to edit so that we don't get kicked off of YouTube, because he's not wearing trunks in it. But we'll go to this one next. I would like to have seen a front, like, here's, I'm going to tell guys this too. Anybody who wants to do a physique critique for the future, let's see your standard shots, like a straight on front relaxed, rear relaxed, front double and rear double. I mean, those are going to also be the shots that expose you the most. And that's what we're looking for here, that way you don't get me kind of like funky twists that make your waist like smaller, whatever. Not saying that we're getting that here so much. I mean, his physique looks pretty awesome, but I would like to see that for the future. Yeah, the straight on front rear double, those are the shots that are going to win a bodybuilding show. I mean, as a judge, it wouldn't you agree. Like you know, within two weeks when the guys come out, she's a front and I can't say up on that. Yeah. Like so that gives you guys a really good idea of where you're at with your progress. If you do a front double rear double, throw a side chest and maybe one of your special shots that you think you look good. And I think that's the way to do it honestly. This is more of an observation than any type of critique. But do you see the buried domain, high lateral, vassus, lateral, they're just high in general. So yes, I would wonder. I'm thinking out loud. I'm like, ah, he might be thinking, hmm, how can I drop these down? You're not. You're really not going to. I mean, you can fill them out more, make them bigger. But it looks like a genetically high lateral, so I'm on the quad. No. I wonder if there's a little bit of stuff in there, too. I'm not the chief in a negative way. I'm just saying that the fact that they're so developed that way and where they're they're high attached, I feel like there might be a little something in there. And I'm not saying it doesn't look good because I would say this is probably the limit to how much stuff you should put in there if you are putting stuff in there before it starts to look the other way. But yeah, now you're right about the buried domain comment. All right. Let me see what else we got here. Off-seasoned. That off-seasoned condition knows. That's pretty fucking good. If I could have all my clients in that type of off-seasoned condition, especially if those macros. Shit. We said no SEO ever used. Okay. I stand corrected. There we go. But what about I wonder if just to play that conversation out, what about shots there, even high volume of oil, something like that, just to ask. Yeah, I don't even think I don't think Andrew was really saying SEO. I think you were just talking in general about just regular. I was talking SEO. I was talking SEO. Oh, my bad. I thought you meant just to be. I was saying probably SEO, but maybe just a high volume of also, you know, PEDs. But yeah, but he says no SEO reuse. So, well, that's a genetic body part then. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's really good. Nothing straight from the back though. I'm working on it. I've got one. I've got one. I'm just getting there, skip it at the end. I agree about the midsection though. That's what I was thinking on. I'll show you guys a thing that I think I mentioned in before Matt Chrisman of Next level we're nothing. He's based out of Tampa. Yes. He's the model. Also mechanic. Yep. He's a session on me two or three weeks ago, but anyway, he showed me this really good technique that's kind of an alternative to doing vacuums. So I've been alternating every other day and I'll show you guys really. Yeah, I had him do a whole write up for the Mountain Dog website and maybe after it runs its course on there because it is a pay site. I will. Yeah. I'll see if he wouldn't mind me sharing it here as well. But it's cool. I feel it like crazy. I'll put it down. Yeah. He's a good guy. Listener of the show. He helped. He's helped. He's worked on Andrea. So he's helped her a lot since they moved down to Tampa. So here's another I like this this just set more of a side relaxed shot here. I almost feel like his abs is midsection torso looks smaller here than it did in that previous shot. I wonder if he could get this appearance in that that side tricep shot he had. I can't take any consideration. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But with those macros too, you have to wonder too. I mean maybe he's just a little bit descended. Two in the, you know, you know, maybe a little bit more noticeable because I mean with 700 grams of cards of he's eating well to the plane. That's a lot of volume. That's a lot of volume. Me, I get it in French toast and it's nowhere in the years. You know, same by. Alright. He says he was on a gram of tests and a hundred migs of trend. No way. I'm going to edit this one here. So you can. Yeah. We don't get that the hamstrings. I will tell you guys though hamstrings even in the off season are you can see lines on the inner portion of the hamstrings. Adductors look thick from behind. No question as legs are freaking nasty in this pose. Yeah. No. He's darned her bodybuilder. What's his contest history? If, if Bill, if you don't mind that and like in the comments here. Well, let's, let's give him something though guys. If he had to fix something, you know, where if there's somebody who's going to be like a real genetic freak on stage, which comes to every show, where is that freak going to beat him? Without a rear double, it's hard to say, but I think probably from the back. Okay. That's what I was going to say to. I was going to go more even with upper back. I don't think it's lat development looks too. Yeah. Yeah. Upper back, you know, mid back, round boy middle trap all around the shoulder blades, rear delts. If I had to pick, if I had to just be like, he's got to improve on something that's where I would I think that's where I would go from the side. See, that's tough because it's rear delts looks something like that's like shit man. You know, that's a tough one. What it was, calves look like. Let's go all the way down to his, you know. Yeah. And to enter to be Alice and we'll see if we. Yeah. He looks out of here. Yeah. He does. Yeah. So what then more? Just more. Yeah. I think we were hitting the nail in the head skip with the upper back still. It's good. But I think if he wants to, because it didn't have the same kind of 3D look that he physique did from the front with terms of the range. That's a jump out of you. So I do think that and that's what he should be focused on. So if he could build that 3D muscles popping out of Chicano look from the back, he's going to be a very completely bodybuilder. Okay. That's a muscle group or that area of the body. It can't get too big. I think he's saying his calves are so tall. I thought my hips too big. Oh, well, then there you go. It's calves, bro. Without the calves. Here's the reality of it. I always laugh when people tell me like, good calves. What did you do? I'm like, I started training them in the late 80s when they mattered. And then I finally got good calves. In the mid to late 90s. It's not a matter. It's been 10 years building those bitches. So now I just hit them few sets here and there and that's about it. But they don't matter in competition like they used to. They cannot look right. You can look like your aesthetics are a little bit off. But I'm telling you, I've not seen you guys crack me if you have. I haven't seen anybody that has been marked down for having shittic and I've seen plenty of people with shitty calves when national level shows in turn. And I'm like, sure, shit. Because Tony Pearson back in the day, yeah, it was pretty damn good to see. But he won't go nowhere with them fucking calves. And I only use that as an example because it's the first thing off the top of my head. Because I, you know, I go back to when I had to ride a dinosaur to the fucking gym. It's been a while. So our nickvacola who had asked what his weight was. Billy says that he's 236. I wonder how tall he is. He said he hasn't competed in 11 years. And when he did, he was nanny back then. So are you one of those guys to think you don't look good, Billy? Is that why you haven't competed? Yeah, I wonder. We actually were having this conversation before we started recording. But yeah, about how like half the population of body builders think they look better than they do. And then the other half think they look way worse than they do. And it's a very small subset of people that actually have a really good view. But I would absolutely get on stage. You'd be a good heavyweight dude. Yeah, okay, five ten. And it's funny because he's five ten. I would not have thought that he was at tall, but he's so lean. And his shape is so good. You know, that's a, here's a nice little segue to this too. Cause this is important. Sometimes, I don't know if you guys remember the guy. I don't know what I'd say his name was like, apricotator something because a middleweight. And he was relatively tall. It's about 15 years ago. But what looked really pretty, really good shape had great skin, good color, good skin tone. But he was just too fucking tall to be in the middleweight. And he did very, very well at the national level. So my point is this, it's not always about the scale. A lot of times you can be lighter, but you can look pretty as fuck. And you're going to beat those sticker do's who don't look that good. Yeah. I wish I could remember that guy's name, apple gator. That was me. That was me. Shit. That's, that's, that's the good example. You said that too. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I, like, I remember going back, you know, 2017, 2018. I was maybe 238 to 242 somewhere in that range. And I was going against other supers that were, you know, 55 to 59 somewhere like that. So I was given up a good 10, 12 pounds. And honestly, when you're lean, when you're peeled, you don't look smaller than the other guys that outweigh you. Yeah. If they, if they're bringing a three week outlook and you're bringing a date, a game day look, like you, you're not giving up anything in size. I agree. I don't agree. Hey, we got a nice comment from Dan. I wanted to put it up here. He says it's, it's, I think he means ninety night time here in crossland land. But Scott, you're a legend to appreciate the content that you make, brother. I wanted to say thank you first of all, actually, to everybody who has had all sorts of positive feedback on all the shows. It's cool to have such a supportive group of people on YouTube because that's really rare to have a supportive group of people on YouTube. You guys are freaking awesome. And also all your comments, lakes, all that stuff. It helps to boost our programming up. Oh, I should also throw out two. If you're new here, this is what we do. We do bodybuilding content. We'd love to have you guys along for all of our shows. We have several shows each week. You could like all that stuff helps and in subscribe. It's bell. All that. Quick question for Andrew. Yeah. Andrew, do you think that if that comment said Andrew, I think you're a legend, would he have read it? No, I would actually delete it. I was actually going to make the same comment. I thought I was going to make it. I was going to make it. I thought it deleted. I thought it deleted. I thought it deleted. I thought it deleted it completely. I thought that guy. Just ran right by it. Hey guys, I'm going to take a brief pause to shut out our advertisers. I'm going to try to make this quick, but keep in mind they're responsible for helping us to put these shows out. If you guys want to support our programming, of course you can do so through Patreon and thank you to everybody who supports the show through Patreon. I will have links to that below as well as to all of our advertisers. If you shop with our advertisers, you'll get great products, products that I stand behind. And you'll also be supporting our programming. First of all, check out truenutrition.com. If you're in the US, I use their hydrolyzed beef college in every day. And I use their Citroly Mallet, Beta, Alinean, and EAA on days that I train. They have high quality protein powders and tons of flavors. Hit me up if you have any questions. Use our code think over there. You'll get some additional savings plus your support our programming. And you'll get some high quality third party tested supplements. If you're in Canada, check out supplementsource.ca. They have blog deals on top name brands supplements. They constantly have different things happening. So be sure to go to their site and check them out. I recently saw a car balloon for like 30 bucks off. And he really can't beat those prices. Bust they have free shipping over 99 dollars. If you're in the UK, then you probably already know about strong sports. They're one of the leader in health supplements in the United Kingdom. Strong sports nutrition has standalone supplements like NAC and Tudka. And they have finished blends like support max. A high quality, well priced, on-cycle support stat. I've least blow to everything. Thanks for watching. Thanks for your support. So, Andrew, you had to head, you had made a post a while back, which was a phenomenal post. And you talked about how to take good progress pictures. And I could tell you, you know, all three of us are coaches. I mean, you have to figure if this is what you do for living. Then you're seeing a lot of people's physics. And especially first-time people. Or even I'll tell you people that are experienced, but they get out of their comfort zone. They do great progress pictures at home. And then they get to the hotel before the show. And all the shit goes sideways. Let's take a minute. We don't have to make this long. But let's talk about how to make good progress pictures. What were some of the tips that you had suggested in your post? Well, I actually sent you the post if you want to put it up there. I mean, I mean, you kind of know the answer to that. But no, I mean, it comes from a place of, we all get, we need to analyze information, right? And we properly be able to analyze that information. We need to see accurately what you look like. And you know, you're going to get pictures with people. You know, my rules, I've always been no mere selfies, no selfie shots, using one phone and one hand and trying to hit a side-by-step or something. Like, send me pictures the same way you're going to be judged on stage. Because that's going to be the most effective way for me to evaluate you and where we are with conditioning. But, you know, so yeah, first thing, no selfies. Secondly, set yourself up facing a direct sunlight, whether it's natural sunlight. And this is something funny because sometimes people don't even realize like the sun's behind you and you're still setting the camera up facing you facing the sun. You know what I mean? Like, you got to know where the sun rises and when it sets. So you got to know where the sun is, set your camera up that way. Or if you have a lighting source, set your lighting source up eight feet ahead of you. Okay? Whether it's a ring light, whether it's, you know, some other lighting source. It really doesn't matter as long as we're seeing your body. Turn the lights off behind you. That's another big thing. Okay? Because a lot of times the light behind you will block out what we're seeing in front and we won't get to see the definition, we won't get to see the lines, the separation, all that kind of stuff. Set the camera up at waste level. A lot of people don't do this thing where they set the camera on the floor. And they don't go down to like, like, they're a giant or something like that. Like, guys, like, there's no way we can accurately, you know, get an idea of your proportions or anything like that. Right? What else? You know, I started this thing probably almost 10 years ago, where I just put the remote right in my mouth, because when you're trying to like, fidget with the remote with your hand, it's going to change your shots a little bit. And when you're really trying to work on good posing as you should be, you know, because you want, you want to practice what you're going to do on game day. So I just put the thing right in my mouth, so I just clicked down. I had so many people over the years, be like, why do you wear a mouth guard when you're doing your phone? You know, I didn't get it at first either. Like it took me a few shots of seeing your pictures or to recognize that. I see, and I don't know whether you've influenced others, but I have clients that do that now too. Yeah. I've seen you do that. Honestly, I think I was the first person I ever saw, I'll do it back in 2014, I believe it was. Even meadows was like, what's that in your mouth? Like, you know, you have a different or something like that. But no, I do think it just helps you, especially with the rear shots, because, you know, when you're doing your rear, you know, and you got one hand that's trying to click that right arm, if you're clicking, it's going to come forward. It's not going to be, yeah, it's going to create discrepancy from right to left. And when you're doing your side chest, it's almost impossible to do it properly. So I just think, you know, take that out or do this, set the thing up on video and then take screenshots afterwards. Also look like this, look like this guy in your progress pictures. You'll be doing really good if you look like this guy right here. That's a fucking hell of a shot. We got it. We got it all. We got all the more reference to that. Even mine, I would never have done this post if I was like, yeah. Yeah. It was just like, yeah. So right, none of this great information would be out there. Fuck, sorry. Yeah. That's good. Let me ask one question here, Andrew, and this is not to say, because everything you said, everything you posted, I think is great. But why couldn't if the distance is correct, the camera is the correct distance away, because essentially you're trying to take the pictures from essentially the judges perspective or the judge distance, right? Now, if they were closer to the feet, that is actually where the judges heads are. Now, again, I'm not trying to, but I just wonder if now if the distance isn't right in its close, then you do have that giant component where it looks like you know, they're looking down on it. But I wonder if, and I don't do this. But I wonder if the distance were correct that the camera was far enough in front of the competitor, but it was on the floor, if that wouldn't be a slightly more accurate. The camera, though, I don't let me speak from a photographers point of view, see that I was working in that industry for a long time. That wide angle lens is going to create distortion. If the closer you get out to the edge of that lens, the bigger and wider things are going to get stretched out. So it's, it's never going to look right, you know, if you get too close, if you get that distance and then you're in the middle of that frame, that will create the least amount of distortion. The closer you get the more distorted, it'll get. Okay, and I'm just letting hairs clearly, because it can't be that much, I would imagine it might not even be that much different, but I just pose that question because I was thinking of where the, the eyes are damn near at stage level or just above. No, no, that's a good point, but I think what I've done is I've created like a standard, like it's. Yeah, all right, if you're centered at a waist height every single time, we're getting a pretty good idea every time, whether you're in the hotel room, whether you're taking pictures at the gym, whether you're at your home. I just think it's a good standard because you see the full body head to toe, because another thing I find is when people cut off their head as weird as it is, it does change kind of how you see the physique. Because it is like an orienting structure for the size of the, you know, in comparison to the size of the rest of the body. So I tell people like, don't cut your head off, don't cut pictures off. If you don't want me to see your face, that's fine. Just put a little smiley thing, a mojie thing over it. Yeah. But, but, but, you know, cutting pictures off or the other thing that drives me nuts is when people take pictures from like the knees up. It's like, like we just said calves aren't judged anymore, but I want to see what the physique looks like. Like, all right, when you have someone come and pose for you in person, you have them set up seven eight feet away and you get a good look at them, right? You're usually sitting or you're standing and you're, I'm, I'm pretending like someone's right in front of me. Yes. You're sitting there, say, you know what I mean? I try to recreate that same experience for myself. And I'm really thankful. Like, you want to see, I mean, we're posing from the floor up, right? So what you're doing with your feet is going to be critical, at least for people that are getting on stage. It might not be as important for a somebody who's say like a non-competitor, you know, house mom trying to get into shape or whatever, but yeah, I think in general, you know what I will say too. I'm going to answer this is I'll say that for the classes in which you are asked to smile on stage. I think it's a good idea to practice smiling too, especially for people that are newer to the sport, because I've seen people who don't practice smiling and then they get up there and they don't look like they're smiling. And they get up there and they don't smile. And there's nothing that looks worse than a bikini, bikini competitor who just has this like, you know, the resting bitch face on stage. And they're like, just not plugged in at all. And sometimes it's in what I tell people is that what we practice is what we're going to do on stage. So when you do your progress, pictures do it the way you're going to do it on stage, including all the way down to those details, because those are the things like it's almost like martial arts. Where whatever you practice when you actually need to use it, you get in that street fighter whatever you're not thinking anymore. It's now just like a second nature, you just do what you've been trained to do. And if you're trained to just sit there and look like that, you're going to look like that, you know. I think the most important takeaway for people listening to this is that it's consistent. The lighting is the same, the distance is the same, the the you're taking the picture from the same spot, the same distance, the same height, things like that. If you change rooms or you do it out in the sun one day, oh, it was it was a cloudy, so I did it inside. That does make it difficult, but I will on the trainer to assess the condition, but I will tell you this, you do it long enough and I've told my clients this. I want everything to be consistent, I can see through shitty lighting. I've been doing this long enough and I've seen so many goddamn pictures that I can tell and I'm going to see your condition. And another point that I wanted to make was make no mistake, I don't mean that if you are taking your pictures from waste height. And then you get on stage, you're not going to be in shape and look great and be conditioned at waste, I then go, I was off. It was wrong, so I didn't want to apply that you know, it was so dramatically different, I was just thinking to myself what they am, the eyes are down there. But the point is that it's consistent. Yeah, your knees were fat. Use a funny one, here's a funny one because it might, my questionnaire or my, you know, my first instruction, you know, they got a first email from me with new clients. This is more for like the gentbot people, but it says, you know, pictures and clothing, this is more for the ladies that maybe don't want to put on the same type of posing suit that a bikini girl would. Yeah, but it's like, you know, front back pictures and a level clothing that you're comfortable with. Yeah. So most of us interpret that is like, okay, maybe like a woman doesn't feel ready to put on a complete sports bra or something like that because I don't really want to have ever feel uncomfortable, especially early on before they're really looking good, so maybe they're wearing, you know, what do you call like, like, Like short, like short. Yeah, and in more like a little bit of a covered up cool, okay. Well, one of my guys interpreted that as something he was comfortable in as in something that he looked good in. And then one of us going out outfits like so he was like, we're winning me for three weeks. I was working with that, like he's like dressed up in like cool little shorts and like a button up shirt. And he would send me other pictures too, like front back, you know, where's something that you feel comfortable in? Yeah, I get it. I can totally hear the Andrew's telling me to wear like my good shirt. I have that shirt and we're in our date days. Yeah, I'll wear that one for a progress. Before we start, I'm like, dude, I just realize how you were interpreting it. Maybe I need to change my language, but I don't need you to get dressed up for me. You're just the bottom shorts as good. Yeah. Yeah, that is, you know, you make a good point too with women. I think that there's, there's something I'm always trying to be really careful with because you also as a male don't want to come off as that guy who's like, hey, set me pictures in your underwear. You know, it's like, that's something that's like, you never, I don't know, I never want to come off as that. So I try to wear it in a very similar way where it's what you're comfortable in, you know? The problem is there's, there's a few coaches out there that have kind of, I don't know, I'm not going to say they put a stigma over all of us, but they've like, they've they've hurt the rep, they're repeating it. Absolutely. I don't know, sense. Absolutely. Yeah. The things that they've done like making, making female clients, post naked for them, or, you know, even worse in some cases, like getting up there and like grabbing that kind of thing when they're doing live check-ins. That's that's completely unacceptable in my opinion. Yeah. I mean, that like, I don't know about your relationships with your clients, but I wouldn't be in a position where that would, you know what I mean? No, that's not. You're you're you're you're setting something else up from the beginning if you're in a position where you're like grabbing your clients. So if that is happening to you guys, ladies, then find another coach. Call Andrew for me. Or skip. Looks like, you know, like, if you can't assess a female's condition in a sports bra and regular bottoms, like, I'm sorry, then either you're horrible coach, okay, or you're a perver. I will get a lot more hands on with my guys. I will get a lot more hands on with my guys in person. I'll be like, well, over here. Grab their ass. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? Well, if I am, I like a joke. If I'm with a female in person, if I'm going to adjust reposing, like, I'm going to touch you right here and just move you. Yeah. Like, I'm just going to touch your back right here. I'm going to. Absolutely. But yeah, in the area that's considered even like gray area, I'm like, I'm going to just move you just right here. Yeah. Like a guy's lower back and be like, hey, let me see what this feels like because you're going to, you know what I mean? You can like, especially like when it's kind of like, because I remember my first coach used to do that and be like, come here. You're just like grab my ass cheek and like, feel, feel, feel that's still great. Gritty, you know, that's fat in there. We got to eat fish only for the next week. That's normal. That's exactly what we normally normally. Exactly. That's what I'm saying. All right. So listen, we, I think we covered this. Skip to you have any thoughts. You want to end. You've probably seen more progress pictures than Andrew and I have. Yeah, I don't think you really have anything to add though. I thought it was covered. All right. It would quite well. In that case, then let's, let's find some other stuff to talk about. Hold on one quick second. Yeah. You started. This isn't, this is even a joke. When you first started, did you do, like have clients send you pictures in the mail or, where they up on the e, because you know back then, I don't early on. I understand the phones. Well, I remember because he's Chris, as you know, talk about, you know, like how Jay or whoever would send, they pull aeroids, put him in the mail, express them. And it might be like four days before he saw what the guy looked like on Monday and then give him his instructions for the rest of the week. Did you run into any of that early on or was it pretty easy? No. Now only, I'll say this and it should clear it up. Chris Asito is older than I am. He was, he was of course married to Laura Kraval who was right. You what, top two or top three of the Olympia for the last handful of years. I think of the 80s. Maybe 90 as well. I can't remember what I, for breakfast, so it's hard to remember back in the 80s. But he has been around for a long time. When I started it was about, like, as I started online, in 2001. And so at that time, you were still able to, you could take pictures on, you know, they had the, just the regular cameras with the, with the scandiss, and then he had to put the scandiss into your computer and then you would email the pictures. There wasn't the, we didn't have the opportunity at that time to post on a forum, but I didn't start my forum for my clients until 2004 when I started intense muscle. Actually, I was doing client work on another website that I will not mention because I don't want to give him any credit. That one didn't go very well. I actually locked the admin out when I left and he was pretty pissed about that. He had gone to jail. He was in jail because he was selling. He was one of those guys who owned a board that would sell ancillaries and, you know, your anti-assurgence and all that sort of shit. And he would, he would profit for like two or three months and then he would rip everybody off and then he would disappear. That company would disappear, but he would bring another company out. And he just had this, this endless line of people who didn't know that he was such a scammer. So he went to jail for it and he wanted me to cover for him like you fucking nuts. Are you kidding me? So I didn't know that's when we decided to start intense muscle and I got a bunch of people wrote what we started intense muscle like two days. But I locked his ass on there. So I was doing it. Prep work there. Iron Mag labs. You know what there's been so many that I honestly, I can't remember. There's just been so many scammer. It was just such a thing to do. If you had a price 70% of people who had boys were ripping people off. That's too bad. It was just terrible. Now with social media, I think it helps because we have so many options to figure out who people are. Yeah. It was great. The only person that could find out who someone was back then seriously was Dante. That mother fucker. If you ever, if anything ever happens to you, you don't want anybody to find out. Dante will find out what it was. Where you were, who you did it to? You know, and he'll know before anybody else. You might know before your local law enforcement. That guy is insanely resourceful. It's crazy. But Mike Davies, he used to do pictures in the mail. Like in the mail mail. I had asked him about that too. Yeah. Him and who was there was a guy. And I think it was an Asian guy on the west coast that was working with a lot of women. Oh, Kimodo. Yeah, it was him and Kimodo had like the two big teams back then for all the women in the sport. And he said that they used to both of them. That's what they would do was pictures in the mail. Some of these women lived like out of state. And they like write a letter about their progress. You know? And but you know what, too, though. He told me that some of their, and he's still to this day. His coaching process is different. Like he'll have you check in or he'll have you work with him. He'll give you a diet and it'll be like, okay, you're all set until you feel like you need to change the diet. Then come back to me. And there's a charge each time that you update the diet. Then, but you might not need to update the diet for six weeks. Something like that. So it was a whole different process than the way we do it. Because it's like, I do think that technology has changed things because we can literally like, Hey, send me pictures at six when you wake up and then eat this and then send me pictures at seven. You know what I mean? So anyway. Absolutely. See what we got here. Um, okay. I'm going to dive straight into our listener questions from YouTube. Um, alright. Okay. Yeah. What about this one from DeHarris and he says, Love these guys. Thanks. A lot of comments in there. I don't know if I read that right. Question for the next episode. Skip. I've heard you mention a peaking strategy called fill in spill. And I believe John Meadows was also a proponent of it at times. Could you please discuss what fill in spill actually is. Thanks so much, guys. Yeah. It's, um, it's essentially you just load really hard. I mean, I'm giving you the very, like the cliff notes version. You load very hard early in the week. Might be Monday to Z1Z to Z1Z. There's a, whatever depends on how quickly you can move water and dry out. But you fill with bunch of carbs and bunch of calories to the point where you spill and you're holding water, um, sometimes quite a bit. And then you basically just clean up the spill, uh, depending again on how, you know, how long it takes you to, to move that water to get dry again. So that's kind of it in a nutshell. I do know that, um, John, I know he had, I think I've heard him use the turn. Phil and spill and Andrew can correct me if I'm wrong because he knows John and has worked with John, um, you know, directly for so long. But I am pretty sure that he got that turn from me only because I covered that in, on the longevity DVD in like 2009 or 2010. But sometimes, I mean, it would be kind of odd that we both had the same turn. But there are sometimes things that come up with, you know, and I hate to say this. But the guys who think outside of the box and do this sort of shit that isn't normal and isn't your everyday run of the mill type of approach to things can sometimes come up with the same ideas. But did he, do you know if he, if he used that turn, if prior to that? He used that was, yeah, well, he used that turn only in a way of something saying, like, oh, don't ever do that. That skip guy has no idea what he's doing. Exactly. Do you want to do it? No, I don't, I mean, you, you guys know, like, you know, everything you do with every client is going to be fairly individual. You know, you have a game plan that you want to use, but I don't think he ever went into, like, I mean, I can't speak for all of his client, all the clients he worked with. But I do, as, as working on his website, he would always send me a lot of the stuff to do write-ups on people for their, we call it an in the trenches section where we cover people's perhaps, especially that final week. And then as we got, you know, closer and older in our relationship together, he would send me pictures and what he was doing people to say, hey, like, what do you think are we on the right track here? So, which I actually really liked, you know, he asked for my opinion, but some really high level people. But I don't think he really ever used a film spill so much. Unless a client probably said, hey, I've done this before, maybe I've worked with skip before or another coach that, you know, stole his methods or whatever. I don't think that was really what he did primarily. Yeah, I don't think it was his primary, but I just figured it was one of the methods that he had used, because I don't need to hurt it referenced, I think, two or three times over the years. But that's basically in a nutshell, it's you fill you water, you, you fill to the point where you're holding a bunch of water, and then you clean it up, you get on stage, looking, hopefully, if I can insane. Do you do that? Yeah. Skip. What's that? Is that something you do regularly now or? No, it's not, I mean, I still use it. But you know what, it wasn't something though that was, it wasn't my primary method of loading it. I think it was when I did the longevity DVD. Okay. Like I had done that for a couple years. But it was probably more me than it was a ton of my clients. Again, you know, as Andrew said, it's a very individualized, you know, a coach in a sense that, okay, yeah, a lot of my clients skip load, but not all of them. And some of them skip load insanely for a day and a half. While others, you know, they can get two meals and, you know, if I push to three, then they may not baseline and continue to get leaner. So sometimes the methods can be used frequently, but it's, but it's an individualized approach to everything. So the fill and spill, now it wasn't a, like it, that it was used the vast majority of the time, but at that time, I was using it. I want to say it was 2000, maybe 789, because I think I did that in 10, maybe 10, God, it's just, it's been so, so long since I talked about it on a DVD, like DVD came out a long time ago. Well, because I'm curious, so can you give us like an example of like one day to use day Wednesday or so, it looks like, or maybe actually, like once you've determined that they're full enough, and you're eyes, you want them to be a little spilled over, right? Like at a certain point. Okay. Yeah. So then I guess a lot of it accurately judged, well, how do you accurately judge the time it's going to take to get the water off? Was this from a prior experiment, like the week before or two weeks before? Well, usually, with, well, yeah, well, you experience with that client, because a lot of times the loading for the fill would be skip loading. Well, they had skip loaded, like who knows? I mean, 15, 16 weeks depending on, I mean, sometimes people get loaded the entire 20 weeks, it just depends. So you build up those patterns, and that's why, you know, we have talked about patterns before on the podcast, about how important they are, because once you get to that point and you've done it so many times and you're watching, especially the last five to six weeks when you're so much leaner and you can see more clearly how full, so there's like a balance of that fullness to dryness that everybody has. Yeah, you could might be a little drier, but you might go flat or considerably flat too. So there's that balance that every person has. And as goes last, you know, five, six, eight loads prior to the show. We evaluate those. That gives us a pretty good idea of how long it takes for them to move that water. So would you like, let's say, let's say you did a one or two days skip load depending on the client. Like, let's say you're, you know, starting six weeks out five weeks out, whatever it is, would you then ask for pictures like the, you know, the day after this skip load two days after this skip load three days after this skip load and then evaluate which day did they look their abstract and that balance. Okay, so actually, I still use it. I guess I never called it that, but I do the same idea with with a cart when I'm carmed cycling people like, yeah, let's say I have someone doing like two 700 grand days in a row and then I want to see them on that second high day to see okay now you're obviously really full. Yeah, now I want to see the day after I want to see two days after what day gives us that best look if if I'm using some kind of so okay, so it's just kind of. You are, but I think the main right, but the main difference, I think is I will load them to the point where I don't want to say there'll be waterlog, but I mean they are clearly overloaded. And by that time, the metabolism is just on fire anyway that it's just ripping through food, so a lot of times even if they may. Well, they're certainly not going to gain any body fat because I'm not going to load like as an example, they've been loading for like, you know, four meals a day, I'm not going to have a son load them for a day and a half. I mean, it's uncommon for for any of my clients, it's very uncommon for them to load over a day. And they're kind of the 5% you know, people those are the metabolism that are just out of control at that time, so you know, it may be maybe three meals, it may be five meals, it might be full day with one before they go to bed the night before it's just based on all those loads up to that point. Okay, here's one more question. What's the most you were you seen you've seen a client gain using a skip load in a day in terms of body weight. I have I've said here I'll put some context to it. I have seen clients at very few of them, but I have seen clients gain 15 to 18 pounds and then move that water and be in dry a shit in three days. It's in some point where I'm bringing Kenna. I'm only as I used your methods 10 years ago or whatever was I was doing the intense skip loads and I you know every week as I I was like a six day low and then one major load. But the load started at maybe four hours and then increased over time to eight hours and then I got to a point where I needed to load literally from like five in the morning until 11 at night. And I gained I went from 222 to 243 for one of those and. Oh, that's it. But I didn't reach the point where I look spilled though like I actually look like really good and but the next day. Well, one more point and then I don't want to take up too much time on this because we have our guests down, but I just loaded this last weekend because I was so. I'm just like I'm so depleted. I lost six pounds in a week nothing had changed. I loaded for a day and a half seven meals and when I say loaded. I mean to the point of being miserable. I gained three pounds and looked retarded the next that Monday and was dry a shit without the extension from my stomach. I could have got on stage and I would have been happy with you know that type of condition. So yeah, I want to say again on stage because I don't want to give anything away, but the point is as I was very I was very very tight. I think I just slipped up. But anyway, let's move on to the go. All right, we appreciate you hanging back. I can while we were what we're finishing that last question of ladies and gentlemen. I want to introduce to you Ken Kenak and Dr. Ken Kenak and thank you for joining us for a minute. We appreciate it. Absolutely. Well, we kind of do we kind of do it's just that when people get on the podcast and are more intelligent than we are. It makes me very very uncomfortable. It's going to a strawberry area. So you know, we've had you on the programming before, but the thing we wanted to have you on like I said real quick tonight was to talk a little bit about Swiss. This is an event that you have coming up. What is it exactly? So I've been doing a large symposium since 1999. What I found was that there was a disconnect between the health professionals and also the fitness professionals and strength and condition coaches bodybuilding piloting. I compete in powerlifting. I have competed in bodybuilding left that and then went into powerlifting and I competed a month ago. So I've been competing in powerlifting for over 40 years. So what I found is is over the years I sustained injuries and that inspired me to go to the care practice college because that was one of the few things that did work for me. But I also found the limitations of just street care practice. So I started going to different seminars learning how to apply different aspects of the different types of treatment that are out there. Whether it be acupuncture, whether it be soft tissue work, active release, rehabilitative aspects, laser regenerative medicine, PRP stem cells. And so I wanted to educate other people about that because most people don't understand a weight training injury and also how do you recover from that. And in my own competitive career and also I treat so many professional bodybuilders, powerliftingers, recreational athletes that have my practices people that weight training. They seek me out because number one, I'm not going to tell them don't lift weights. It's great, you know, my idea is that my idea is that let's fix it, you know, so so that's always been my real passion. And so what I did is I started putting together all the top health professionals and fitness professionals in the world together to get them to understand each other's world. So what was happening is doctors were giving really bad advice like squats are bad for the knees and then you know you had the fitness professionals, you know strength coaches bodybuilders saying, oh do these three magic exercises and your shoulder pain will go away, which you know we know it doesn't, but every single Instagram post now talks about that and oh by the way by my course. So when you get the best in the world all working together, other things happen and and and transpire through that. So I've been doing it since 1999. The latest one is going to be in Columbus, Ohio and it's going to be on October 28, 29. I'm doing it. This is the first time I'm doing it in the United States. I'm up in Toronto, Canada, just outside of Toronto and the thing is that Ontario has been really locked down the gyms here in Ontario. We're locked down for 339 days in Ohio. So and plus also I had so many of the presenters coming from Columbus, you know, Dr. Eric Serano, you know the late John Meadows Matt Wanyng, jail holds with Dr. Jeremy German, you know just to you know mention a few. And so I thought you know what I'm going to hold it in the United States and I'm co-hosting this Dave Kate from the lead FTS because he has you know a certain skill set, especially in the powerlifting world and also strengthening and also he's one of the top educators. And we've worked together for 20 years. He's one of the few people that are really, really trust, you know to do something like this with. So we've been pushing it hard and there's about 65 days left for registration, but we have five streams going at the same time. So we have a training stream, we have a nutrition stream, we have a rehab stream, we have a treatment stream and another stream that will be split in half. One day we're going to have business and in the second day on the Saturday it will be called just one thing and it'll be more of a TED Talk style 15 20 minutes like you know we're going to cut the fluff. No theory, here's one thing that I want you to walk out of here with. I can digest. I fight. That's for me and you skin. Yes, that's for us. You know what I find that the most powerful primarily because if you give you know anyone you know 60 minutes to talk. They will talk and talk and talk and it's like, wow that was really good. What can I use in money morning? I have no idea. So what have asked all the presenters is that to make this more experiential as opposed to educational. What I've noticed a trend is that over the past couple years due to COVID especially, you know, here in Canada is that everyone has gotten used to just getting all their information from YouTube from Instagram from TikTok. And they've lost the power of interacting and to be able to make connections with other people. You know, I've always stood by that the symposium happens in the hallway. The presentation happens in the ballroom, but the true symposium happens in the hallway. The reason being it's a two-way conversation. So you get the ability to talk to these top power lifters, body builders, nutritionists, your questions. And then you can go back and forth and then what happens is even cooler is that you get three or four of the top presenters talking creating new ideas and you as an attendee can just walk up and listen to them. And if you're smart, you'll just listen. You won't, you know, get your attention. Because what happens through those conversations is that, and I saw this with Dr. Michael Militick and Victoria Felcar. Yeah. That they would talk and Michael's brain with hormones and Victoria's brain with women's hormones. And so all of a sudden they're talking. It's like, wow, this is really, really interesting. Or if you have a, you know, Dr. Seranal talking to Dave Tape and then Dr. Stu McGill walks up, you know, and then you have Casmire walks in and they're all chatting about, you know, a certain aspect of the squat and you're like, holy shit. Where do you ever get that? That's not an any YouTube or Instagram post. So that's the interactions that I'm really, really trying to do. And I'm asking all the presenters, it has to be experiential either demonstration, either, you know, some kind of information that the person can use on Monday morning because there's nothing more frustrating than going to a conference. And it sounds good, but what are you going to do with it? So I've asked all the presenters, it has to be practical, something that they can utilize. So that's it in a nutshell. And we have just, we'll have probably over 50 presenters. Yeah. Did you want me to let you know who's coming? Yeah. Well, maybe not all 50. Well, we, we, we, that might take a while, but I would love to get some highlights of that. And I also wanted to mention to, you know, I wanted to bring Ken on guys because, you know, our audience is an audience that really is hungry to learn. And I know the stuff you've done has been so cool. I'm excited to go out and check this out myself. So I'll be there. Skip is going to which skip gets already, yeah, skip book this ticket and stuff is fine now from Florida. Awesome. And thank you. I'm really excited to be there. And I wanted to encourage any of our listeners to that if you wanted to do something a little bit different, if you wanted to get some education and look at things from maybe a slightly different perspective than what we're all used to. I think that this could be a really good place for that. So I'll turn that back over to you, though, Ken. Yeah, I think the biggest thing is that we, we really talk about things on all different levels like in 2016. We were basically the first conference to talk about Annabelle steroids. So I created a steroid panel and we had, you know, doctors therapist, biochemist, you know, everyone. John Meadows was there. I've tried to find a top flight athlete. So I got Ben Johnson, you know, who's going to the top runners in the world. And in half hour before the conference, because we had about 10 people on the panel. I go out into the hallway and Bill of Cas Myers talking to Dorian Yates, which is in itself is pretty pretty wild in the lobby. I walk up and I walk up in Cas goes Dorian's pissed off at you. And I'm going, oh great. Now what? Because usually when you put on a symposium every hour, there's some kind of thing going on. And yeah, some kind of drama. And the Cas is going, is upset. You didn't ask him to go on a steroid panel. And I went really? So I said, Dorian, you want to go on and he said, yeah, I have some stuff to say. I said perfect. And then I turned to Cas and I said, do you want to go on? And he says, I don't know what I would have to say. And I said, you know what? You could just sit there. Now I know Cas, he's not just going to sit there. So I had the fastest man in the world. I had the top body builder in the world and also the world's strongest man. Along with all these other doctors and therapists and biochemists and everything else. It was a fantastic conversation. Because we weren't promoting it. We weren't condoning it. But it's such a touchy subject, you know, especially back then. Now it's being opened up with the good work you guys are doing. And just talking about it. But the, you know, it's supposed to be 90 minutes. We went over three hours. You know, and actually that was the first time that Dorian actually on film ever admitted taking steroids. He'd done it in print. But he never did it in film. And that was the first time that Casmire said, yeah, you know what? I took drugs. And that's how, you know, fine, you know, things really were back then. So in 2018, we did it again. And we're going to be doing it again in 2022. So we're going to have different types of panels. But we're going to have Bill Casmire working with Ed Cohen. We're going to be able to go up on stage. And they will coach you through the three powerless. We did that in 2018. And it was such a huge success. I just talked to Dr. Michael Militech last night. And he's going to do a fantastic presentation on overtraining and burnout. All the different components as far as biochemical, mentally emotional, psychological. And how do you actually work with that? He's a brilliant guy. Oh, he's any so good. Yeah. You know, I know that him and Victoria doing great work together. They are now. Yeah. Yeah. And we're going to have Matt Wanying. We're going to have Christian Tipedo. Brian Man and Travis Matt talking about velocity based training. Just Brian, who's one of the top bench pressers in the world, Joe de Franco, Mike Isra tell. We're going to have a jujube move food coming out. Oh, cool. Yeah, Owen Lacy, rock doctor Robert Kowski, Dr. Jordan shallow doctor, Stephanie Cohen. She's going to come out and present. I'm Dani Thompson, Chris stuff and Mailing Dauvan. Dr. David Leef, Dr. Eric Suranoz. I mentioned before Justin Harris. Yeah, I've never, yeah, I've never mentioned that. Yeah, but apparently super brilliant. And he's willing to talk about stuff. And Dr. Jordan Moon is going to be there. And he's going to have a really unique presentation on body composition. So he's working with Dr. Serano and Alev. So they actually have a deck submission talking about body composition. And Dr. Jordan Moon's one of the world authorities on body composition. And so he's using three different systems to literally find out what your body composition is. And as you, it is Dexa along with BIA, which is biompins analysis and another one that I have never heard of before ISAK. Apparently some anthropometric measurements that they do. It is enormous in Europe. All the top strength coaches and athletes they all get it done. And we haven't even heard of it here. So he's going to be showing all those different components. And when you put all three together, you can get a really good diagnostic picture. It's almost like when you get an x-ray and ultrasound and an MRI, they're all imaging studies. But they all give you different pieces of information. That's why we do that in the clinical study. My own profession is carapractics. So you know, we would utilize those things based on what we need to see whether be muscle tissue. You don't do x-ray. You do an ultrasound. Well, this would be awesome. And I'm glad you could take a minute to come on and join us. Can if people are interested, do you have a place that they can go to sign up to buy tickets, things like that? Yes. So you can go to eliteFTSswis2020.com. And you'll probably have that in the show notes also. Yep. It definitely will be guys. So definitely go down there. Click on that. And also right now, we just raised the price. It was $3.99. We raised the price of $4.99. But for your listeners, if they use this code, ES 100. So eliteFTS Swiss 100. So ES 100. They'll get $100 off. Cool. So it'll be $3.99 for anyone that wants the register. But it's going to be in Columbus, Ohio, October 28, 29, which is a Friday Saturday. And the whole thing is that you need to connect with people. And I'm actually even going to set up a system where you're going to be able to connect with people in your own area. So in Toronto area, what we're going to have, what have the database of where everyone is from. So if someone is from say Detroit, you're in Detroit, correct Scott. Yep. Yeah. So all of a sudden, all the trainers, the doctors, therapists, nutritionists at three o'clock in front of the training room at flag flag one, meet for five minutes. I mean, I've been to a lot of socials and I've done socials that's Swiss before. And I meet people from New York. Well, that's nice, but it does nothing for me for work. You know, as far as for me, be able to refer or get a referral. So I actually changed the schedule last week because I think in the next six to 12 months, the economy is going to go a little bit sideways. So the multiple streams of income and multiple streams of referrals, you're going to have a real, real hard time. I'm starting to see that in the business world here already. So if you can meet people one on one and literally within minutes, you can find out number one who they are, where are they like I mean if they may be two streets over, but you've never met him before. And the biggest thing is that are they nice or are they kind of creepy? You know, so I've heard people to, to certain people and they say, you know, whatever never refer to that person and can't. And I go, why is this? Have you ever met them? No, you should go meet them. Okay. So that's the challenge that you always have is that how do you find good people to take care of you, to be able to refer and also importantly to also keep your own business going. Well, thanks for taking the time. Can we appreciate it? By the way, speaking of it, I'm not sure people. I never, I never introduced you to these guys who I am a terrible host apparently, but Ken, this is Andrew Barry, I have to be pro and this is Ken Hill. You can call him Ken. We all call him. We all call him. We all call him. We all call him. And I like your name. But I am a Ken. I am a Ken. We will all, we'll look forward to seeing you over there. And like I said, anybody who wants to take part. Let me know because I look forward to connecting with you guys too. It's got to be fun. And this is this is coming up. Yeah, that's pretty quick now in October. Yeah, it's about 65 days out. So we, you'd have time to register and with the, you know, decrease in price is more than affordable. And it's set to East and Mall, which is a fantastic place to go shopping. There's over 300 stores there. It's unbelievable. But I mean, the interactions and also the education, but also the experience is unparalleled because you actually get to truth from all these people. You know, what they say in stage is one thing. What they say in the hallway, completely different thing. Because I mean, they're not being videotaped. They're not being, you know, you can have an honest conversation. A lot of them do. And literally I've seen businesses being great. Well, the example is Dr. John Barardi, precision nutrition. He presented from in 2004. He met one of the guys there that he started precision nutrition with. And John just sold precision nutrition for a few years ago for nine figures. Wow. So nice. Yeah. So I think it's important to that everybody understands the listeners understand that the longer you wait and it gets closer to the symposium. It's going to get more expensive. I think it goes up a hundred dollars every a couple weeks. So you do. If you do want to go. It is a really good price. And to be honest with you, even the enterprise prior to going is still good, but it is it will go up. Two or three times I think before the symposium. So if you're right about going jumping now because you know, it's a great. Yeah. Yeah. At the door is six ninety nine. So with this price, it's three hundred dollars off. And it's an incredible price. And to meet you friends, meet old friends and just learn a ton. And just have fun. And the cool part is that as a trainer, you're going to see therapies that you have never seen before. Like with Dr. Jeremy German, we're actually going to get a patient. And he's going to do on stage live under diagnostic ultrasound, a PRP treatment. So we always hear about PRP and something's torn. You're going to actually see it done in real time right in front of you, which where would that ever happen? And then you're able to talk to them afterwards, which is pretty cool. What it's worth, I would have paid a thousand dollars to go. Just don't, don't, you know, hold me to that already paid for my. And thank you so much, can I really appreciate it. One more thing too. And there is an element of this that it is going to be in memory of John and my correct and memory of Louis. Well, what we've done is that I went to John Meadows, wife's place and with Dr. Xarono. And we did a podcast there and I asked permission with his wife, Mary, if I could do an omage tribute. And what that will be is that we're going to get all the different presenters that have worked with John in the past. And here's the one thing that I learned from John, you know, because John was always about education, talking about a coaching and everything else and everyone loved John and you present it for me for years, just an incredible human being, but we're going to be doing a tribute presentation for that. We tried setting something up for Louis and Louis wishes before he passed was you don't do that. So, you know, if you know, Louis, you know, where it's it's interesting that we're going to respect him by now because it's in. Columbus, there will be a lot of the west side people there and we'll we'll honor him in other ways other than being on stage. But for John, we're going to have a fantastic we'll have probably about 10 and 12 people up on stage. I think Victoria is going to be up on stage. She has to be on stage because I guess John was very influential in her career. She was just him to everyone. Including me, we wouldn't have it inadvertently met had it not been better John bringing her to the community she did and I want to mention to the Andrew was very close to John he had worked with John as a as a client of friend for for many years. So yeah, Mary actually mentioned to me the other day that you guys had stopped by and did because I talked to Mary a couple times a week you guys did the podcast and everything so she actually invited me to come out and stay with her for that one so. Fantastic. Yeah, it was it was a fun podcast but yeah we invited Mary and the boys to come out to the symposium it'll be a real touching and memorable time so it'll be again. I think the whole thing is that you know the past couple years have been really difficult for a lot of people and you just got it start you know living life you know you'll only live once. What the heck. Awesome. We appreciate you. Thank you gentlemen. Thank you appreciate it. Thank you. All right, that's good stuff. I'm looking forward to that too. I really am Andrew I assume with everything coming up man you're moving stuff that's probably not going to be in the cards for you. I have a short story yet. I'm going to make it the next two weeks in a session because we were closing coming up and then. Just figure out what projects we need to do and everything understood you know for the new place and the old place because we're doing a lot of renovations up here to get it ready for rentals. Nice. All right. Well hey, no pressure but if you can. Yeah, that would be cool man. That would be cool Mary Mary sent me an email the other day and was like asking if I'd come stay with her in the boys and everything so yeah. All right. Well, you know with this guys is a lot of you probably know we record two episodes. We have a bunch more content that we want to put out. But you know, we try to do that in two blocks and we've been going for a mile here. So let's wrap this thing up and then of course we'll have another segment out coming up real soon. We appreciate everybody who's watching. Of course if you guys are interested in coaching reach out to skip over at teamskip.com. You can reach out to Andrew. And your body buried that calm hit me up. McNally diets at gmail.com. I mentioned our sponsors earlier. I won't be labor all that you guys know who they are. And for another episode here of Blood Sweat and Gear with skip and Andrew. I'm Scott. We'll see you soon.

Would you rather have a ton of muscle or a full head of hair on my kids pretty obvious I made that choice? Let me see Yeah, I like that but ton of muscle Hey everybody welcome to it's just bodybuilding once again, of course my co-host dusty handsha the producer's got me nally I'm big round part low remember like share subscribe comment and Bring the bell absolutely and remember I am mutant calm I am mutant calm dusty 20 bigron 20 for 20% off Get your ISO surge get your all in and absolutely every single one of you should be on the gear so get on the gear There we go. Okay, and remember that you think big Patreon keep your producer home Thank you guys you know Scott doesn't you know get to buy all this fancy wires and microphone And all that stuff and it's got a download new stuff and keep his subscriptions up to date and you helped a lot out It helps it really does yeah I appreciate you guys I think I have a couple patreon questions today too So you guys comment I've got a thread over there. It's like a running thread anybody wants to comment on the show or for the shows You can comment over there you guys get priority Absolutely and you know we just want to also send a You know, I thank you up to everyone who comments and watches and shares and get your friends to watch it and you know It does all the algorithm stuff that we ask you to at the beginning of every episode and it just really helps move the show Where our numbers are growing subscribe is your growing views are coming up and we're just having a blast and we just want to thank each and everyone you guys for tuning in and Absolutely, you know, yeah, and also too Let's send a shout out Scott knows the details, but if you guys have seen all the great reels that were haven't made lately Those Instagram reels that were posting and we've got we've got somebody on that task for us Scott Alex has do not He Alex has killing it in fact. I'm gonna put I'll put his Instagram in the description If you guys want to give Alex a follow I'm sure he'd appreciate it because he's doing his own content too You know, and he's he's having a lot of fun with his own reels. He's got it like a really good tick-tock and stuff He told us we should get on tick-tock. He's probably right. I'm so old you know, I mean I haven't got I actually I did have tick-tock And then when I learned that the Chinese were spying on me with it I got rid of it so I don't have tick-tock right where I got to write down though it now I know I was so in my affirmation directly I climb with the communist party. I just saw them I was a star Reckles your western Yeah, all the time No, but you're actually a Hillary and I figure she'll take care of it from now Just yeah, I just tell Trudeau and he let's him know It is it is in his morning meeting where he takes orders. Okay, okay, here we are We're not political at all zero politics on this show Yeah, yeah, we're here to have fun. I know Scott's packing No Right now I was like Desklight I know there's a lot going on just out of camera shot You know just in case you never know I have to go to my closet open my safe Oh Target comes in So yeah, okay, so we're gonna open we got a good topic Let me know if I word this right Scott things that we used to think mattered that we now think don't And vice versa. Yeah, that's that's okay. Yes, this is where I'm dusty. He's thread last week This was from Dr. Marvin coming to this one in his specifics where what something you used to think matter? It a lot for bodybuilding and no longer do or vice versa Yes Like well, I I think I used to be Obviously you guys know I'm you know like sort of a lower technically lower volume trainer most of my life with like really high intensity and stuff like that I think I you I think that for a grand majority I put a little too much worry into how many total sets I was doing like Even doing one more set than norma as a host is gonna like This is gonna be like too much or one last set. I'd be like oh my god. I didn't I didn't get my volume like I Think that I was a little too obsessed with Trying to find a precise number of sets which is Which is why I often say to people don't worry so much about them these Little things you know to try it like you know that mean like I think it was afraid to try some things when I was I was really stuck in my sort of like dogmatic This is the one way I'm gonna train for a long time and I think I would have been better to just you know Be a little more free flowing maybe a little more adaptive, but I think that might have done me well if not just less stress So I think that's one thing I did that was probably unnecessary was just all the worrying about total volume all the time Yeah for for me the first thing that came to mind when I read that Was and and you a lot of you guys won't understand us because of the timeline But I know Ron and Scott you both will Back in the day everything was about nutrient timing obsession So like you went to the supplement store if you were having a if you needed a protein you were like with what time you gonna have it Like after I train and before bad that's two different proteins You need a way I still it after you train because it's gonna digest really really quickly and that's gonna get in that anabolic window I mean I was deathly afraid like if I really needed someone to have a Shake ready as soon as I put the bar down on my last set because I did not want to miss the anabolic window I mean I would literally bring the shake in and like shake it up before I did my last set That way when I got done and I put the weights away it was waiting because I did not want to lose the gains And then I would have a pure casing at night and then I learned oh wait wait that's not true I want to have a I want to have a blend where I've got way and egg and casing all the way so it's slowly Seeps into my systems so I don't lose all my gains while I'm asleep and Then I got older and I was like I had to make sheep protein at some point and it blows clients away now like I have a new couple new clients and I Rode out their plan and they were like oh you don't have me having carbs after a channel like I have no idea what time of train They were like oh what do I do like do you want carbs after your train? Yeah, then move them Just take them from another meal slide them over and like in fact if you want to have two You know because I think I have my like two hundred 50 grams of rice Like if you want all of that rice from two meals post where I got had it just don't have it earlier And that's something that I really learned is like all of those things we used to obsess about Now my thought process is simple. I send to my clients and like what you see on this diet I want you to eat between the time you wake up and the time you go to bed other than that. I don't care Yeah, five meals six meals four meals don't care That's a great one. I think meal timing was a huge thing Obviously you want to spread your food out right and that's why we say eat every two to three hours Just shredding it out so you can get it in and absorb it and like not be bloated and not have to eat giant meals to take an hour and all that stuff But I would be like I've I've ever losing my mind because I was like five minutes Passed a three hour mark yeah, and like just being just Raging my day it would ruin my day it really have and I remember as I got older and I started Hanging around really good body builders I Like as you get older you start hanging around guys that have one nationals and Have their pro cards or they're really high level super heavy weights and they're like you know The first time you hang out with a 280 pound super when you're a kid and And you see how comm some of them were they're like yeah, yeah, I got to get another meal here in the next like You know as long as they get one in the next hour I'm okay, you know get my meal in then I could train and then I'm on so you know and they were just way more like You know, but they're older guys they got jobs They got shit going on they got kids or whatever like and you start to see like oh, this is Software running in the background yes, this isn't this isn't like Like the main thing in front of you the whole day and I started to kind of get it over time and then you become that 280 pound super heavyweight Start to real eye and you start having a real life as you get older and you're working two jobs and you got a lot going on and you're like Oh, I'm bigger and stronger than I've ever been and I'm worrying less and less about the minutes and yeah this sort of stuff It's it's all about consistency over time It's not about like losing yourself in the minutia Yeah, yeah, those are I've got a couple I can think of The one of them is is the gear side of things I would I got really complicated with it Earlier on thinking that like okay, I'm gonna start out and kick start with this because it's faster acting and then go to this and I'm gonna switch my testosterone to this one You know this different aspect and like really honestly what I ended up finding is you find the things that work well for you You lean into those things and then you you clear your brain of all of that nonsense and you focus on other aspects because it's really Just like the other stuff you get you figure out what's gonna work and you run that and then you put your energy into the next thing I wish that I would have at that stage Investored more energy into my training You know, I was just talking to Scott Stevenson about this yesterday, but I think that training something that we can always Continue to learn about there's like no end to the next step of what's gonna be right for you, you know And yeah, I wish I would have invested more into that the food thing. Yeah, I could definitely relate to that too And I feel like we all have to go through that because we have to like we have to first figure out What like a hundred percent strict is it in order to figure out You know how what we can get away with and Related my other one was I was really terrified of losing muscle during a diet I thought right you know you really needed to be so careful and and that ended in 2015 when I dieted down is like I just I took it head on and I dieted too hard intentionally and I just said I want to see how far it'll go and I got down to my stage weight I've told you guys about this before, but I got down to my stage weight of the previous show and then I kept going for like another eight weeks And I went harder and I ended up dropping like freaking 20 pounds now Honestly, I didn't look terrible at stage. I almost won like second second second place missed it But one place the guy who beat me in that class and it up going on to win the overall and it was a hell of a competition against him Had I been fuller 10 times however, which I could have been I could have been just as lean You know what I mean And maybe I would have done it who knows but honestly though after that I can't I bounced right back, you know There were diets that I had kind of my legs got smaller from the cardio I was doing But then post show little while later their backs six weeks later. They were back So I realized there's a big difference between muscle loss and muscle flatness, you know But true losing muscle it's not as easy as I once thought it was I was terrified of it at one point That's a great one because You know I I I had a few nationals early on my first nationals. I looked really great. I got second But then I thought you know I went fell into that trap as a young bodybuilder like oh I have to be a lot bigger and Obviously yes, you do have to be bigger, but you know what we mean by bigger actually getting bigger and Yeah, so then that's heavier my second my second nationals. I came in way too heavy and I was all I remember that whole prep I was obsessed with like not losing any muscle Because I had some people tell me all you're just a little flat, you know, so then that got on my head as a young bodybuilder And I came in the next year and I wound up in fifth place out of like 15 guys But I was way off what I should have looked like It's like so mad at myself for falling into that trap because I knew I'd fallen for it You know what I mean and Yeah, and and and and then I remember the first year I worked with Chris We were Like six weeks out or something and he's like let's lean into it. Let's pull all your carbs from post workout And I remember that was like the first times No carbs post workout. He's like no just have your cup of oats in the morning and let's just go no carbs all day Yep, and then like okay, and I was like oh I hope I don't lose any muscle I lost like zero muscle right Yeah, I just was great. I just like felt like tired and with a whole thing but I got way harder and everything just fell into place and You know you just there's all these fears that you have and you know when you pounded muscle in it doesn't Leave that easily I wanted to add just because there was something that you brought up run on my post yesterday that it's important You don't lose muscle quickly if you give your body a reason to maintain size And we've talked about this a million times, but I feel you're there's three reasons to have to to maintain or to grow Obviously food input training output and supplements the Medically enhanced supplements Format medical stuff yes, yes, that's tough. Yes, and I think where people go wrong Very very often and perhaps is we pull the food down because you have to The cardio goes up because it has to Then the training intensity drops which it doesn't have to and now the only thing you have that's changed is Supplements and That's where I think people lose size because the confusion is in the fact that I think you need two of those things to make sure you at least Maintain so I was Obsessive and this is something I push on all my clients like do not let yourself Train less intensely. I'm not saying you got to be break in records of strength, but You need to really be watching how hard training because We don't have the food there and you don't have the the training intensity There's no reason for your body to maintain the muscle mass and people don't realize that It's like why do you think when guys stop training they shrink? Because they're not eating anymore than I think they used to and they're not training like they used to Why is it when I came down those things didn't change? Because I don't want to train any other way yet So the muscle is staying purely because I'm Giving it a reason to it has to stay there to continue moving these loads and and that's an area where Suddenly can matter and I don't like people go, oh, I think I lowered the food too much Right now you started to train like a bitch that's the problem You know that famous quote Well, I think it's not yes It's not it's like this is not famous enough if I can't remember who said it but that poem I do not go quietly into that good night It's about death like don't you know what I mean and I remember that always was in my head during prep like You have to have the mentality I know that This isn't about the way it's you left. It's about how hard you train but you have to battle to stay strong and you have to mentally Fight to stay strong and don't give up ground easily you are going to have to drop your weights a little We're gonna get to four weeks out when your pressing is not what it was and we're gonna but you You have to conceit make those concessions as minimally as possible like I remember Let's say I was doing incline with 345 for 8 reps off season yeah, you know I'd start to die at I would always lose some fluid and now maybe I'm down to like 325 for my working set That's okay. I was got a little a little weaker when I dropped 10 pounds out of the you know the shoulders and stuff And but then I would battle like Battle to keep that 325 on a bar for as many weeks as I possibly could and you're gonna get that one week Reign only get five reps and you're okay Now I'll concede to like 315 not I'm not going down to 275. Oh, I'm not that strong today It would be minimal minimal concession like I would give an inch but I would plant my flag in the ground at that inch again and try to hold on to that for another three weeks And then maybe your strength goes down again because you're on zero carbs, but you don't give two feet you give an inch And you know keep you know like it was like for I was very very very very determined to fight to stay strong through the prep and You know, maybe I'm doing five plate stiff legads at the beginning of the prep and I'm only doing four plate stiff legads at the end But I'm not doing two plates The other concession the selves The other concession people make is is mental before it's even there Yes, the amount of people that are like and you see this it's like you could have very easily run when Chris took away those carbs postwork out Oh, I'm just weak now. I'm just tired. Yeah, no you're not No, you're not like I really don't think people understand the power of deciding You know I used to tell people in the gym because you'll have some me say I'm off today and they say like two or three times I do go home Yeah, you're off You're deciding that you're off like I'm not saying that you don't feel like oh, this is a little bit not the same today But if you just consistently tiresome it's like if you say keep saying you're I'm sick I'm getting sick. I can feel I'm getting sick. Yeah, yeah, I'm getting sick. I feel like you know Just reset make a different maneuver, you know, maybe you say okay This doesn't feel quite right today. So I'm gonna go do another movement whatever it may be But people I have clients to do that two weeks into a prep I mean the strength starting to dep him like why you're fat as shit There's no reason for you to be weaker yet. I mean I really do think that people don't know how strong their minds are and how much that controls the strength of your body I'll be honest. I found that my performance enhanced sometimes during prep tell the very very end because now Everything is perfect my sleep is the best it can be I mean my entire life rotates around being prepared for this workout every day and Although the food was down also my mental focus was higher like when you've got You know the stage looming you tend to bring a little bit more even though you thought you were killing it before I mean you know everyone in my gym knows what I'm getting ready for like that had a little pressure There was just a lot of things that kind of kept me moving forward and I think a lot of people It was truly mental so you have to make sure again getting back to the purpose of this whole rant was The reason you don't drink is you don't let yourself Yeah, if you take it all the way of course you do you you can't just take you know the the supplements and then Not train hard and not eat and go, I don't know why I lost size. I'm you crazy. Of course you did There's a little bit of denial you have to live in a little bit like Like you know like let's say you go in and I mean I remember going through this okay my in Klein barbell press is down I lost 25 pounds I have long arms it's always the first thing to go on me as the press It goes down a bit but I'm 20 pounds lighter so now my hack squat goes up Right like there's always something else going on and I think what happens is people go in and they're like for Example they're in Klein presses down today So then for the rest of their chess work out they're like oh, I'm weaker today No, no, you might be just as strong on flies. Yeah, yeah, there might be no strength loss on your flies because I went through that My press would be down and then I'd go to my fly movement and I'd be like just as strong as normal because you're not Pressing there's no you know the fluid and stuff isn't as much of a factor or Or yeah your strength might be down on your on this exercise, but it's actually up on your hacks now because you're lighter So you can't just give up into like You know the one thing happens the press goes down. Oh, I'm I'm weaker now That exercise is weaker for you Right you might get stronger in other things because you're on all the best supplements and you're eating all of you know The protein and all that stuff There's the mental thing there's a perspective thing in there too because I've known so many people and you guys have two There was said like oh, I don't die yet I don't compete because I don't like losing strength You know there's that whole thing like for you Ron you were a strong dude You're talking about moving some serious weight and then having to use a little bit less But you're not getting like depressed over it. You know what I mean? You know, you're not letting that get you down because that could ruin some of this day like oh man I failed you know what I mean? No, I always thought of it as like fighting a war and you're you're you're moving your flag If you have to move the flag back it's as little as possible You know what I mean and and you're gonna and hopefully get it up and again, you know like I don't know It's that's whole thing in my head, you know You gotta talk yourself into some some stuff when you're prepping for a show and you're moving big weights and stuff and I just You gotta fight to the end It doesn't like rocky it doesn't matter if you're getting a shit beat out of your face like don't go down Like like you can you can survive this like you make it to the bell and you're still standing and You're shredded and you got all your muscle like I just I had that mentality and I don't know how to explain it any other way Is you did either of you guys have that same I mean I I I feel like I already know the answer I'm asking but Where you would be tired and I would I would tell myself like You know, yeah that day they're like I do not want to do these barbell walking lunges make your smoke You're hurting and then I'm like I'm I'm pretty sure that the guy who's naturally better than me won't do these today Right, so I'm gonna do them or one thing I got told Nicky I used to do this to myself Sometimes I'll be on the step mill I hate that stupid thing and I just have a quick thought like Maybe I'll cut out two minutes early just I would think it never do it and as soon as I thought I'd add five minutes My cool seven more to go Like I was I would punish myself for even thinking stuff like that But in reverse it was very positive like I don't think someone else is doing this right now And they might have been but it definitely helped me do some extra things I didn't want to do when you're like this could be the difference and I feel like that's the the main goal is to Make it to the stage knowing that there's nothing you could do better and that was always I think an area where I thrived which was I didn't have to win because I was never going to lose a show I would just get beaten and I that's fine that just means you're better than me and There's nothing I can do about that there's no defense and bodybuilding But I could always look back and be like there's absolutely nothing I would have changed Yeah, so whatever happens happens. It's fine. You know, yeah I've got a name and and and and this is this is my motivation Dan Strudgeon Dan Strudgeon want to show that I was in and I said to myself Okay, so I might not never meet Dan Strudgeon on stage again We did end up becoming friends and actually coach him later But I said to myself like if I'm going to beat Dan Strudgeon then I need to do this You know what I mean like I need I can't be weaker I have to do my best because I need to beat him even though in my head I'm like I might never see him again, but At that moment in the gym. I'm competing. Yeah, you know what I mean? Yeah, that's the best Yeah, I don't need to talk with when the first USA's ever went to I went as I just to watch Obviously, I was like a kid and I'm sitting in the in the the stands and it's kind of like a vertical thing at UNLB and My buddy Bruce does with he nudged me and he goes You know in order to be ready for this stage and he'd be able to beat that guy and And in front of me was this monster just sitting there in the chair and I'm like Who is that? You know and So I looked him up and it was Sean Allen you guys remember him big shot Yeah, so big beating against him yeah, and so I Years later I do my first USA's now I took fifth at the USA's the first time and it was so funny because Bruce that was my friend He had moved and I get a text message and he goes I called this I'm like what does it what do you mean and he sends me the top 15 And Sean Allen took ninth okay, and I took fifth and he goes you belong on that stage You had the right that guy That everybody hit me like I was like oh, that was the guy Because I had totally forgotten about it. I mean we're talking years later Like I was a kid when it happened he was but I remember going oh, that's right So you know those little things that you're like okay put that in my mind I appreciate that Yeah, that's awesome No, that's not him no That was true. Yeah, yeah, yeah, big of my memory. Yeah, I'm gonna. That name for a while. I'm gonna find him. Oh, I think we got him here He's not looking at he's not looking super peeled here though Yeah, he's just monster. Yeah, he was such a big dude. He was like six five six six six Yeah, he's giant yeah See, you can see he looks like he's kneeling here next to Palombo Yeah, exactly leaned way back That is funny. I've got a great picture with me and Dan Decker and Sean Roden and Sean Allen All backstage posing at the North Americans one year. Oh no kidding I'm like all of us went on to get our pro cards eventually Yeah, but that was a year Sean Roden turned pro as a Sean that day Too low seven naturally One that show yeah, what a great show But yeah, yeah, there's a good old days dusty you brought back a flashback and Sean Allen there I love all those stories too like that with the natural ones I remember when when Kai Green won that When he won that best posing award and he was like well, I'm natural and everyone's like he's not natural And then all of a sudden he gains 40 pounds and like three months like oh Yeah, he loved People always cry natural and then the guy puts 30 pounds on his first years of pro and they're like yeah Yeah, here's my bad for you. Here's perspective for you. Yeah, yeah, that's a big show Now you can understand why it like 22 years old and I've got to be that guy Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, hey, you should remember the the Kai Green clip I sent you guys Yes, I don't remember it off hand did you see it on the Instagram Got you put that up All right give me a minute. Yeah, Phil for it. I don't film me for me while I find this Yeah, so anyways this this Kai Green clip comes across Mike Pusanella puts it up because he shot it at like the 2010 Arnold Okay, and it's in our it's just bodybuilding chat there on Instagram But he puts it up and all of a sudden they start getting messages from people. They're like what the Well look at this and I'm like you guys don't remember Kai Green Dia you youngsters. I was there Yeah, 13 years ago And and then I send it yeah, yeah, yeah, all right, yeah, let's play this I said this to a cito and I go how does he place and the cito replies Thank you And I replied I He said what do you think and I said well, I think he'd probably win and he said easily that was his reply easily But this was I mean this Kai Green like we forget what Kai look like Guys, this is the Arnold time This is at the 2010 Arnold yeah, and remember he built Phil Heath Remember he beat Phil Heath at that show yeah, I was there that was that was one of the Arnolds that I got to go to I was a big Kai fan and and it was kind of like he was on he kind of became more of a character Of himself you know what I mean, but yeah, yeah, and man he was just like one hardcore bad dude I'll tell you people don't remember him You know I mean Crazy shit in the gym too like he's doing a six plates squats for wraps and five plate inclines and Doing all that crazy stuff he was doing with Oscar and the jam you remember the big weights He's pushing although loved it. Yeah And Oscar also did every movement in the gym Yeah, but I mean like I don't know man. I know times change but Do they like where does Kai land now? Where does this physique land now? It's insane Yeah, and that's what I often say about Phil Heath because like think you know this this physique beat Phil that day And then Phil obviously made some improvements and went on to win but that that era with Kai and Phil I know everyone just kind of thinks of Kai and Phil blah blah blah But they were like a stone wall no one was getting through those two they were like it was crazy how good they were I gave Kai all the respect in the world during that time and I didn't realize I never gave Phil what he deserved until it was over Then I looked back and I was like whole I think I was so jaded by Ronnie that I never gave Phil What he deserved and then eventually I started seeing old clips. I'm like yeah I don't even remember him being this sparkers and I was at every Olympia he won And it's like where was my head in those moments because I was like he's not Ronnie I was like my answer He's not Ryan I'm like really he's we're gonna pretend like he's garbage It's 40 and I've been Ronnie was 280 so yeah, but meanwhile then you start really looking and you're like His rear double oh I used to arrogantly be like Ronnie smokes every rear double. I'm like I don't know I'd have to see those two really next to each other Well and poses like the side chest and never really liked how Ronnie posed his side chest It was like never I didn't like how he set up his leg I didn't like how he'd kind of rolled his shoulder forward a little bit and yeah Just do just so big it didn't matter. I just didn't really like Ronnie side chest and then Phil's side chest was like an absolute bonkers work of art Like everything was probably like Phil kind of wins that pose damn like I know Ronnie's like the greatest of all time and they go And everything but it wasn't a runaway like no, it'd been crazy. Well and think about it too like in that era We weren't as concerned about ab control, you know, so like everybody had bigger thicker stomachs that said Phil's stomach was still by by like everybody else by that standard It was tighter imagine him today if you were Training in today's standards being super conscious of his midsection that whole time yeah, he could be he could be Incredible still right now, you know yeah good good times, but to think that 13-year-old video a guy Come this out and people are like oh I might have gone this that's So speaking of the Arnold you guys see the news and you're jacked. Oh, yeah, hold out of both arms He put up a post today. It's all over the place. He said do do do there's too much going on in my life I've got a lot going on right now. I will never I don't want to do this show and be less than a hundred percent So I'll be withdrawing from both Arnold's So now they're talk about you know is there gonna be a penalty? You know because sometimes they get fine You know if they sign a contract and then don't show up because that's sort of stuff which I'm sure isn't his main concern if he's got stuff going on But what do you guys think of that it kind of You know clears the path a little bit it does it's a shame. That's for sure I mean I think a lot of people were excited to see we were excited to see what was gonna happen because we had him right up there You know what I mean yeah, yeah, well we got you know we had who did we have in the top three I mean we're looking at we're looking at Samson and And you're jacked and who else was on the list that we had in the top three? Haddy had he's doing the show? Yeah, yeah, so that was our that was our top three and then of course You know Nexil is in there, which will be really crazy. I mean who knows why he's gonna look like I mean He shows up with detail. That's a different that's a different situation. Yeah, it's gonna be cool to see how he Stands up against those guys. Yeah, he compares to them, you know. Yeah, it's funny. I I tell people you know we get the odd criticism Not that I remember when when we did When we did the Arnold we talked about the Arnold a couple episodes ago and people were like Nexil is in the Arnold. I'm like I know we just didn't get through the list like we We did But we do like we look at the list we talk about four names and then when we're just about to talk about the name that you are thinking of Dusty tells a fart joke or She's a man She's a shinier squirrel it's really hectic dog is parking. It's a lot going on and so yeah and and then also I got to say You guys got to give us a little bit of leeway. I saw one guy commented We'd on the Tom have a land video. He's like he wasn't special services and I'm like hey The group told me he said do your research. I was literally on Google like Google his name And I know all these things came up and the one said Ex special forces monster lifts heavy weights. I'm like oh he's Ex special forces scroll scroll scroll We do My research. I'm not like looking a yeah, yeah, yeah, you know So the Australian special forces and check that out Ron get this before I say this Yeah, I thought that comment. I kind of felt like I'll come on man like what kind of standards Are you trying to hold people to here's was my thought like you? I want to watch And assume we're checking into this Expect for us We go a bodybuilding and only talk about four people and leave the a winner out and you think we're gonna mention the winner Yeah, if it's not in a meme I don't know Like quite simple if it's not in a Joe Rogan AI video then I don't mention it Somebody come last episode. This is a great episode. I can't believe the whole thing was AI Right yeah, there you go Well, that's how you knew it was a I could have a scissor better the less we show up. Yeah Very valid okay, well, I don't even remember what our opening topic was, but I'm sure I didn't know really Cooperative thoroughly. We did we did best game and plus a bunch other stuff too and then wound up talking about kygreen What's next on the list got you know we want for us? I still have I do have some show in tell for later in the show I have this box which we shall unveil But you had a topic for us and we're gonna try to dance around this one really carefully I had a guy he mentioned he said in make three good points to convince a Jim Brody use gear Don't I thought this is a terrible idea. I have to present this to the guys first thing in the morning So I thought I would share how it happened to me Okay, because I like I don't want to steal credit for this So here's how it went down when I was a kid I was trained by a natural bodybuilder and I decided like I kind of like You know what you said Ron I planted my flag and the natural thing and I was talking to the guy I used tint windows and I was telling my boss is well, I'm gonna stay natural He goes why did I go well because it's like the right thing I mean that way everything I Gain is mine Yeah, and it's really I'm also and he goes oh I have a thought and I was like okay and mind you this is a guy that smoked two packs a day in our bed Never worked out of day in his life and I was like all right what's up and he goes You know Melissa that works with the drill on the drive and I'm like yeah he goes Do you like your tits and I'm like Yeah, he goes does it bother you that they're not natural And he goes order you just like him because they're bigger and I go that's a good point and I am immediately ordered Can you get this debaust Yes, I can Yeah, that's Mark that time. I just used a word. I'm supposed to use Scott Yes, I'm doing so I just used the word We had a whole coverage about what not to say and then I was like We're being careful. We're being careful here. Yes, so that was how I was convinced and I thought it was genius because I was like He makes a valid point. He does make a valid point. I I remember training in in high school And like I was 17 and grade 12 and I was you know natural, but I knew that like you know It was a thing. I knew that I was eventually going to get to that like I already talked to the guys at the gym They're like you two young right now, but like yeah later on, you know and So I remember I went to train at the college one day because a college had a pretty good gym back in the day where I lived right and everyone's so well I'd go train at the college just Scope out some maybe there's some volleyball chicks in there or something who knows right and how will agree? I mean I think that it would be 18 okay 18 so you just like the younger age of still being able to like fit in with the college group Plus your tall guy so you probably yeah, big guy and I was already you know Yeah, and I was already mentioned three plates when I was seven a cabin street plates when I was 17 right So I go in the college gym and I was like stronger than all the athletes there. Yeah, so so I was in there You know, I go in there rip it up once in a while and I talked to some guys you know And I remember they had these signs up on the walls like anti juice signs and there's like one of like the back of a guy's head and it was bald And it's like yeah, yeah, you know steroids will make you lose your hair and then there's like another one up in the locker room and it was like Like a guy standing there alone It was like steroids will make you infertile And then there'd be another sign of like you know The guy like going like this and it'd be like you know juice will make you angry and I was like that's it Was it all you're doing? I'm totally fine with like Change for those things I get a ton of muscle. I'm in yeah, I'm pretty calm guy I don't really want kids and I don't know my hair is pretty thick I don't think it's going anywhere for at least 30 years so you're gonna need a better argument And I just remember to just be like oh, yeah, okay. Well, they're not doing a very good job I don't know who this is gonna convince I just wish you got I don't think I saw those signs does he deserve a seat of those signs anywhere No, I never did I and that's funny though because I've had the reverse They got told you guys this I had somebody asked me on my Q and A one time Like would you rather have a ton of muscle or a full head of hair on my kids pretty obvious I made that choice Let me see Tana muscle And luckily enough there's plenty of women that like the band guys were shaved heads so I was a pretty With the worst of the world. Why have the lose? Yeah, I had nothing to lose Nothing to lose. There's someone for everybody dusty Exactly Yeah, I just remember what you know You know, oh god Remember this one guy I remember back when I was like There was probably 17 or 16 or something. I was younger and I remember the one guy at the gym was like soon as you're 18 I'm gonna get you on some test Not like no not me not me. You know, I'd rather be the biggest guy in the gym naturally than the biggest guy In the country on juice or something. I think that's my dumb quote at the time Yeah, and he looked at me and he just Exploded in like rockus laughter Like And it was like genuine laughter like he got triggered to laugh Yeah, and I remember he's just laughing in my face like a real laugh Yeah, and I was like and he looks at me goes that's the dumbest thing I've ever heard What and he goes and then I remember he put his hand on my shoulder goes given another year or two kid You realize how dumb that was and he'd walk away That's amazing Forever Like things were going on my head because I was like you know, I was like young enough that I was like still know right Yeah, I was like oh, oh, maybe he's got some points and then you know Just funny. Yeah, on his 18th birthday runs like I admitted it was dumb. Where do I get it? No, no, but I do remember do you make guys remember the first time you ever bought any super supplements? Of course I came out of okay, well tell tell me your story dusty. He buying some super subs for the first time You need to get subway. How does it go down? No, so I actually Now that the store doesn't exist. I can say this I had him come by the store. He used to come in there and He was in and I knew that he was the guy and I was like hey I want to get some stuff and he was like okay Oh Cut short by people didn't exist or let's see why does she got a like smash the door knowing I'm on the podcast With the stuff Kills me You're gonna have barking dogs to make sure the feds aren't listening Don't harm your legs So anyways, hi, no, you're the whole world knows you're here Anyways, the So he comes in because he goes because what do you need and I was like Well, what do you have and he literally unzips the fan he pack? Wow, he folds out the fan he packed dealer. Yeah. Oh right then in there and he pulls up ampules Premo Glass amps around it is fan he packed that's not sick 90s how much are those now? Remember I wish I could remember But he 25 was like you can have 10 of them for this and I was like All right, can I have him now? He's like sure so I bought him from right then in there And actually that night I took my first shot in the back there which I was sweating it was some NASA So I was a deal Say for those who are like oh, it doesn't really do much I put on 25 pounds in 10 weeks taking one of those a week It was those Two amps yeah, and I mean and the wildest part was I will never forget I was doing a dumbbell shoulder press in the gym This is five weeks in and I'm like all right shooting for eight you know I know I got my numbers and I kick them up nine 10 11 I kind of look back in the mirror at my training partner 12 13 I put him down I'm like this stuff is awesome So kids don't do it. It's not worth it. Um terrible idea I remember the first I remember the first stuff I I remember I was kind of thinking I'm like oh, you know, maybe I'll do some stuff right You know and I remember my buddy Was at the gym one day and you go take I guess spot and I was like yeah, sure and I went over and I know he was like press and like the hundred pound dumbbells Right and they get over there and he's got the one 10s And I remember like he was a really good friend of mine. So I knew like oh, this is heavy for him like he's I go you're doing these like yeah, and he gets back and cranked so like six or seven reps I spot him on a wrap like that's your best set every is like yep week two on deba nice And I was like Oh, yeah, and you were sold you saw the I want to be doing literally literally the next day. I was like so Did you get that stuff and he's like oh that guy and I was like okay So I just went over and I was like hey can I was wondering if I could double up on what what he did and he's like sure come on my place tonight kid I still remember What else he comes of ban Yeah, it says get you to I like roll passes place and knock and it's like one of those places like this dog's bark in and you keep people running It's a good hectic household yeah, and he just comes to door gives me a big People big sheets of this these blue Russian deballs oh good ones too gives me these sheets and with a rubber band around them He's like here you go on a game. I'm 300 bucks. I still remember Give me 300 bucks for the give me all these deballs like a dollar pill and Yeah, it was just the first time I remember and it was just it I was like really nervous driving home I said cool You know I get trouble Yeah, then I agree I think people on this show also understand how much money $300 was in our life at that point Well technically that was like with the inflation I was like $1200 in in the face Seriously like I think back of whatever you know 250 or whatever it was I remember like well Minivan wages like 475 at the time Super the math we're talking to me 50 when I yeah, that's like a dollar for all the Americans watching You know You can threaten to make a huge for Nike, but anyways, yeah, you can rent an apartment You could rent an apartment for 400 a month. Yeah. Yeah, you could so you know There you go Gas was like 87 cents a gallon too. So you guys don't do gallons over there in Canada, but leaders Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, but yeah, but yeah, it's good times, you know by and doing a sketchy little Sketchie little supple middo with your neighborhood gym guy get going on your first run, you know This is some amazing stories and I know you guys for this long I've heard so many stories. I never heard either of those stories before and The key is I made sure I transported them home In my fany pack There it is Yeah, that's where they go. I remember I got a little older when I was working in the bars and guys were still wearing Fanny packs like late nineties early 2000s. We were still all the door guys were still wearing them And to us it was like a bodybuilder thing like you got your wallet your keys pack a gum Little blistacks maybe a condom back in the days when used to think we really were And And And Really funny good Hey, I'm still here. I didn't die. I made the nities So You get And then I started running into other bodybuilders because that's all I carried in mine and they all had like tons of gear and their Fanny pack Like you guys carry gear around with y'all the time and really get a nice one preload I got my debol tabs for the rest of the day. Wow. I'm like, oh, I just carry my stuff in my family pack You know, you're carrying Blistacks Normal normal stuff in here and then I remember Group striping one The one cop I was friends with was like yeah everyone knows at Fanny packs or just everyone who wears a Fanny pack Just full of drugs That's funny. That was like oh that's it everyone thinks and the cop was like All of us every time we see any one of the Fanny pack with you all guys Fanny packs full of bucks every single one of them And I was like It was right 99% of the time Yeah, yeah, yeah, the fan. I did some Fanny pack After that I was trying to be you know better members society So Hey, I've got an important question guys. I forgot we did have one listener question that I really wanted to make sure we nailed I also wanted to say guys comment with questions for the next show because we're gonna need them I'm going to make sure we we got this one ink because I know we're forgetting further into the show But we needed to help this dude out He said is it possible that I am unable to grow anymore? I've taken two years off of Competing the bulk no matter how hard I train how much I eat or how much gear I use I can't get past 225 Well I mean at least is 225. I hear this from a 185 pound person. I'm like come on But I mean I don't know what to say other than it's math you know um You have to eat more calories if you eat enough calories you will get heavier like it's absolutely will happen like there's just a tipping point that you haven't hit yet Whether or not that's muscle or fat that's another Part of the equation that I'm not equipped to answer for sure But if you're just trying to move the scale it's just a matter of calories and I know it might seem Like it doesn't make sense but we've talked about this before sometimes the math doesn't add up Like I remember being 320 eating 6,000 calories a day and my weight dropping to 319 the next morning and you know You know I have to have a large pizza tonight and have a large pizza and then the next day I'm 318.5 Like how can this be possible and then maybe the next day just randomly I'm 320.5 and like she's like what's going on like It's not always about you know the math it doesn't always make sense sometimes you have to do the big Giant platter of wings in front of the football game every Sunday like dust he used to do you know and it's it's tricky I was gonna say and again this is this isn't for the person that asked but everyone who's watching is I don't I don't know but typically When there's a comment like that and I can't get past use of the answer is consistency the amount of people who Do exactly everything he just said Every single day of every single week of every single month of every single year for two years isn't They're not the ones that are usually struggling to see forward progress It's very rare that you show me someone who's consistently giving a hundred and ten percent and I said consistently to all of those things that just stops. No, he wrong. I mean obviously There is a point where progression drastically slows what you talk about your first year of training for growth versus your tenth is a different thing But I grew to the end of my career And I think typically the difference is being truly honest with their consistency So what I recommend for anyone who's pretty sure logbook everything you eat All day every day and then review it the amount of people who I have found through helping them Oh you're missing five meals a week you told me you haven't missed a meal and forever You know, oh you thought you were cheating twice a week you're cheating nine times a week Which is then causing you to be overly full and you're missing two meals after that You know there's a lot of things that will usually run into play so I think What helps is just writing it down. It's very easy. We all work hard and you know like I'm doing really good But when it hits paper I think a lot of times people are oh it I'm not doing quite as good as I thought And then if they adjust let's start to change The the slow creep of small numbers is is is a problem that people don't realize so You know they'd be like oh I don't miss meals and then you know you look at the plan and they missed six meals in a month Well guess what that's an entire day of food Yeah, so would you go an entire day without eating anything because that's what you just did technically this month Is you had a day where you didn't eat a single calorie technically right if you look at it It missed six meals in a month you might think well that's nothing that six meals in a month But that's an entire day where you fasted if you think about it mathematically And how hard is it gonna be to be the game weight if you keep doing that every month have I like a you know what I mean So and then also two little things like oh I'm trying it my calves to grow you know I I smash him really hard three times a week okay. Well how many sets did you all I do you know eight sets three times a week for calves But then you look and they're actually doing six or sometimes five and at the end of the month you're like well You're missing 25 total sets that you you think you're doing and you're telling yourself you're doing But at the end of the month you're down 25 sets that's a lot of volume So if you're really trying to hammer calves to get them to grow you're you're missing the mark So that's slow creep of thinking I'm doing everything but you know Dusty's right you start writing it down Shit this stuff missing and in another conversation you guys might call that like the menu Sure you don't need to pay attention to but in this conversation that's like that's assuming everything's working right Like if everything's working you don't need to necessarily dig in that deep, but I see what you're saying like Okay, if it's not if things aren't working then why don't I really take a deep look yeah everything I'm doing with my diet With my training and I wonder about his training style because I can tell you this that I made a certain level of progress And this is through my late late 20s 30s and then into my early early 40s, but then I you know things kind of tapered off though at a certain point then when I changed my training in my like mid 40s I started making progress that I didn't think I was capable of making and I wasn't even like trying as hard I wasn't taking as much super supplements. I wasn't I wasn't as focused on the diet as I had like there were points That I was so laser to in on the diet and on my training and on the gear all that stuff and I At this point like I wasn't doing all those things, but my training was better And I was progressing in the gym and all of a sudden I was like oh man I see myself continuing to go if up If I continue on this course So yeah, maybe there's something in there like you know just because your training program has gotten you to two 25 doesn't mean that that's gonna continue taking you to two 35, you know Yeah, we've got to keep in mind to to answer your Your thing about the the small detail Scott and I agree it's that When I was in that portion of my life in Scott like we talked about things that mattered we thought matter then that didn't now Yeah, if you said to me What did you eat meal three Thursday the 13th? I could tell you because it was the same thing I meal three today Okay, so I never wrote it down because I literally ate the same thing every single day Well, whoever was on my diet yeah, and it only altered when the diet altered so when I would say I didn't miss meals I was being extremely literal because I filled I mean I know wrong was this way too I left my house for the full cooler every day and I came home with an empty one and all the food was packed and managed and the only thing that I altered as I got more experienced was I Actually brought an additional four cups of rice and ten asks of meat with me because if I was hungry enough I ate that also okay Because that was you know that was like my okay if we can get it down Let's eat more So it was really really simple, but you know that's it's usually like those little things like wrong set I mean for me it was sleep. I always struggled the sleep and I just had to find a way So I couldn't I couldn't seem to control that it's like then I learned oh I can nap pretty well So I would literally get 20 minute naps twice a day when I could and then that all the sudden I go rowing again You know, so look for things that you can control that maybe you know You do realize aren't perfect you might say whether out of my hands That's all right. Is there a way we can manipulate what's in your control to improve? You know and I think you you know that also Scott because I've seen that even now like I can't train exactly how I used to But I can definitely put on muscle still if I choose to by training a different one Yeah, I'd want more about the box. Oh one more quick one fat grip. Okay. What do you guys think? fat grips I'm already very very uncomfortable with Thickness and that just makes me more in-bus Oh wait what are you talking This is girth anyways. No to me those I don't do any of that nonsense, but I know people like them whatever. Yeah. I don't know If you like me like I'm I'm not I'm not Believer that they're gonna make your arms bigger anything they might make it tougher to hold on too Great for grip strength or something like you know what I mean I totally get that I remember the first time I remember when I went to Archer's gym in Australia for the first time and I went to do dumbbells and they had like Unusually fat handles on their dumbbells You know and I remember just being like oh, I never Encounter dumbbells like this if it was just you know bigger than any other dumbbell I'd ever used to is you know an Unusual size and I just remember thinking like oh is a grip challenge because you know your hand wasn't closing over the handle When you're doing dumbbell presses is a little bit strange at first. Yeah, but I remember just getting used to it and Thinking like oh, I think my grip strength is a little better now from you know curling them and rowing them and stuff like So um there's that but I never really put any thought into them or anything. I don't really like I don't know carrying around a bunch of gadgets and stuff I see people with big full gym bags with 20 different things and I mean I like my risk cuffs for side laterals on the cables and stuff But I don't have a lot of gadgets and my thought too would be like do you want to make it hard Or to like your your barball road dusty where I was just watching when you're videos earlier today I mean would you want to make it harder to hold the bar so that you could row that much? You know what I mean, would you go over the way you just now the exact what I was gonna say which is If bodybuilding is the goal I want to make sure that like I use straps Yeah, you straps for rows. I mean if I will you straps for anything if I think it'll help me get the target muscle Not because I can't hold the dumbbell but if it'll make sure that I can give the delt or whatever it is a little more focused Because my hands grip doesn't go out of the way It's not a problem and I've had people come back go yeah, but what about your forums and like They're fine Right right They're big like I've never trained them directly. It's never been an issue, you know, so I think that that's one of those things where to me You're getting in the way now. It's it's I feel the same way I correct people all the time. I should say correct in my opinion correct where I'm like why are you rowing without straps? Well, my grip strength to be up. Are you training your forums your back? My back well then your decision is getting in the way of your back growth It is right yeah, you know if your plane is on the grid it yeah Yeah, no, I had it I had a good question here. Yeah, it was what are Can you guys name some over or underrated protein sources? Harviken I never use pork in diets, but you can get pretty lean pork can't you pork tenderloin We very lean if you feel like to I I think that Well, I mean the way I grew up in the way I grew as a kid. I think I think dairy is very villainized now I mean milk protein is absolutely fantastic for bioavailability, you know milk protein is very very high quality I think like a sugar-free low-fat Greek yogurt is incredible protein quality Yeah, it's never been heated. It's not exposed to heated all there's no denetrain. It's really good quality protein some Greek yogurt with some you know throw some some fruit berries because throw oatmeal you could throw All the life yeah, you can you can use Greek protein. I've I've had people get shredded using Greek yogurt in their diets like it's just sort of you know I get it if you have some sort of issue, but there's some people that think they have to get rid of every little Grammiderian I've had I've had females keep Greek yogurt in their diet all the way up to the show Yeah, let's say no problem at all they find so You know it just depends on whether it becomes like where they're too hungry because it's kind of a liquid, you know So like yeah, you're Greek yogurt meal and it kind of like you're pretty hungry still So maybe during the last part of the prep it's not the best but I mean I used to eat an entire tub of Greek yogurt every day I would put like fruit and peanut butter and a couple scoops away isolate and it just stir it up like a great Band of just nutrient dense growth and I just Plow that whole thing watching a movie it'd be like 130 140 grams of protein eaten the whole tub with weigh in it and I just eat the whole thing I remember taking an entire tub of Greek yogurt with some weigh in it to the movie theater Right, you have whole thing watching a movie So I think that's underrated. I mean I drank a gallon of milk a day as a kid and I did that when I was Bodybuilding because I got into that I don't know if you you were around for that run on the boards But I kind of did the the deep dive into raw milk Oh, yeah, and I started going to down I lived in Scots about down and go with there was like There were some farmers down there. I'd go buy it from them and and Because not even gonna get into it on the show because it'll start a shit storm, but basically I was like oh, okay the bad the bad part of milk is all the things we do to make it last longer Okay fine, so I went and did the raw milk thing and I will say it was an easy way to Pound calories on to On the same stuff like instead of having water with my shake. I'll use this calories and it also tastes an awesome so that was not hurt in my feelings No, I I one of my favorite things about Sam Sulek Is that he's doing stuff that we seem to have on mass abandoned For no reasons like I get it some people have issues with lactose Don't that digest well. I some people drink dairy and they feel like they get all mucusy and I get all that the reasons why some people don't like dairy But man, I was fine as a young bodybuilder like Sam I mean, it was giant bulls of cereal dumping You know half a liter of milk on it and then look at the you know look at the gains. It's like It's I don't know we've abandoned a lot of foods that for some people are completely fine Yep, and there's no need for them to be abandoned for a lot of these guys You know if you tolerate stuff fine like you digest it well you can strong kid like that you can drink milk all day So I remember you know we need need food real bad so we go to the grocery store and buy like a liter of skim milk and And you just you know an apple and just chuck it as a snack like you know It was kick the calories and you know So Wait, okay, what's in the box All right, I also want to say shout out to my friend iron asylum Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm sure a bunch of shirts this thing is like the coolest throwback I love it. It's very cool. Yeah, very much Mike and we got stack also Shout out to Justin It guy who listen to our shows. I don't want to mention his last name because he might not want me to but he He had commented he messaged the The the the pop-up store their their system to say that he had an issue with his shirt He said it was too tight. He got the loose fit There's so I have the two options. There's like the more fitted version and then there's the loose Irfit and the loose refit is still gonna be tight through the arms and chest But he bought the XL and he said it was too small so I was gonna mess it gym and I was like hey man Can I just extend can I just you know buy you a shirt a bigger size and He was like no actually it's good and then he bought three more So shout out to him. He bought a bunch of shirts for a month and I want to see pictures too. So so let me send you a shirt to that I'm very excited seeing people posting with the shirts on I just I can't believe people are buying shirts for our podcast It's just awesome. It is and the box. Okay, so I just like almost texted you guys last night This might be a before Dusty's time Ron will know this my mom Met text me the other day and she said Scott Do you still have are these at the house still? Do you have your garbage pale kids Yes, I don't know if I can do it. Hey, oh, they are there. Yes, so she was like did you know that those are worth money now And I don't think they're really gonna work that much. We went on eBay I do have this is dollars right there. One of the best cards right here. This is A1 This is the nasty Nick card and guys if this is the last podcast you see This is last podcast. You see it's because this thing is worth 17 thousand dollars and I am gonna retire on that and move to a rouba 17 grand You missed sad on Costa Rica. Yeah, I Looked in here. There was a run. I can't find it right now it and it was like a But the right right on Yes, right right on this perfect here it is here. It's it's wrapping Ron wrapping Ron Oh yeah, I didn't find a dusty Obviously, oh, there we go Oh Wrap and run so he he looks more like a presidential candidate than a rap Yeah, like like yeah Ronald Reagan that makes it in time. You know what I mean That makes it is the Ronald Reagan look so but yeah, I love you guys I've got some good ones in here and you know, I did my deal. I saved them. I might bought these things as a kid Dirty dusty no, I there was no I couldn't find it dusty. I do have this one too is one of the Adam bomb is the big one. This is blasted Billy the other name for him. Oh and this one could be a bomb This one could be where so many though guys so let's see have uh do you have Mona the milk? Oh, I know just Means up I like that name that should have been one. I don't know probably was one three big sex like this guy. Yeah, like car name was Moana You like that I like you know I know it I can literally it was a text you guys to see if you remember these do you remember these did you guys have these in Canada around? Well, yeah, but I I wasn't into cards at all. I was you know I wasn't far my either. Oh, okay. I wasn't like a card collector baseball and all that But we got into these and I don't even know why I got him because I didn't have money So like maybe my mom bought him for me when we went to the grocery store or something the only card collecting I ever did was there is one phase when I was like Like 12 or 13 where I was collecting WWE F cards WWE F did like a superstar series and they had all these cards coming out and I had some of like the rare ones, you know The vintage Hogan one and stuff, but I don't think they ever became worth any real money and no There's that card card Fanatics thing that happened in the 90s, you know, oh, yeah, but yeah, this my collection I want to share it with you guys and I I gave me the box he was like here you can put like little momentos in it and for whatever reason I just put all the cards in it and never put anything else in it and it went on the shelf and They're still here today. I had a box I just like got a different stuff in it though. Yeah, yeah, yeah rolling papers grinder right Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, that looks a same Awesome As soon as you showed it to me, I was like that's a hippie box That's A rage clip been with a feather on it like I own those old school hippies at the feather roaches. Oh, yeah, yeah Great without the same okay, that's exactly a friend of mine gave me a pen the other day Yeah, it actually clicks and writes But you take the back off of it and you can put a vape cartridge in it It's It's so funny he's like I can't vote for the quality, but they work and they write Like you think I need like a stealth pan. I mean Like I can't go to the mall without my pen like Jesus like I don't know these people think the judgment on Ron is pretty hot Actually people Leave it out. Oh, so how in your weed with you at 24 seven Jesus You know That's Ronnie leaves the house like I got my keys. I got my wall. Oh, we'd got to grab that Oh, yeah, I'm gonna start You know I know Okay, what else we got we got? Yeah, is that that's it? We're on to the next man Ron in the next you just we're just gonna do them like that one we got some good feedback on the What do you call it the reaction videos people are enjoying those oh? I'm loving the reaction videos and I'm loving the reaction to the reaction videos Yeah, you know, yeah, yeah reaction squared. It's awesome That Tom have a land one was fun, you know, despite us having some of our facts just completely made up That's fine. I put an entertainment idiot. No, I hope Tom doesn't mind and What else what else what? I'm gonna be doing on it. We did the flex wheeler Chris Kormier back Yeah, that was I was so inspired by that too watching that work out like I was watching those muscles contract I was like man, I want to train back after Yeah, I would be sitting bars. Yeah, go to some T bars. Okay. Well, hey, if if all we get out of this is that we feel better about our work Coats that's enough. That's it. Yeah, that's enough. Okay, remember everybody I am mutant calm go to I am mutant calm get your all in get your iso surge and everyone should get on the gear Dusty 20 big Ron 20 user code save 20% remember the think big patreon keep a producer home I love that that throwback 80s neon shirt that might give you that's great me too, man I love the color. Yeah, I didn't think I do purple but I like the purple Ironic is silent longview Texas fantastic jam showed it to Mike again for all the shirts. I love this stuff. He sent me Remember everybody like share subscribe comment and Ring the bell. Yeah, ring the damn bell. Okay. Remember everybody. It's just body building

I stopped at the gift shop on the way out. I grabbed a bunch of like Danishes and brownies. That's like hospital brownies. Oh, it's so great. So anyway, so I get in the back of a cab. Still we're in no shirt and I have no shoes. This is no shoes. No shoes. No shoes, no shirt, just hospital pants. It my big goods. Hell no guy, take me to this hotel whenever I go to the hotel. I eat all the brownies. I get there. I get out of the car and I'm walking through the lobby to get to the elevator to go back to the hotel. No shirt. No shirt on, no shoes. All the competitors are there because it's Friday. Look at this. I got one here for you. I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to look at mine. I actually had two people last this. What's the dumbest thing you ever did regarding contest prep and diet? Oh, he's like such a list. There is a list. I told an insulin story last week on our podcast. But oh, man, sometimes I don't know how much I should say and how much I shouldn't. Pre-the question again. Sorry, my life. What's the dumb? What's the dumbest thing you ever did regarding contest prep, dieting, et cetera? Well, insulin was probably my biggest downfall. I am at 2005. I'll tell the story, even though it's horrible, I shouldn't tell the story, but I'm going to tell the story anyway. Just so people could not do what I did. 2005, getting ready for the Canadian Nationals. I was at the show where I flew out to Saskatchewan. I think it was Saskatchewan? No, that was 06. That was Montreal. That was Montreal. That was 105. 2005 was a Montreal. And I was supposed to, I'm not going to name the coach. Or anything, but I was supposed to take, we're insulin loading for my car load. So I was supposed to take X amount of insulin and X amount of GH and we're going to do that leading up the show, which is not. I hate insulin. I really, really hate insulin. I don't use it. I've used it a couple times in my career and it's always combat experience. So I'm like, OK, that's fine. If you think we should car load for the show this way, I'm in. I had done it once before and it worked out well. So I was like, all right. So I loaded, I forget exactly what happened, but I had loaded 80 units of insulin in an insulin syringe, right? But I had also loaded 8 units of GH in an insulin syringe. So both are both are 8, right? It was an as name. And I put 1 in 1 pack in 1 in the other side of the same pack. Oh, God. Now, when it came time to do my, uh, I was supposed to do the 8 units of GH before bed on the Thursday night. I ended doing the 80 units of insulin and then went to sleep. You still alive. There's no one's wondering. That's good. Yeah. So I woke up. I went to bed at like midnight. I think. I woke up at like 4 a.m. I felt dizzy. I felt like, I feel weird. I'm like, you really take a piss. So I got up to take a piss, kind of stumbled to the bathroom. I thought I must have just been sleeping really hard. So I didn't think anything of it. Stumble to the bathroom took a piss. But back to bed, I woke up to the best looking paramedics I've ever seen in my life, because everybody Montreal is good looking. Picking me. Actually remember that detail, but it's so reason. They picked me up and put me on a stretcher and wheeled me out to a f***ing, and then I got like a hazy point. And then I remember being in ambulance. And then I remember waking up in the hospital. So it's all I remember after the 4 a.m. piss is being picked up and put on a stretcher. Being an ambulance, being in hospital. And they're like, they gave the sheet. So at the time, I don't know why maybe our phones were in his good back then. And I had to print out of what I was supposed to. I had to print out of what I was supposed to be doing. And my ex girlfriend at the time gave the print out to the doctor. And the doctor was like, he did this. And she's like, no, that's what he was supposed to do. He did this. And he's like, holy f***ing. And he put me on a dextrose drip. And I woke up and I'm laying in the hospital bed in the emergency, hooked up to dextrose. And they're like, this is what happened, blah, blah, and I'm like. And then I started. So she figured out what happened. Well, actually, actually, she called Paul and Paul was like, put some cookies in his mouth. Kill him with cookie. Does it work? How the f*** is that work? So right, but she figured out that you mixed up the shots is what I mean. No, she just called the ambulance. Okay, okay. So because I would know that you needed it where you just. I was in a, she said I wouldn't wake up. And I was in a pool of my own sweat. Because when you're high, the high poke, like, see me. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I had been sweating all night. Literally, like the bed was soaked. So, and she couldn't wake me up. So she called the ambulance. And I was like, got me the hospital. So I wake up in the hospital and they're like, what happened? And I started playing everything. And I'm like, oh my God, I can took 80 units. It's like an insulin. Oh, the, they're like, well, you're an idiot. And you're lucky you're not dead. And this is, can insane. Even this paper that I'm holding in my hand is insane, which it wasn't now that it looked back. It's not that abnormal. Um, but to a doctor obviously is insane. Yeah. And so they're like, you have to stay here. We're going to took you up to, and then at that point, I feel fine. Now I've woken up. I'm on the post like the hypoglycemia's worn off. Yeah. And I'm like, I got a, it's Friday now. The show is tomorrow. Yeah. So I got to go. I say to, I say to my ex. I'm like, I got to get out of here. I got to show tomorrow. And they're, she's like, they're not going to let you leave. You shouldn't leave. And I'm like, oh, I got to take a piss. I didn't have to take a piss. I just wanted to see what I looked like. So I take my little thing and I'm wheeling myself to the bathroom. And I get to the bathroom and I'm insured. Like every, I can hear a seat of the voice. You're going to be shredded. You're going to be healed. No, no, dude. Listen, every ounce of it. Water on my body was gone. Like I was, and this is not to say you guys should do this. Don't do this anyway. What the heck? Well, I should just put it all out. Right. I'm not giving you a good prescription. I'm lucky I didn't die. But because I had sweats so much, I was just, right? So I'm like, in my mind, I'm like, okay, I feel good. I look great. I got to get out of here. I go back to the bed. I go, I asked the doctor. He comes back. I go, is there anything keeping me here? He goes, no, but we don't feel like you should leave until your dexter, like the dexter strip is done. You need to get the sugar in your body. But I'm like, but I feel great. And he goes, I don't think you should leave. I go, you can't make me stay, right? Because no, I go, okay, I'm out of here. He goes, you got to sign the waiver saying you're leaving. I'm like, okay, cool. So I sign the waiver. I can bounce. And all I have on is a pair of hospital pants and no shirt. And I call my coach and I'm like, this is what happened. What should I do? He's like, start eating brownies. I'm like, okay, my gosh. I'm sorry, sorry. I stopped at the gift shop on the way out. I grabbed a bunch of like Danishes and brownies. I'm like hospital brownies. Oh, it's so great. So anyway, so I get in the back of a cab. Still we're in no shirt. And I have no shoes. Just no shoes. No shoes. No shoes. No shoes. No shirt. Just hospital pants. It my baked goods. Finally the juice bag. We're on a one. Walk in the right. I just, I should tell the guy, take me to this hotel. Whatever, go to the hotel. Are you all the brownies? I get there. I get out of the car and I'm walking through the lobby to get to the elevator to go back to the hotel. No shirt on. No shoes. All the competitors are there because it's Friday. You can get in, guys. Yes, yes, yes, Ron, Ron, you know this. Guess who wrote a article about me being an ass. Gary Bartlett. Oh, it's just going to say Gary. Gary Bartlett writes a article in muscle magazine about how big an asshole I am and how arrogant I am. I walked through the hotel and no shirt and that blah, blah, blah. And I'm like, you mother f***er. I was almost dead. I was almost dead like a man. Oh, man. So I get this huge reputation for being this cocky f***. Nobody knows the story. But I'm, oh, man. And the legend was born. So then we carb loaded some more and everything. I woke up the next day, got on stage, one my class. Yeah. I got crushed it. I looked amazing. My body soaked up all that carbs. I was like, I actually spilled over a little bit. That's probably why I get my pro card. But yeah, I won the super heavily class that year. And yeah, that's all. So all for a short, don't use insulin. It's horrible. And sometimes you can't wait to look at it. Sometimes you die. Yeah, that's probably the worst biggest mistake I ever made in my career. Because it was literally like literally I'm surprised I didn't die. Like you can't take 80 units of insulin, just go to sleep. You can't. It's the right amount of time. I mean, holy. I'm seeing about just the math of when I'm taking it. When I feel it. When I first started taking, I still own the stores. And it would hit me in my hand to start going. Yep. And I'm looking into customer like, I hope he goes soon because if not, I'm about to slam a carb force right in front of him. That's right. Yeah. And that's what you know, you know that feeling. Even when you get to that point, you almost start eating like a homeless person. Yeah. You just want to, you're so hungry and you just want the feeling to go away. You just start smashing anything and everything. You overconciting greatly. And that's, I think that's what I did for the show as far as why I wasn't 100% sharp the next day because I went too far. But you know how it is in your carb loading. Somebody says you're going to have a brownie. You end up having five brownies. Yeah. So yeah. That's wasn't a good day, but ended up being okay, I guess.

So the IGF1 is like one of the main main molecules that's involved with cancer and just unbridled growth of cells when that's elevated, especially beyond physiological levels to what you're going to try to do when you use the vaginous IGF1. Hey, what's up guys, on this episode of The Muscle Minds, and I started out talking about growth hormone and its relationship to IGF, plus a bunch more amazing GH factoids. After that we talk about training through injuries, then we'll hit training have any health benefits over other forms of training, say, volume training. And we have a listener with low hemaglopen, yet he's on a gram of tests. So we try to tackle that one and a bunch more guys, we're going to do that right now here on Muscle Minds. And we're going to do a lot of things. And we're going to do a lot of things. And we're going to do a lot of things. And we're going to do a lot of things. What's up guys, welcome back to Muscle Minds. I've got my daily, of course I'm here with Dr. Scott Stevenson. I'll be programming as brought to you by Trinutrition.com. And if you are watching this on YouTube, do us a favor, hit the like button, hit the subscribe button. We have several podcasts coming out each week. We haven't had a muscle mind in a little while. Well hey listen, what do you have for us today? I know that we did get a couple questions that are popping up in the feed. But I see you've got some stuff here too. I've got some couple figures and a Scott Stevenson original figure. I'll go to the questions. Well we have one from David and he's asking about what is it related to cancer risk using IGF. Could it be lessened by using it alongside a growth hormone? And so that there's converted IGF BP3 in the system. I heard, okay, this is what I've heard Dr. Serrano say. He said that there, and I've heard John Meadows say it as well repeating Dr. Serrano. And then I heard Rhonda Patrick say something kind of similar that the IGF on its own may be able to create cancer. That's Rhonda Patrick's thought is that IGF on its own may create cancer and otherwise healthy person over long term abuse basically used by athletes. Now what Serrano would said was that by using exogenous growth hormone, there's a series of checks and balances that occur so that the IGF isn't completely unfettered. That by combining, so if you were to use IGF to combine that with growth hormone so that you do have like some of those checks and balances in place. So what I think Rhonda and Dr. Serrano meant by the regarding IGF on being unfettered is that you're prompting an endogenous IGF one release. So this is a somatomedin hypothesis growth hormone stimulates IGF one release from the liver also with some local other tissues like bone and muscle. Some degree not gigantic amount. There's some of that going on and you've initiated that and that's a hormonal cascade with the feedback loop built into it. So that would that will then inhibit like I don't know exactly the mechanisms I can't point to what's going on in liver cells for instance, but that increase in IGF one within feedback to liver and keep further elevations of IGF one in check. Okay, feathered. Those are great words. That's awesome. They didn't use it. That was both. That's the mechanism. I like it too. So yeah, but that's that's totally the right right deal and that's that's what feedback inhibition is all about is to try to check some balances on any of the aspects of the hormonal cascade or the hormonal access getting out of check. So that's that's how that would work. But if you've got an exogenous source of IGF one coming in that's further amplifying IGF one elevation then that doesn't that doesn't apply anymore because you're basically you're you're bringing IGF one in it's kind of like using a growth hormone secretive dog versus using the oxygen's growth. You're going to have down regulation of sensitivity to the secretive dog. You know, GHRP or what have you whatever combination injectables with the MK67 you're using an eventually that will that will just some degree balance out the amount of growth hormone release you get. In this case when you use growth hormone to get IGF one elevation spacing the same kind of thing, but if you've got IGF one coming in. This here's an analogy. This will probably be like to make it all come together. So imagine if it would be like saying. I'm using a growth hormone the peptides and and I want to to elevate growth hormone will will start will using growth hormone. The peptides to elevate growth hormone offset the effects adverse effects of using injectable growth hormone. Like like no, you put in 10 I used 10 I used goes in put in 20 I used 30 I used you could you know you could type of that if you put in 1000 I use a growth hormone. There's no there's no feedback it's just coming in it's there. Let me broken down and take in a way in the ways it will be so no but what you would possibly do by adding growth hormone on top of IGF one is compound your cancer risk from those cancers that are growth hormone sensitive or affected by growth hormone levels. So I mean IGF one is like there's numerous cancers whereby the cancer cells that become their cancer cells are immortal that's the problem. So normally cells will go into my tozes you get two from one and more more but some of them die. And for the cell regulates itself in the tissue so the tissue doesn't just grow into a big tumor it maintains the tissue shape and function physiology and form. So that it does what it's supposed to do you don't so that you have a lip not a big you know lip tissue on your lip or the tissues that make up your lip not a big tumor. Yeah, but if those cells become cancerous. One of the ways that back and happen is that they start over or one of the things that's involved with that can be over expression of IGF one. So because that just so that just keeps on bringing about growth in those cells at triggering new growth. And my tozes so it's so the IGF one is like one of the main main molecules that's involved with cancer and just unbridled growth of cells when that's elevated. Especially on physiological levels to what you're going to try to do when you use exogenous. So that's like that probably you know I can't that would I would not be surprised if that's involved with you know. 85% or 80 plus with large the vast majority of cancers probably have some IGF one sensitivity. I've looked us up before growth hormone. There are some I can't remember which ones they are but there are some that specifically have been connected to growth hormone. So here's the thing like one of the things that you know we know like if you if you if you this is a Rhonda Patrick thing to you know if you fast. Fasting tends to reduce IGF one. Yeah, it's it's not anabolic it's tadabolic in fasting also increases life expectancy. So there's all sorts of like if you go on and on with this sort of interplay between those things that body builders do to promote growth. And grow and overeat and have lots of IGF one versus what people who limit their caloric intake. Do and what that means in terms of all sorts of health risks and also health parameters and IGF one is is one of the centerpiece molecule that differentiates. The off season push the food gets big at you can inject IGF one type of thing versus what happens IGF one while you're dieting down so. But yeah, I mean the cancer thing like like that such a generic and it's a important question obviously. Is someone as a family history of cancer I would try to go and figure out what cancer. This they're family numbers have had and then and then see if they can get a genetic and I don't know which one will be the best one at this point in time. But you know get a genetic test run through Prometheus or run through a single nucleotide polymorphism checker. That'll look for the specific gene polymorphisms variants that predisposed people to different answers. And you can get your own profile like what you get some idea of your disposition so that way I mean not that it will necessarily be it's not like going to be 100% accurate and actually there's there are papers that have looked at this and I think I was I read a blog somewhere where. It's really quite funny someone went and had their um they're it was just a heritage testing type of genome analysis but it told them just dramatically different things. You know what their genetic heritage was and you can get false positives for single nucleotide polymorphisms on those tests that are geared towards that. You try to get you sort of a health risk inventory and some of the some of the commercially available tests are not very good and I can someone wants they can mess to me off send them a paper who's been two or three years now. But so you can't even trust in those entirely. Yeah, but if you do one of those and you're like okay, I got like you know eight high risk genes for cancers that are IGF one and or growth hormone which could it was also going to evolve IGF one because elevated growth hormone is going to mean elevated IGF one. All of the things being equal. Yeah. Then so you know I probably shouldn't be in the plane or I'll guide you if one. Yeah. Yeah. But that goes up when you over e that goes up when you when you over when you when you you're more you eat. Sure. Really powerful marker of nutritional status. Yeah. People who are starving like burn victims who are really catablogged. I'd just want to go in the tank. So that's like just as an aside people talk about. You know growth hormone means higher more growth hormone means higher IGF one and that's how a lot of people will test their exogenous growth. But when you die it. IGF one goes down. Okay. What do you think happens to growth hormone when you when you die it if you're not injecting it. Well, we just take we had a really related question here says this is from let's see. Answer questions question. Gillard Ron he says doesn't fasting increase GH secretion from his understanding many proponents of fasting claim that it does. It does that's that's it's major metabolic one of its major metabolic roles. During post development after the bones refuse and it's not promoting growth. That's why you don't see you'll see some some sort of strange skeletal abnormality sometimes on people who use lots of growth hormone their feet will get larger and facial changes but no one's getting taller. Right. Some of that's explained by. Well, the amount and the fact that the growth plates are already huge but didn't that really weren't you didn't you say in relationship to not eating wasn't. Let's let's run going. Okay. So after all that's done after the growth and developments done you're fully formed adult sort of speak and growth hormones not directing you know skeletal maturation of your bones. It's there as a fuel selector hormone. It goes up when you exercise it goes up it goes up when you sleep. Especially if you sleep you don't eat very much and it's going up so that it will liberate fatty acids to be used as fuel so that you have glucose for your brain. So when you fast when you don't eat growth hormone goes up when you're a hypercolt growth hormone levels will elevate roughly in relative to the caloric balance that you have. And when there's a lack of carbohydrate you'll have more growth hormone release those two things are interrelated so. You don't get the growth hormone elevation if you have carbs even protein because insulin release will antagonize the growth hormone but. So yeah that's what growth hormones really doing so that's the that's the thing is that. It's just me is causing like policies liberating free fatty acids those can be oxidized during exercise and those other conditions I just mentioned so. But I GF one will be low when you're starving to so you die it your idea one goes down and that was the way in the past if people wanted to get a prescription for growth hormone. You just go get your blood test done when you're dieted down and you're starving. I would be really low and it'll be out of range because your diets out of range. So caloricly restricted and it's not because your growth hormone is low your growth hormone will be high. But you don't want you don't want see here's the interesting thing and this is why you know it's that's so cool how the bodies programming for what these. Genes can be doing what what this is not because we're doing when you're growing as a kid. And you have growth hormone to creating causing IGF one secretion systemically. That's because you're growing you're eating you're growing you're you're becoming you know a much larger human you grow at the rate. When you're a kid you know infant in childhood much faster. Then you will unless maybe it's like your first cycle as a bodybuilder that growth rate is just independence. You know it's bad ass. Well that's big sense then that growth hormone will be also directing IGF one because IGF one is very anabolic and it directs growth of tissues. What you want is you're getting to be going from a little Scott to a big Scott. Right. But when you're starving and your already as big as you're going to be you're already an adult that part of your you know growth and development's over with. You're doing the stage of adulthood and thereafter you don't and you grow from on that takes on a role of fuel provision. So it makes sure you have fatty ass is available so that you don't run out of glucose because your brain would for it to have that to somebody. I see. Yeah. So then at that point in time when you're starving you don't want to be turning on IGF one. That's like putting on the breaks while you're pressing on the accelerator. Okay. That's like no that's like those are needed to be you don't want that. So that doesn't happen and you're there and there are mechanisms in place to ensure that now that some adding meat and hypothesis is is is a disconnect now between growth hormones stimulating IGF one. Okay. It's different and so so there there's a specific connection between those two hormones that is dependent upon the growth and development of the organism. Okay. Go figure right. Yeah. So yeah. So that's that's what people don't get when they say well you know I went in I like I bunk growth hormone I injected the 10 I use and I measured two and a half hours later I followed the damn protocol magic f1 sucks. Yeah. And I'm dining for a show dammit and I'm grouchy and I and I want my good growth hormone it's like it doesn't mean you don't have but bad growth hormone just means you had a shitty IGF one release which is reflected over your diet not to not the growth hormone you injected. Really shit. No kidding. Yeah. Okay. I bet this was like because like I see this constantly as something that the people say you can obviously just do a growth hormone test that's a much better way to do it. Yeah. Yeah. And those IGF one test all of the things being equal for someone who's you know kind of perm a bulky or just not you know if they if they standardize the dietary condition and the you know what that your weight is stable. Then that will be reflected on the growth hormone some degree. Yeah. You know it's it's it's here's the thing I don't even know. It's it's very possible because you the growth they're different growth hormone receptors. Okay. That's one reason why some people may or may not be receptive. Yeah. Different is a forms there so. That also. The genes they're also could also the gene for the growth hormone binding protein too so that's part of this whole whole play. But what happens after growth hormone. Um. Bines with receptor. Ah. I got one of those. Yes. Yes. Cool. I was supposed to go there this year. Or last year. Yeah. This year still this year. Yeah. We were supposed to go. What was that podcast was going to have a few. The sort of insights like you know successful insight type of thing. Yeah. What's going to do it. I think you're going to. I was going to talk about podcasting. Right. Right. Yeah. Hopefully it's still happening. Yeah. I have a couple of those now. This is beautiful. I can. I have a couple of those. If you guys haven't heard of it, you should go to Swiss. Scott will have a code. I'm sure when it comes. I'll have a code. They'll be code. It's like early insurance codes. But it's. It's a it's a group of people like Scott. All of the Scott's get together in North America and other places. Yeah. And go to Canada. Mumple brainards. Muscle brainards. Yes. So. But anyway, the growth hormone obviously hormones have different effects depending on the tissues. Okay. Different growth hormone. You see all these. This is just. This we're getting on a growth hormone topic here. But that's interesting. That's good. I like this. Yeah. Yeah. So like, you know, obviously people find when they use black market growth hormone versus farm rate growth. Or even different pharmaceutical corporations are growth hormone. Yeah. So, you know, if you're looking at the relationships or some of that's manufacturing, you could do the whole whole slew of things. That could explain that. But some of it could means then that you may have a different growth hormone molecule. It's a different shape, let's say. Okay. Do the oxidation, methylation, various things that just change the shape of the key going in the lock. He being the growth hormone, the lock being the growth hormone receptor. And when that happens on one tissue, you would get. Um, we get lipolices with this is a fat tissue. If it's if it's skeletal muscle, there's maybe there's something going on there. That's not, there's going to be greatly in a bulk of its bone. It's going to be how they're different, in effect. Obviously. And so what happens after you put the lock and the key in the lock, those postbiding. Um, messenger systems differ depending on the cell. And it's also going to depend on what happens in the cell depends on the growth hormone itself. Some growth hormone works better than others. That maybe how well it binds to the, or how and how well it binds to the receptor. So the analogy that everyone knows about is there are lots of different drugs that all bind to the same receptor. And have the same actions, mostly, but the drugs work differently. Absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah. Those are different. Both binding the battery receptors. Different relative affinity, affinity is just like how well it sticks. Also like when you put that, put that in there, it's like this, it's like this super like wizard's key. Okay. It's not like you turn it, it turn like that, but you put it in and then it takes you in. And then all the tumblers start sliding and the flips it around. And like you're all this incredible molecular binding that goes on that changes the shape of the growth hormone. Receptor on the inside and then it facilitates all the things that happen inside the cell. So depending on what kind of key you have, that's going to impact what happens in those cells. So it may be that you get one growth hormone, this is where I'm going with this one type of growth hormone that just doesn't do much as far as IGF one release. Because the nature of that interaction at the liver, but it may be really, maybe a fine job at promoting lipolysis in the adipose cells in the fat cell. Okay. And so it's not like like another thing someone could do is well, how well does my growth hormone, how well is the work for fat loss. So you go in and you get a baseline level of free fatty acids. Was what you have to probably do and check your 10 I use and then monitor that. So what's the elevation of free fatty acids? Yeah. There's some things you'd have to be in a lab to do to look at oxidation and that kind of stuff. But you get some sort of marker of lipolysis. That would be interesting to see. That's really what you mostly are wanting from growth hormone. Although some people seem like they grow from it, too, which might be IGF one mediated. I like the recovery personally. I feel like I really get better. Connective tissue. It has a new effect, connected tissue. So that's mainly where it's protein synthetic effects come into play. Okay. Not so much in a muscle tissue. Okay. So but that can vary as well. And it person by person. Some people don't get that from growth hormone. Some people do. Yeah. Right. So that would be a hard one to like you can't. There aren't a whole lot of studies that have measured like connected tissue proteins. Since it's as good as you have to. At least the old technology was you had the sample biopsy sample of that. So like take a little sliver from your petellate tendon. Yeah. So you can do it with a radio isotope. Tracer of some sort and see how much. A amino acid is getting incorporated into connected tissue. Again, that you know, this is high in lab shit. But yeah, you're not doing that at a quest. Yeah. You don't exactly know. No, you're lucky to get a nice good attitude and a happy family. That's all I'm hoping for is not to be with the couch. Great. Great. Yeah. So anyway, that's one of the things. So that like you can see like so not only is that IGF1 not necessarily telling you how good the growth hormone is. It's not the IGF1 elevation for people who are using growth hormone for fat loss. Isn't even necessarily specifically reflecting growth hormones effect on the fat cells. Okay. It's showing you it's effect on the liver and IGF1, which is just kind of a moot point if you're dieting down because you're not going to expect an effect. Yeah. Maybe you can check massive amounts. You're just going to you're just it's super physiological. So you're going to override the system. Okay. Not meant to work within those parameters. Those aren't the normal design parameters. You know, to have 10 I use coming in all one time. Right. That's a lot. It's like five times daily output or something like that. So you will get an IGF1 release from that. But it would be it's still going to be in my experience somewhat damped when someone's dieting. So so that's that's the thing. It's you know, it measures growth hormone is better way to sort of evaluate. And then there's also issues with the testing that happens there. So that's you know, it's one growth hormone molecule might not show up so well given a radio amino acid. It tests for growth hormone because what it would have is a binding at a binding protein that binds to some part of the growth hormone. Okay. And it's sent to which that that radio active binding protein, the tracer isotope. Bines tells you, well, how much is bound to growth hormone tells you how much growth hormone is there. Okay. How much growth hormone you had with the elevation was. But that that sometimes the binding is not perfect. So it's not going to be like you're getting every single growth hormone molecule. And that the binding of that of that molecule is for the test may not reflect how well the growth hormone binds to your receptors. Oh, okay. Yeah. So yeah, you so you might have you might have shitty binding with the binding protein the test and shitty binding of your growth hormone receptor or or good on both ends or any combination thereof. So but that's why you have to be consistent like when people change labs that could be a huge thing for like stuff like the free free anagents like there's two kind of tests done for free testosterone. And they will show like a five or eight like it's like a large it's like a fivefold difference plus terms of the percent free or the values. But it depends on which test they do. And so that right right that that there tells you that the test is just giving you some normative numbers based on this test. It's kind of like. And then the time we go and we count the cows in that field we're going to use this we're Bob's going to do it and Bob lost and I in the war. And his other eye he's a little near sighted on so he can get a good call. You know like if we're if it's truly a hundred and the between like 80 and 120. Yeah, or Bob always sense to be a little low so like as long as we have Bob do it every time. If we're we're getting about 80% of the actual value. But then then if you go and you get you know Bob's great grandfather Bill who's been blind for 20 years. He's going to have like he's always going to be low because he can't hear either so he thinks there's 20 cow's and there's a hundred. Yeah. I'm really just a species scenario which is the idea. So neither of those numbers are particularly accurate. Okay. But what's important is the change in the values or that you always go with Bob or Bob's great great grandfather. Yeah, I'm going to go and start over we're just going to hire someone new but. Well, I don't even know like in the case of the like free testosterone which numbers the accurate one because we don't have an eagle eye GPS, you know, that counts. Or someone with a clicker that actually tells us the exact number. Okay. There's maybe lab techniques that I'm unaware of that were that are known or thought to be more accurate. But the fact that both of those are used and still used you know somewhat regularity like so what is it like there's all sorts of potential. There's all sorts of potential ways in which air can creep into those measurements. So we don't know what the real value is. There's we're just presuming but that's a lose like a fivefold difference off to go and look I can close some of that information to for people. But it can be used people because they're like oh shit, you know I tried more on or something like that to free up more tests. And it went the other way it's like what the hell this is bullshit. It's like well what did you well I had to go I do I get tested it you know quest to set a lab core and it's like well. How do they test or freed testosterone. They have no idea. I can go check into it. I bet they use this test versus this test. So you actually only went down by 50% whereas the test is typically much more than that low lower much lower than that. So maybe you didn't get increased but I wouldn't count it because you because you asked Bob and you asked the great great grandfathers. Yeah. Who knows. So. Yeah. Anyway, so. I think that's enough. Grow a farm on idea. Yeah. I really like it. Hey, what's going on guys. Thanks for watching another podcast here. I think Big Bodybuilding Media. And thank you to our great sponsor True Nutrition.com for making this all possible. True Nutrition.com is owned by Dante Trudeau the creator of DC training. You wanted to create a supplement company that offered high quality third party test and supplements at a fair price. High quality protein powders just about every type you could think of. Huge variety of flavors plus health and performance supplements. Check them out True Nutrition.com and hey, if you use our code advice is directly support our podcasting. Thanks guys. Let's get back to the program. Can I ask you this question here? This is from Michael. And it just be curious to hear what your input is on it. It says just a simple question of what are some good exercises when you have. A back slash spine injury. I would go to my keyboard and Google. Kyropractor injury special bath injury special. I would find it doctor and figure out what's going on. Get it. And honestly, Kyropractor go to your deep general practitioner. Fear was going on with your back. Okay. So is the question pop up? I want to make sure I cover all the. Yeah, that was the whole question. Okay. So, so you just wanted to exercise as when he has a back pain. I mean, yeah, I guess that would make the most sense. Figure out exactly what's going on with the injury first. Yeah, because there are so many things. It could be it could be facet joint pain, which is local. You know, it could be a bold disc and the spasm around the disc and you're not getting any radiating. Because you're not imping you can nerve yet. Yeah. It could be a muscle spasm. You know, it could be so many different. It could be even for some referred pain. We've got to injury somewhere else. And it just feels you have pain in another location. Yeah. That happens a lot of times. You know, there's some known. Association between pain in one place and actual injury or something going on in another place. Yeah. But yeah, you got to figure out what it is. First of all. You know what? I've found for myself and then I've seen a lot of people who. I can almost call it now on certain people that so I hurt my back, you know, years ago. And then I continued to re-injure it for a long, long time. And I got MRIs. Thankfully, there was nothing wrong with the discs. You know, everything structurally was was okay. And I found that for me, it was a muscular imbalance. And you know, I probably have talked about it with you before when I started the glute training. My whole thought was aesthetics. I was like, oh, yeah, you know, I don't have good glutes. They just never really like turned on well, you know, some people are like, you know, remember when we were and you've heard other people say this, when we did the live advice as radio event at the Arnold two years ago. And Josh Wade was there. And Josh was like, I just squat in my glute's grow. He was like, I just suggest squatting. It's like, but I did that obviously for years. And I still had, you know, like white guy butt syndrome. Directly training my glutes and then talking with people and then experimenting. I realized that my low back was compensating for glutes not turning on. So I'd bend over to do a T bar row. And my low back would hold his damn tight as it could. And let me tell you, too, my, like, my directors were thick. And I think they were so thick because they were compensating for glutes that were working. But eventually in that bent over position with three and half plates, there's going to be a minute that they a moment that they strain. And then I write out for three weeks, you know, waiting for my back to recover. Strengthening my glutes was a huge factor. And now I'm seeing another people that tell me they have low back pain and that clients are blind to mine. And then I look at their physique. And I'm like, yeah, and you have no glutes either. And sometimes these mysterious low back pains can be fixed in cases like that, you know. Yeah. And what you're talking about the other etiology of having atrophy glutes can also come about too in that the person has low back pain. And then they stop doing things. Yeah, bend over and engage the glutes and the glutes get small. Yeah. So they're basically favoring, you know, the back injury. And you do this stuff inadvertently all the time. Yeah. You just get used to not spending over in certain ways and not squatting down. And eventually you get actually in the muscle. It can happen pretty rapidly sometimes. Yeah. Just because you just don't like those that day to day, you know, let's say you bend over like 150 times during a day. You know, just picking up various things with glutes get activated or walking. But then that goes from 150 nothing. Right. And then you, and then the whole, then you go down that a dash of the spiral where, you know, then you stop moving less because your glutes get weaker. You stop engaging them less. Yeah. Go back takes over more and then you know, with another injury. Yes. But, but what did the, did you ever figure out if there is any mechanical injury to your low back? Mechanical. What do you mean by mechanical? Like, like a disc. No. Yeah. No. I had MRIs. I had a doctor's degree for the pain. Yeah. No. I never had, I couldn't find a reason. Now I haven't, I haven't had MRI in years. So who knows? I may have done something since the last MRI. But that said strengthening the glutes. I'm able to handle way more than I was before. And I don't have those phantom moments where the back just goes out on me, you know. Yeah. You're able to engage the muskature more correctly, so to speak, from a biomedical standpoint, across the posterior chain. Yes. Exactly. Let me sense. Yeah. Like, like, you've got all these, these pieces of the posterior chain puzzle. And you've got a weak link in the glutes. So that means the other links have to take up the slack, so to speak. Yeah. There you go. That's where you're going to focus injury risk. Even if it's just like minor tweaks, like nothing like that's going to show up with MRI or nothing, well, we'll be around. You go on a month later and they do like a straight leg test or something like that, you know, on you and nothing's going to show up because you're fine. You just tweak some things. Maybe you must just muscular strains because you're putting all that so much there. A lot of people have really, really, really tight hamstrings. Yes. Yes. You know. And that, the hamstring, that in that case, it disallows them. It pulls them into posterior pelvic tilt. Okay. So if you think of your pelvis as being kind of triangle like this, the hamstrings being back here, it pulls everything back. Well, that will tend to bow your low back. Okay. As opposed to having that nice anatomical lumbar arch that you have when you're just standing there. Uh-huh. There's some lumbar curvature that's just the normal lumbar curvature, which is somewhere where you want to be most of the time because that's where the discs and the vertebrae are stacked up on one another. The best for overall cushioning of the spine. Yeah. And if your hamstrings are tight, basically, that pushes you into that position that makes you cringe when someone's doing a deadlift or a spot. And the back starts to bow the wrong. It's like, ah, mother fucker. That's where you can bow a disc, blow a disc, that post your wall of the discs is weaker than the anterior. And it also doesn't have the ligament to support there. So there's some mechanical reasons why our spine's, why we tend to blow discs in the way we do it press on our vertebrae. Partly, you just can't have all that support structure back there because that's where the nerves exit come back in. So you've got to have some openings and the fact that you have openings is kind of like, if you're going to bring in like the satellite table from the roof, you've got to make a hole in the roof to get it through. Yeah. You know, that's where you're going to tend to get water coming through the roof. Oh, yeah. Other things being equal. So that's where you're going to get an injury just because that's just part of the anatomical zone plus, plus evolutionarily, we've not only been bipedal for a relatively short period of time, we're not really built to be walking upright entirely. Okay. We're pretty good at it. And we were doing all right, but like putting, you know, 500 pounds on our backs. That's, that's not what, you know, we've been doing for Eons, you know, because being upright is just a relatively new, I mean, look at the other primates. They can walk upright, but they're not that far from us genetically speaking or even they branched that long ago evolutionarily, but they're not walking upright. Yeah. You know, they're dragging stuff, mounting it, but I'm not doing, they're not squatting like we try to. Yeah. So, but yeah, but definitely back to this question, he just go get it checked. See, we can figure out what's going on there. So, you don't try to do some rehab or something that exacerbates it, makes it worse. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I mean, sometimes it's like, it's a crazy thing. I'll just, like, this is sort of a little bit of mini rant and an offshoot, but some people, they'll say like, you know, what do you guys do for elbow tendonitis? It's like, okay, go to a doctor. And why, why would I say that? Because if someone says they have tendonitis in their elbow, that's like you're saying you have a headache in your foot. Could your elbows are joint? Okay. You would have elbow arthritis. Okay. Not tendonitis. Yes. Means you have information of one of the tendons in the area of the elbow. Right. It could be tendon cellboe or golfer's elbow or tri-sept tendonitis or some other things as well. But when you say elbow tendonitis, like literally that shows that you're not, you don't have like a basic. And this isn't like, not piston on anybody, but it, because everyone says it that way. Yeah. It's like, it's the common way to say it. But it's like, it tells you nothing because that could little be golfers, like a those things I just mentioned. All of which could be treated generically with, you know, anti-inflammatories, or just throw something, you know, throw like quannalongol on it, which I'll touch on just a second. I came up on another on board just recently. And just try to like, you know, get through it and that happened that would work. But if it's a chronic thing that keeps on coming back and you found a good fix for yours, like you're, you know, you've engineered your way out of out of that injury risk just by being very, very cognizant of all the things that we're going on. And so that's brilliant. But if you're not really sure, like you can't get a handle on it, try to throw what it is because there's something to back as so many different things. So, you know, if you try, like, I've been, I'm taking glucosamine and aspirin, you know, I'm wrapping it all this kind of stuff and I still have that elbow tendonitis. It's like, like, you're not even like, like, saying like, it's right here in the tip of my elbow, you know, or, you know, there's no, there's no specificity in understanding of what's going on. So you're not going to be able to treat with any specificity. Yeah. You know, it's like, my car won't start. It's like, okay, well, throw some gas in there, throw some on there. It started, it did you're good to go. You know, throw one started all those things like a canadian after you would have a can. Yeah. Because they'll diagnose what's going on. So someone was asking someone asked, and I, and I tried to be as nice as I could with this, because I just wanted to help this person. So he, the question was, can someone point me in the right direction of the, the best, most reliable brands of clung along oil. Yeah. And you know, clung along oil that I've, you know, it's in my book. It's a topical linimate. The advice I was given was look for the box that looks like it's just Chinese writing. It's probably going to be a good one. Right. Well, here's pretty much, but here's the thing. It's there's only one brand. There's only one manufacturer as far as I know. Oh, okay. Yeah. That's, that's all there is. There's Prince of Peace makes it. And you'll see like some variations in like small ones in the, in the box. And at one point, sometimes they can't have, I'm blanking on one of the ingredients can't be in there because it's toxic. But other than that, like it's like, it's like, you know, where, what will be the best best, make if I wanted to get a four F 150, which, where should I, you know, where should I, you know, what make vehicle should I get? It's like there's only one forward, like it's the four F 150. There's no, no, not costs, which should be a possibility. And you're right, you Google it and it comes up all sorts of places. And it is in a four language, so that makes you like, I don't know which ones which, so maybe they're, maybe they're fake. It was only just one. Okay. But there's only only one brand with the thing with quantum long oil is like, that's, it's, it's a, it's a, it's a liquid banded. Some degree. And I say banded in that it has anti-inflammatory processes that can help you get past some information that's been brought about from a chronic over use injury. But that's only a smart idea in my mind, if you're also treating the underlying root of the issue. Absolutely. That's the branch, you know. That goes with, with everything, right? I mean, when I hit, looked into stem cell therapy, they're saying that the big thing is is, they want you to, Adam Lamb was telling me, they want you to take like three months off of training basically. And then from there, getting back into it really easy. And then everything I read was, so if you had an instability and a given joint, you know, if the structure wasn't working properly, and then you fix the connective tissue, if the structure still isn't working properly, you're just going to do the same thing and make it worse again, you know. Yeah, I think with stem cells, do you have to give them some time to set up shop and replace the tissue? Yeah, yeah. But you keep grinding it back down, you know, if you had an issue, just like if you were to use the oil on a low back or say a knee pain, there was days on sure all of us are probably guilty of this, where if your knees hurt, you just wrapped them tighter. That was can Hill used to say that was one of his, yeah, I thought he said that recently actually, but yeah, that's what I've done, you know, I don't have any knee problems now, but I never wrap my knees either. And yeah, so there's a lot of things there, so like you, that's the matter, the stem cells is a matter of understanding how the procedure works. It's like, it's like, you know, you plan to seed and you can't just expect for the plant to have grown the next day. It's like planning the seed is going to give you the plant three months from now from which you can harvest the tomatoes or whatever. So putting the stem cells in, but it's only going to happen if you stay off the ground, if you go on then you're stopping on the ground all the time. You're stopping on the seedling when it's trying to come up. You're never going to let it become what you what you've got the intention is. So that's that's knowing the underlying strategies for using and like, you know, wrapping the knees is just saying, I fuck it. I don't care why it hurts. I'm going to make it not hurt because I'm going to keep doing what I've been doing. Sometimes you, you know, you blast those like been prep sometimes you just have to like just fucking go like there's a trade off. You know, obviously this is the healthiest thing to be doing all the things I'm doing to try to look the way I'm going to I want to look right so you just keep on. But like with the quantum oil, there's a specific thing also in that it contains winter green is probably the source methyl solicilate with it which is methyl salicylic acid, which is just like a seedle salicylic acid, which is aspirin, which is a non-stroidal anti-inflammatory, which blocks the cycle oxygenase enzyme and blunts inflammation. Okay. So when you blunt inflammation, inflammation is part of directing the turnover over the tissue that you want when tissue gets broken down and then comes back stronger. Okay. So you can actually and this has been demonstrated like in some of the muscle damage studies with n-says and like there's one ticker study with a rabbit for instance where they they damage the muscle and they treated with n-says. And they blunted the damage that was done in the loss of force that was done caused by that that damaging injury protocol. But then when they looked at the tensile strength of the muscle months later it was reduced. Okay. Yeah. Because you're you're blunting the inflammatory, so it's much you're also blunting the remodeling. So if you've got tendon let's say whichever one it might be around your elbow your near what have you. And it's starting to get inflating because it's not holding up well against the tensions that you're exposing it to. And it's starting to fray and tear and this tendonitis is starting to move towards a tendonosis. You know, which is the next thing and the next thing would be possibly a tear and your your basically masking that pain with an anti inflammatory. You're preventing the inflammation to prevent the pain. You're also preventing the normal tissue regeneration that comes about from the loading that makes it stronger. Just the same way that n-says could potentially depending on how much you use and how hard you train it could potentially blunt your training. Yeah. So someone who doesn't know like where in their elbow it hurts they just slap some quant. This kind of make it feel great. You know, you really push through it, but you keep doing that. And you're also going to be blocking the ultimate recovery that you want so you can get out of the whole of your injury and not have to use quant along well. Down the road. That's an important thing. People that's in my book. I know that in my book. That's a product. You can get I have an Amazon store actually have something else to ask to. Yeah, what's I have an Amazon store. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I got some products that I mentioned in my book. Oh, nice. That's perfect. So people get on my Instagram. Okay. Profile. So you can go there and I don't I haven't gotten any money or notifications anything. And it was bought anything but I've got of those all kind of collected there. Okay. As like, you know, Scott approved stuff. That's a great idea. We I have that stuff loosely, but I don't have it collected anywhere just when people ask or something makes sense put it in the show notes or something but yeah. Oh, I have a huge spreadsheet. I used to give the clients like, you know, like tons of products like copy based copy based. Yeah. Yeah. That makes sense and that you would put something like this together. Good. Good. You could do it. I think you could do it. I don't know. Like they had I had I think I used some my credential for doing that was my Instagram. Yeah, because I had to put my Instagram in the show that I'm, you know, some somewhat notariable some some something. You mean don't create an affiliate. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. There had to be someone I don't know the right idea there that I already have it. I already have it. I do have an affiliate account with them. Oh, then you're good to go. Yeah. Okay. That's so. Let's see if we have anything else here. There was a question about health and training from our good friend Juan down in Mexico. Okay. So he initially said, do you have some thoughts on high intensity training in health? And then I asked him if he could be more specific. And he said, he said, sure. He says muscle. It's indecrine organ and keep in mind. English and I was first language. Do you think if we train by high intensity fashion that it would help people with metabolic disease like type two diabetes? Oh, absolutely. Would it help any more to train high intensity versus another style? Like high intensity resistance training? Yeah. Does that mean I think because he kind of an HIT guy. Yeah. Kind of two two aspects of that come to mind. So if we're talking about type two diabetes, the main thing that exercise is going to help remedy there. So a couple things that are going to happen. It's going to help remedy insulin sensitivity right off the bat. And if you continue to train and you start changing your body composition and reduce your body fat, that's going to help with insulin sensitivity. So a leaner person is going to be more insulin sensitive. And you can reverse type two diabetes. If you, if you haven't gotten to the point where over the years, your tail spinning towards a type one insulin dependent by diabetes type situation. So without it out exercise generally can do that. Most of the time they looked at cardiovascular exercise, but that without it out can be done in happens. So as far as like HIT which is low volume and so a lower volume program. For the average person because I know how one train sees on my discussion board. He's posted some videos of the man's of Brigham Monster. He's like tearing this too. Oh yeah, it's like Jordan S. intensity. Oh that's awesome. He goes to town baby. Yeah, like he goes, there's a stiff leg of deadlift. I can't remember what the weight was. It's a size mobile amount of weight. And it's one of those sets where you're like, like this, this guy's going to help. And in fact, he's going to help with the spear to stab the devil in the heart. You know, he's like there's no stopping him. Yeah. He's going in, you know. And because he just keeps going, you know, like most people would have gotten most people wouldn't even pick the weight up, given how hard it was, but he gets like eight reps and like that. But nice. So that type of effort with HIT is going to produce lots of muscle. And it's also going to produce a lot of inroads into recovery. It's going to end of itself. The energy expenditure is pretty high. But it tends to produce an epoch from what I've seen training really hard. And that's going to positively affect body composition. There's something to say, said for training with big group muscle groups like that, really, really hard taking shit to failure, going to town. Most people, the average person who's got already has type 2 diabetes is probably not going to be so inclined to train with HIT for getting good muscle gains. Although they might be physiologically genetic and pre-supposed to gaining the best from that kind of a strategy. They're probably not going to want to do it. Just guessing their lifestyle just from the fact that they have that big marker of, like the E and B sedentary. Not necessarily everybody, but that's, you know, what's your tip that's a predictor of type 2 diabetes, genetics are as well. So that person's probably not going to do all that well with an HIT. Although the answer is question it can be done without it out. Someone, someone who's in that situation would probably be better off doing whatever it is if they want to lift weights, whatever type of training style they find to be the most fun that they can maintain and keep using. It's interesting, like the body composition changes will be reflected in insulin sensitivity. So as long as you get leaner and you're a new staleeiner, which in other self is a huge feat. A lot of people don't, they get, they can prove it and they revert back a year or two later. You know, like the biggest loser type of thing, I think, you know, some of those folks just go back to where they once were. But they shouldn't be enough. A lot of them, the insulin sensitivity effects of exercise were very short-lived. They don't, they don't last that long. There's a huge effect. Yeah, a lot of which is reversed. Yeah, I know that. Yeah, yeah. So, but getting leaner and it then, but you're going to train, you know, three times a week. So you're going to spend almost all that time with improved insulin sensitivity. Yeah. You know, unless you do something crazy with your diet. So, finding like a higher volume, you know, more moderate intensity, type of regime that's fun. I mean, I'm thinking, like, this is just, you know, this is a two-year-on-a-heartening. But for a two-training, it seems to be a really fun way to train for lots of people who like to really train pretty hard. And I know this is just I'm thinking of like, there are a few people now that I know of. There's actually two gyms that I know of, where they use four to two training for the lifestyle clients. I don't know kidding. Let's cool. Yeah. Yeah. There's, I did a seminar at one of them in Indiana, like right after the Arnold. Okay. And yeah, so they have, it's funny. It was kind of kind of fun. They've got several trainers there, a couple of them. They do a three, three times a week. They use the family man plan. Basically. Yeah. Yeah. So like Mondays, heavy legs, light upper body, Wednesdays, heavy upper body, light legs, and then Friday is muscle rounds full body. They just train that way three times a week. And they love it. It's like, because every day it's like, it's like, oh, God, I got the same old shit again, you know. Yeah. And they're really enjoyable. And so they keep on doing that. But it's hard, these guys like to train hard too. They're a lot of fun to be with. We ran a few of the ringer a little bit there at the end of the seminar I did. So they enjoyed it, you know, and that's, so that's the main thing. I think it's funny, like, initially, you don't want to, you have to ride that line with especially people who are in that, who are in this disease state who are coming in and you're asking them. Okay. So you don't, I mean, you don't have to take insulin right now. You're just being told by your doctor that your glucose levels are too high. Yeah. So that's not like putting the fear of God in you, quite you. It's not like you're seeing like people like, you know, just, you know, dropping like flies around you from type two diabetes. But so there's no like immediate reward in going and doing something to prevent a future that, you know, might only be at the diagnosis of my only impact your future 20 years from now. So like, so first you bring something into the gym and, you know, you don't want to be like that, but head trainer who wants to show your client like how hard you can push people and you just, you know, drop them. That's just like, no, that's the wrong way, though, and everyone actually has again, it'll be so rich shit probably blah blah blah. So you gotta find something that's that fits within their realm of possibilities, what they can accomplish and not feel like they've just been tortured. So like, ford it to you, training would be too much. Yeah. First of all, first of all, confusing if they've never trained before, like what the fuck are we, you can guide them through it on a day by day easily actually. It's not that hard to do. Oh, wouldn't be if you were, these are lower, yeah, these are lower, these are higher apps, you just you get on the pump sets, you're like, you watch what they do and they just make up a pump set as they go along. Simple as that muscle rounds, you can figure that out in a couple weeks. But they'll be too hard too much intensity. So, but you get them to wherever their effort level is that's maintainable in this case. And introduce variety. So like if you if I think once big on HIT and DC training, that's kind of stuff without it out, a great way to train from muscle mass. I have that built in, according to training. So they'll have some days where like, okay, we're going to do one day a week. We're going to do some heavy stuff for your legs. It's going to make your legs grow. The other days we're going to, we're going to chill with the legs. We're not going to try to beat you out, but we're going to just couple sets. Big ones and then you're done. Then you earned your bagel, whatever, you know. So, and then the rest of it, you just, but you make it fine. And keep it within those lifting parameters where they're, they're pushed a little bit. But they know they're never going to be pushed too much. And then they always can lay back so they can all regulate based on their lifestyle, what have you. And you just find their comfort zone relative to the sports structure. They have it home and with the trainers and everyone else. And then so you do you best you can. But the main thing with something like type to diabetes is it's, it's not like you fix it and you walk away. You got to find something where you can continue to keep fixing it because the resist because the insulin sensitivity will degrade and the lifestyle changes will revert. Yeah. So finding something that is sustainable is the name of the game ultimately not something that's optimal but sustainable. That does make sense. And then hey, who knows down the road? If they get into that, then maybe they'll get a little bit more intense later. It happens like right like there's, who was I talking to someone like it's when people, they quit smoking. Okay. It's like, and there's a gotta be term for this because it's the opposite of the abstinence violation effect. Okay. So the abstinence violation effect is your, your quit smoking. And then we talk about this in regards to exercise and dieting all the time. You quit smoking and then you, you violated that abstinence. And then you're like, I fuck it and you just start smoking again. Like the little thing is just one cigarette that's not like it undated the fact that you had to smoke for five months. Just one cigarette just get back on the wagon. Right. And people are like, they do that. It's, oh, this is physiological because when you're dieting down and eat a bunch of carbs you haven't been. Grayland sensitivities really high and the grain line will dry your appetite. So it's a physiological runaway train. But some of it's also probably in your head and you're like, oh shit. You know, I fucking, I don't care. I, I get a breakfast suck. It's going to be a whole cheat day and you just go to town. I'm getting burgers. I'm getting pizza, whatever. But the opposite happens and I, and I don't know what this term is. I'll maybe else to dig it up. But it's where, and you see this as well. When people, they make one, they, they don't want to live with sort of the cognitive distance of doing one very helpful, be, help behavior and not doing others that are commensurate with that. So they stop smoking. And I'm, yeah, you see this, right? It's really, you see everyone knows someone is probably multiple people. So they stop smoking and then become a health nut. Yeah. Right. Yeah. I started doing everything. You know, like they got the gut, they go over the deep end. Like, you know, it's like, I'm eating nothing but nuts and lettuce. You see that in recovery people who get to alcohol and drug recovery, you know, and that gets pretty extreme, you know, at times. Yeah. Like the absence of all this is kind of drug recovery. Perhaps there's a lot of the behavior. I mean, not a lot of it. But some, some portion of the, um, health behavior literature is based on, you know, people who do bury unhealthy behaviors because there's good reason to study them. Okay. You know, it's like if you have someone who's 25 and has no, you know, immediate health concerns that's going to cause them to maybe not be around in a few months. Yeah. You know, because because they're not an addict on the street and checking shit, that kind of thing, it's hard to get money to study those things, which have long-term health outcomes. We're about, in so many ways, immediate, you know, tell me how it can help right now. Yeah. Um, but so another model that's, well, that's, that's relevant, I think, is people who are who have pretty severe eating disorders, or they have drug addictions, or they have really abrant behavior. And it's a model for, you know, less abrant behavior, but it's still a model for human behavior. So it can be applied, I think, even if, you know, the direct studies aren't there. So I think it's, you know, useful guiding information, at least to figure out. So yeah, like if someone like, they start doing that and then like, well, I think I love, you know, I love that. And when I work out, I go over and I get the, you know, the smoothie, yet whatever smoothie keying has got this that and it's got spirulina and all the good, like, you know, super juices that are hot on the presses at the time. And they do that. So like, that's so treat to themselves. But look at all of us, I think, you know, I did a podcast to a while ago with the guys from cerebral entertainment and. Oh, good. Yeah. I may have asked you, we talked about this. Okay. Well, maybe I sent them to you. We, they, they listened to B and R. But, about a billion years radio and then they expanded listening to devices from there. And then they kind of, they grew. But, what, one of the things we talked about, I had been in there a few times. We did look a three-part show about exercise about training for people that were newer. And here's the mindset that I had with it was that I thought, okay, let's talk about training in one segment. Let's talk about diet and another segment. And then let's talk about like, wrap it all together plus supplementation in the third segment. And I thought, well, what should I do first? And then I thought to myself, I feel like training is what comes first. I think this, what you're telling me, it's like, this is, I think everybody really. It's like, you start exercising and then you start thinking to yourself, like, we'll shit. If I exercise, I want to eat something healthy that will help me be better at this. You know, and then in the, you know, I think everybody who's on the right. Everybody who's on like the six meal a day plan, eating clean, didn't start doing that and then exercising. You know what I mean? Like we got healthy because we fell in love with lifting weights. Like it all goes back, I think, to the exercise first. For us without it out, there are people, I know people who have really, really, very specific, helpful diets. At least there are opinions that, but they've chosen the healthiest diet, but they don't exercise very much. It's not very strong. I've seen that. Yeah, I have seen that too. But I feel like everybody who lifts weights started with weights and then went to diet. You know, yeah, it just doesn't, it just doesn't like make any sense. It's kind of like, like, buying a luxury vehicle and then, you know, you just like, you go to the McDonald's dry. It was in each of burgers and throw the rappers on the floor. It's like, that's a frigging jag war. Why do you have French fries on the floor board? Like, yeah, still ain't. You know, so like this doesn't make sense. You kind of go in one direction. It's just, it's nice that that happens. But you want to play on that and even reinforce it, I think. Yeah. You know, in a way that, so it's not, so it's not adding to, because there's a certain load that you do carry when you start behaviors like this. You know, there's, there are still barriers to action. There are still, still, some things that can get in the way. But you know, I just really want to go to the gym today or think I should or, you know, it's getting late or it's cold or what have you. So if then you start, you know, adding all, then you set the bar for yourself. It's pretty high. It's like, so, you know, shit. If I can't eat right, it should even be trained as it makes any difference. You see, this one too. So like, you start eating perfectly and timing counting all your meals and you get a six pack bags and you're doing all the, you're completely transformed and all of a sudden, like, some of those things break down. And then because you're, then people will feel like, well, since I can't carry the full load of doing all those things correctly, then fuck the rest of it. Yeah. Then you create an absence of it. Then you build a deck of cards or house of cards for yourself. You're not going out. Well, house comes tumbling down. So the idea, I think, would be is that those, those other behaviors that come in after the training are reinforcing, not adding to the burden that potentially could bring the house of cards down, but rather making the training more fun, and more enjoyable and integrating it all together in a way that all helps helps itself. So the training means I get to eat in the ways I like to eat and when I eat those eat well, I get to, I can train harder and I feel better. And the two things reinforce one another and a positive way. So, so, even if one thing falls away, then you're like, instead of saying, oh, fuck it. It's like, oh, man, I got my diet still crappy and I just feel sluggish and work my workouts. So I like to train. Fuck this. I'm going to start eating good again. Yeah. You want to, you want to, you re-correct the correct balance of those things. You've all that you put together to, for the sort of symbiotic relationship with your lifestyle that you want to have. So that's kind of the way I think the couch at all. But if you start pushing things on someone, it won't happen that way. It has to sort of come about organically or maybe through the guidance of a coach or trainer says, you know, This would be a great thing to have afterwards. Oh, my God. I love the strawberry shakes. They have over there. And that's a great thing for you because of blah, blah, blah. Yeah. Anyway, I got to, let's see if we can squeeze one more in here. This is from Clint Schover and he says, What would cause RBC hemoglobin hematocrit and protein to be low? Protein is down from 6.7 to 6. hematocrit is 39. He's running test at 1,000 milligrams in these six weeks into that. I wish my hematocrit would get lower on 1,000 milligrams of test. How I wish we would get lower on 500. Should I, I got a question myself, should I up my test from 600 to 1000 to lower my hematocrit? Because I feel too dead. I'm going to jump on that today. Let me some one read this question. He doesn't Clint. Do you have, um, what was your hematocrit beforehand? 39 is, he says it's down though. No, he just, what would cause those things to be low? The protein went down. The hematocrit just gave me a value for it. Yeah. And that's 6.7 to 6. I wouldn't say that's probably, especially notable, that could be within measurement error. Okay. That's, I would, I would wait to see, I mean, the red blood cells have, um, a life cycle that's, I think around 90 days people usually talk about. Okay. If he were low, if he were, just 1000 for 6 weeks, just about now things should be climbing up. So if he were hypogonaddle and he started, um, the gram of test week. And because he's like, fuck it, I feel like shit. It may take some time before the hematocrit starts to raise. We said, um, he said he used to be at, well, 48. And now I can't be hematocrit. Can't be 48. Oh, yeah. I guess it could be 48 hematocrit sure. And that would be, and so he's down to 39. It drops 9 points. It could be his bunk test too. I wonder, I wonder. Yeah. Dr. Dean St. Marks has had beholidays, guys. Yeah. Dr. Dean, that would be a good question for him. I mean, this, I'm trying to think of any, like, non-genetic, based, I mean, like, yeah. There's me, and during testing, it's could get foot strike come alicis. Another clip popped up, where, you know, they, like, because they're doing so much running in the feeder pounding on the ground that they end up rupturing red blood cells that can reduce. Wow. But I don't think that's it. He just popped up. I saw his avatar, he was a big dude. He's a big dude. Yeah, he's a really big dude. He's like he's in a thousand milligrams of test. This is, that's a cruise for, for Clint. Yes. Um, Laura Montana. I think it's really beautiful out there. Anyway, uh, can you stock in him right now? So what's going on here? No, I, I, I just, I see his, um, with pops up when I, when I hover above his avatar, or he's, yeah, he doesn't want to Laura high school. Laura Montana. Um, shout out to Laura high school. Yeah. I don't know what that is. I don't know where that, but Laura Montana. Yeah, I just, I think, I think I've been through there. But, one of my journeys. That's a good question Clint. I mean, I would, um, the chemical exposure is something, possibly he works at a refinery. Huh. That's what it says. That's bad. I would, yeah, I would go, I would probably go and see the dock. Unless, you know, it used to be 48, unless he, I mean, it could, it could, it'll be a bonk testing. So here's a situation. If Clint and I'm not saying you were, weren't doing this, but if you were on a full-blown cycle, and some guys do this, not saying he does it doesn't. Some guys cruise on a gram. Yeah. You know, like literally like they, or they will, you know, or 500, or what have you. So they, they take all the other extra goodies out and they run, and I've actually, not thinking back to think of several people that have said they kind of do this thing. So, so they're sticking with the gram, like that sort of base. Um, because they don't want to go all the way down to a 2HRT. They just, they've come to this place and it's how they do it. So they add things on deck or EQ or what have you on top of that, and they come back to a gram. So it could, if it, if it, if it's, here's a possible scenario, you don't have to confirm with the knife, this, but, it all, but, you know, maybe if you were on something bigger than that beforehand, and then you came off and started a new kind of test. Um, maybe that test is bunk, and you're not losing, you're not feeling too much as far as the hematicric goes, um, because you've still got the residual effects of all the other stuff that was once in your system. And now it's starting to come out. But 39 is low, and it could, I mean, you can get, you can get hemals at the blood test, too. You know, that can, that can throw things off. Yeah. You can get a bad, you can get a bad full bottomist who makes an error with the turn of get. Yeah. You can also retest it. Probably wouldn't be a bad idea. I would definitely retest, you know, if you, you've got a doctor that, that takes care of you. See what he or she thinks about some other tests that you can look into, because, you know, that's a, that's a, that's a, if that's accurate, it's a big drop. Yeah, right. That's getting pretty low. And I could use to learn how you did that. So teach me your way. Let's do much though. You don't want to go that low. I'll take half of that. It couldn't, you know, what your hemoglobin was. He says, um, he did add to go back to the doctor. I started taking iron a month ago to see if that would help. This was the second test that was low. Damn. So he's done it twice. I would, I would make sure you're eating like red meat sources, he and based iron. That'll help. Yeah. Yeah. There's also some possibility of vitamin interference with, um, iron up takes. So check into that. Yeah. He unarelated note. Can I ask you your thoughts on an, um, an ocetal for, lowering hematocrit. Um, I started using this, um, maybe about six weeks ago now and I haven't been tested since. Um, but I, from what I understand, it can, it can lower a few points from what Dante had said. It, it can be helpful to lower it maybe two three points for somebody that's on T RT, but for somebody on cycle that's not going to be, like, a, a massive drop. Do you have any, uh, thing to add to that? Yeah. Is it IP six and osmosis, six spots? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. So it's a, it's a iron keylating supplement. So what it basically does is prevent iron absorption. Okay. So you're, the idea, it's, as I understand, like, it's a pretty simple thing. You're just, just depriving your body of iron. Okay. As essential material for producing hem in the red blood cells. So you're basically just saying, you know, we don't want to make the, the bricks that are, um, you're red blood cells. Well, we're not going to provide the cement that's the, okay. Those bricks just like the, like the hem being the, anologist or the iron being anologist of the cement. So when you've got a badass supercharged brick making machine in place when you're super supplementing, it may not fucking matter. It's like they can make bricks no matter what. We got a little figure out a way. I'm really good at making bricks. Yeah. Yeah. You're too high. Okay. Yeah. So, you know, there's synergy and the potential that things could be somewhat additive. Do. You know, so that, I don't think it's going to hurt you unless you, like end up being iron deficient. Yeah. So check your fair and then that kind of thing. You know, make sure your iron status is good in the blood. Okay. And, but, you know, if you do some of the other things that you may have in mind, you know, like donating that kind of stuff, then it'll mean you just got a little bit, get a little bit from pull from the various possibilities and use them all in reasonable amounts, you know. Yeah. So, but I wouldn't like start, you know, pouring a half a cup of IP6 into your breakfast coffee. Yeah. Got a right down mixer right here. There you go. Nice. All right. We're about out of time here. It's good to see you again Scott. It's been a little while. Yeah. Likewise, man. I'm so glad I'm back on Facebook again. I was like, just like, showing me the Facebook. Yeah. No, I'm starting. It's nice to see people with funny. I just, I added like, maybe you're asked requested like, cry 100 people today. I just went on there and just started, you know, clicking all the ones. So there wasn't any like, if you didn't get added, it's just because I just went through the list that it suggested to me. Right. Right. I added like the people that I recognize essentially. We only get a profile picture up yet. I did. So I first went. I went to go to my phone. It would kept on referring me back to the hackers. Yeah. You know. Yeah. So I'm like, so I take in Facebook off my phone. And I was doing some other things. I'm going to go get some load Facebook on, log on. And I don't know that my, um, because what I did, like, because Facebook, I'm going to just leave Facebook out is like, I just use the, just the apple, the max suggested, um, strong password, which is a series of dashes and like, you'll never remember. Yeah. That I'll never. That I don't plan on remembering. Yeah. And, you know, that way there's no password and then we use anywhere else that anyone can make use of. So I'm going to start using those for like, because I get up. You set, you set, you register places all the time. Yeah. Just forgetting the packages. You might order one thing and, and I, you know, I'm going to start using those generic passwords because if I, if I don't have a membership at some place or order something from two years, I think it'll be okay. Yeah. Right. But anyway, so it took me while to get on there and then I did add a picture. Oh, okay. Good. Yeah. And I did it to my phone. I just like whatever. I just want to because when people are like who the hell is this? Like there's no profile picture. That's obviously, you know, fake account. Right. Exactly. You and me. Yeah. And it just wouldn't load it for people who are wanting why Scott's asking it wouldn't load. I made the, um, I made the account and I literally I click upload. It would just, you know, spin, spin, spin. Yeah. So Facebook, um, what to deal is. I have one more question for you. Yeah. Do you plan to make any new year's resolutions? All right. The thought had not crossed my mind one time actually. No. No. Well, because I'm constantly in a state of trying to re-engineer my worldview and my perspective on life to make it as, as, as, rewarding and growth promoting and creative and authentic and loving as I possible to can. Like that's my daily grind. Yeah. Is to, is to give expression to a better version of me in any way I can. So, I mean, I, I, I could maybe come up with one that's sort of like, you know, sort of long-term plan because it's nice to make plans and like, can make yourself to something but. Yeah. That's a really good question. And I've also had some things I want to have happened that I could talk about, but that would take us way off. Okay. Okay. I was just wondering. I try to make a few every year, but I don't just do it like, buy new years and new years day I set this, but I am making a list of things that I want to do. One of them is build a website for my coaching because I've never built a website for my coaching. Simple, you know, but I do a lot of other stuff that I've always just put it off and I've never needed to just, you know, word them off referrals and stuff have worked out great, but I think I should, you know, I want to have a website. So, keep it simple, something easy to a splash page of sorts, you know. If you like, it's very easy to do. You may even be part of whoever you have hosts, whatever I S.P. Yeah. I use my B.B. It's an open source, a bulletin board like B.B. Oh yeah. Yeah. And I can give you access to money, you can check out it's got, but it's basically fully functional. It does everything that I might be be which cost like $800 or $1,000 a year does, but it's free. Okay. And you can download that. Here's how I do my online clients and you, this is, I got, I stole this from Can Hill. Okay. Because it's, it's, it's, it works great. So you have your open board, your forum, people can ask questions. And I, for, for it's worth, I have, I have free Q&A like every day on my discussion board for anyone about the quarter to two training book. Okay. By the book, if you happen to read the email that you get with purchase, it tells you this. People just don't take advantage of it for whatever reason. So, so there's a discussion board with all the forums and all kinds of like intense muscle, professional muscle, all the, you know, devices for them. And then I have a totally invisible forum unless you are a client. Yeah. And when I do my intake, they fill out a forum and it's launches a thread in that forum that only that person, my client and myself can see. That is cool. Yeah. It's cool. It's cool. It's cool. It's cool. It's cool. It's cool. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, no one else sees that you can go to that forum, the clients forum as a client. All you see is your thread. Right. Right. And whatever stickies are there. But I see all the threads. And you can get notifications just like you can all that kind of stuff. If they message you, you get an notification on your phone and your email, you go and you check it and you respond. You can post your pictures. It's all there. Then you can go back and look like Jordan for instance at one point in time when we work together there. He told me like, this is maybe a year ago. That he went back and looked at one of our times working together. It was like three years previous to that. No kidding. It's cool. Yeah. Because it still has access to it. Yeah. So it's very cool. And he said he was like, man, I just saw some things that I hadn't been doing. Now. And like he did this all on his own. Yeah. He always, you know, trying to make himself better. And he's like, yeah, and that was phenomenal. It was just so amazing. Like he now has having coaches when he people as he has. Yeah. And he's like, back on that and reflect on it. That was like a just you we just worked that perfectly. Right. It's funny that like down the road you can see that. Yeah. You know, but you don't know. We see that when you're newer. Right. Yeah. And down the road that you can literally like literally see that. Like you can go back and look that is cool. If I'm just the boards up. Otherwise those emails get lost. You change your email or if it's. I used to use an encrypted email. Okay. You know. And like you have so much storage space. And sometimes like, well, what let's put those, you know, those emails and, you know, store them away. So you have to reopen them on archive them and that kind of shit. This is nice. It's all right there. And it's unlimited if you have the right right amount of count. It's unlimited. So I hope you set that up. I'd set up one for Dave Henry's page where he's where he coaches people. Okay. Yeah. I'd love to talk to you about that more. Yeah. And anyone else like just people know that it's a very simple way to do it. My BB. So. So I'm going to go to the website, go over to fortitudetraining.net. As well as be why OBB coach.com. And thanks for watching guys. As I mentioned in the beginning, if you haven't subscribed, we'd love to have you over at the YouTube page. A bunch of podcasts coming out each week. Scott, as always, man, it's been a pleasure. Yes, happy New Year. Do something fun, safe. And something maybe you've never done before. And let us know what it is if you so choose. Thank you.

What's up guys welcome back to Muslimines with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McNally all of our programming is brought to you by TruNutrition.com You could use our code. Thank for additional savings hit me up if you have any questions about any other flavors Anything you want to do with their highly brand cyclic deck string They've got all sorts of different supplements. You can create all sorts of great combinations. I use them for all my workouts If you're in Canada Check out supplement source.ca as I've mentioned before. I've seen pre workouts there on close out for like 15 bucks I saw carbolin for like $25 off so if you need a deal if you're in Canada There's a great place to go to get supplements plus they support our programming So by shopping with them, you know, there's your supporting good people and you're getting good supplements to and also We're supported by Patreon by you guys. Thank you guys very much for everything you do all your contributions I'm gonna be doing a Just like a one on one with you guys a live stream over at Patreon coming up pretty soon So I'll be taking questions for that over there So make sure if you're one of the Patreon members that you log in and you check out what's going on over there Scott Stevenson what's going on man You remind me of something that was it's a John Meadows memory when John first started the granite supplements Yeah, and we went out to California if we met the California to do some of the initial advertising I had I had have all the ingredients in the supplements memorized like it's like it's spit off a little introduction to How they how it works and why we chose the dose of a lot. I remember that went yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We went to The factory where his supplements were being produced and that's where rich pianist stuff was being made to as well Oh, no kidding funny because John was starting off and John made a really pretty large investment and rich pianist 30 times as big as like there's John's you know a few palettes of you know the first the first bottles and and like that whole half of the warehouse is rich Be honest stuff. Oh, yeah, but the thing that you mentioned the $25 off and I remind you remember I forget the name they that they gave to this area of the warehouse, but down in the basement They had like all these left over supplements from the like from like years now of companies that were like starting to start their own supplement line Yep, and we just went down there's like he was like a museum of supplements that never were or Oh kidding. Yeah, so cool. We went down there and they were just everywhere like you find something you want Just take it. Holy crap. No, grab it. Yeah, so like I got like some there was like one like pre workout There was like I think it might have been like WTF. I think that was the first like that It's called it that and there was like another was called like brain blaster or something like that Yeah, heart you and guy with his eyes bugging out of his head. That's amazing all these hilarious supplement names You know like they're looking it's like you almost want to buy those supplements because the name of Okay, just gotta buy this just to have it. Yeah, you know Like like I have somewhere in one of my boxes that I haven't haven't unpacked I have a supplement that is probably 15 or 20 years old to actually had canadao all in it What is that and Canadaoids? Oh CBD. Yeah, okay. Yeah, yeah, it's got CBD in it This is long before like this came on the scene, you know, and yeah and pot and came legal Yeah, and the name of this it was it was to increase your appetite and the name of the supplement was black hole You just want to eat so much you're like a black hole. You're just engulfing everything That's crazy. I never even took it. I haven't even opened the bottle, you know But I'm our topic today though our topic is like the opposite of the black hole We have gotten asked a lot all the time now one of those I think like one of the most popular buzz supplements out there right now or drugs in bodybuilding are the GLP one drugs and We had a question and actually this was from one of our Patreon people He said have you ever had a client use a GLP one Agonist like some a GLOOTEIDE or Lyricaloo tied I've never tried it personally But sounds like it could be helpful for someone doing a hard push at the tail and of a diet I know that vigorous Steve has talked about this stuff a lot I first heard about the GLP one drugs back in 2016 I didn't interview with Colette Nelson women women's bodybuilder She she had done a whole show with me about micro dosing insulin and she said But we have to get back together and do a show about a new topic because everybody in bodybuilding is going to freak out when they learn about these new Blood sugar drugs that are actually going to help you lose fat and And she was talking about GLP one stuff so We haven't really talked a lot about them on the show. It's not something that I've personally used I've known people who have used them for medical purposes including a client and I've seen issues In some of those situations But I wanted to bring it to you and maybe we could talk just a little bit of science about what these drugs are and and maybe Here's what my concern is too is that a lot of times when something new comes out Everybody always sees all the positives for the first few years and everybody's like Oh, this is the latest greatest thing and it's real easy to sweep under the rug the negatives In fact people get really upset if you start pointing negatives out of something they do they do You know and and until that drug or supplement has run its course Down the road and then people have a more balanced perspective, but I don't know Let's balance some perspectives today. That's that's my thought Yeah, and sometimes you just find like Test the time We'll we'll tell you there's so many supplements that have come and gone absolutely about a lot of the growth home when releasing peptides Yeah, you know those were so big before and you know now some people still use them I think you can still find them. They're still selling yeah, especially people who don't want to do something illegal You know, they feel it's gonna be a safer option legally Right, but if they were like if they were all that then you'd see here guys that you know Probably like they're using growth hormone for six weeks and they do which would make sense actually do like two weeks or four weeks with those Yeah, they have an organizational effect on the pituitary because they're stimulating Petuitary pituitary produces a number of different hormones and those those tend to help Petuitary organized the self there's an organization to the The cells that's discrete the various hormones that come to it very hormones So it would make great sense if there's any issue with like growth hormone recovery Which I don't think there is but you'll be sort of like doing um Kind of a PCT type of thing great right with yeah for growth hormone But people aren't doing that, you know, it just didn't happen and there's a there's a lot of truth that comes just from Standing the test of time and and you know the bro science Which I think of as as experience through trial and error in practice so to speak out of there's you can think of bro science as what someone says This works and they just make up some bullshit scientific explanation Right, that's not what I'm talking that that's that's the worst sort of hormone growth sense I'm talking about guys who've tried things out and it seems to work from experience and And they may not even know why the set that is connected in some way to the scientific understanding that we have of how the drugs work or how the Training Application may work or what have you so anyway, so this is an interesting It's an interesting Set of drugs you've got so when we are our an interic nervous system is It's just absolutely phenomenal It's connected to our microbiome with our with the bacteria that are there and that's an entirely sort of Unknown universe potentially there's there's as many Organisms of microorganisms in our microbiome as there are cells in our body Leave you and maybe more Massive number of bacteria and the spage Viruses which are bacterial viruses and our vagus nerve there's vagal activity that is mediated through the The interic nervous system and we've got when you eat for instance You've got secretin that comes from the doodinum and colisist of kinin and then these in creed and hormones Which is glucone glucose unlike peptide one and Which is vagal active and intestinal peptide that's the other one Who could find what it is it a note here. Yeah, I forgot the other one's name all the time Yeah, gastric and hepatoid and inhibitory peptide GIP so what these basically do is they Mediate the glucose signal becomes or actually potentially fats too, but the case of the increations So the GLP1 being one of those You eat and your blood glucose goes up and that will Have an effect directly on the insulin is strictly the least from your pancreas But if you eat something So you can you can test out that effect by infusing glucose in the blood we get any questions or just comments No, okay, okay, I see you look it over there. I'm like oh, maybe we're doing some good comments now my my monitors over here So I try to look this way because this is where the cameras, but if I want to look at you I'm actually over here. Yeah, you can't just make your eyes go Not on most days. I would be crazy But when you do film it because I like to see that that actually can happen So these are these are Hormones that are released from our gut actually the gut hormones and they modify the insulin release and they also modify our sense of satiety and The activity in your gut for Digesting the parasites and moving things through the gut So it makes sense like you've got a pretty bit production going on it happens all the time of course Which you eat food and then you've got a digest the food you've got to release the enzymes from the pancreas You've got to release the pancreatic hormones So you've got an enzymatic response you got a And then and and and and endocrine response and exigent response and GLP1 mediates all of that so the the medical application is for things like mainly diabetes but other related things like PCOS and And other disorders where you tend to have insulin In sensitivity or insulin resistance So you get a nice scenario where if you take it GLP1 agonist So it acts like GLP1 Normally you eat you get the stench in you get glucose that rises and then you want to Be able to control that so the GLP1 would be released to say okay, hold on We need more insulin Right so we can get the get the nutrients out of the blood into the into the cells add a post muscle What have you and we also want to slow down the food let's see if a massive like amount of your eating as fast as you can First thing you want to do is slow down the intake so it acts on your brain It says okay don't eat so much reduce the appetite because we got plenty of food coming in and also Let's slow down the movement there because we have to have time to absorb that stuff If you just ate something and it just went all the way through Then you'd have some problems because you'd have a lot of undigested unabsorb food that would get into your large intestine and That's where the bacteria have their have their way with it. So things like beans which have undigested Food part of this undigested that gets that's why you get gas people with lactose intolerance The lactase gets down there the lactose gets down there They have an issue because the the bacteria get on then you'd have diarrhea So you want to meet you want to modify and meet eight how fast the food's moving through your system So GLP one basically says hey we're full Let's make the appropriate adjustments and transit time through the G.I and Insulin release from the pancreas So here's the trick. This is why it's a cool drug so to speak Is you use an agonist that mimics that action and It slows movement through your G.I and inhibits your appetite up in your brain and because you have longer You have more stretch or a longer period of stretch that in of itself means your less hungry So it makes for you're gonna might get a little more insulin release because of it I don't know I haven't looked into the the science to see how it compares like on an acute basis to get more insulin release That would that would Move that would like send us back towards the insulin Hope hypothesis about Adapassi when have you that's all about insulin whether you're not you have body fat or not And there's not a lot of evidence is just that really in the long run It's amount of calories, et cetera So you've got a nice basically drug that tells your brain and your and your system your your G.I that you've got more food in there than you actually do Yeah, it's the easiest way to understand it tells the brain. Okay. Hey hungry should go down It's a tie is gonna be come up come on earlier. I mean you don't get hungry again for your next meal and You're gonna have food that enters into your system at a slower rate So you're basically gonna reduce reduce the glycine again decks of your food as well So it's it's a pretty nifty trick If you want to throw that figure up that I sent you we can we can kind of look at that Make that you know you just yeah my faces reach for that so Kind of shows It's what's in red there slow-skastic emptying That at the top in the middle of the brain is there suppresses appetite There's the amplifies something kind of going clockwise around the around the circle amplifies glucose dependent insulin release Actually inhibits glucose on release to So if you had low glucose you'd have more glucose on glucose is gone you release glucose So those are the main main actions I've already talked about so it's it's some It's a pretty it's a you know a pretty smart place to To put in a drug if you want to reduce if you want to reduce appetite and Slow digestion basically it's a snitty little trick into making that a very sort of principle point in appetite regulation and digestion a sneaky little spot to stick a drug in there Because it has a really primarily primary action on on those two things which dictate how hungry you get and what you're eating behavior is gonna be So for a bodybuilder this is kind of the question people are I can get in at this is you're dieting down and you're hunkering in And your your food focus is just like all if you could think about its food Yeah, well, we're not gonna be nearly as hungry and I think there's probably a dose response Mechanos of this these They're injected on a daily basis or a weekly basis so they're pretty long acting And I don't know the the pharmacokinetics of them Because I haven't had this this is this explanations are just from someone who could probably explain this Maybe a little bit better in the average person because I'm a physiologist You know and I have an understanding of how they work, but I've never I'd never tried them. I've had clients use them but it's a pretty you know It's gonna have the same kind of effects in a way totally different mechanisms You can you can take that. I think that you want That should get when you use some path of medics so use stems Like a fedron. Yeah, so you think about digestion Is parasympathetic rest repose rest and digest and sympathetic of your autonomic serve nervous system is Escape fight or flight that's sort of thing. It's the opposite so when you take stimulants You take things like a fedron. We've talked about that. It was like two podcasts back now. I think I'm clean muter all what have you they they would stimulate more activity They free up they cause like policies They may have an impact on your metabolic rate as well Like sinnafriindras et cetera et cetera and so that's those things are inhibiting your appetite and they're causing more activity And they're having they're gonna have an effect too on probably on gastric emptying. I haven't seen that with the stems But given how they work It would make perfect sense that they do so Mechner's action is gonna differ a little bit because you him means kind of an outlier there and the way that it acts It can potentially Potentiate insulin release so anyway It's sort of a different way of kind of getting the same things to some degree doesn't have that impact on metabolism Except I did find one study that shows that um One of the GLP one agonists may have been experimental one tend to cause the browning of white adipose tissue So we may have mentioned this before like when you have brown adipose This is that this is that hype that the thermogenic brown fat yeah, we did talk about that holy trail. Yeah So it may change some of your fat to I like that term browning the browning of white fat That's the term yeah, you've got white fat and kind of beige fat with some of the intermediate and then then the brown fat and the brown fat response to thermogenic drugs and general Yeah, and it's highly innervated highly vascularized Integrated whether it's sympathetic nervous system a lot of mitochondria so it's it's there it's it's a thing that you tend to have more of in people who are leaner Okay, as opposed to those who are Who are obese that that's one protection potential Clayer in why someone might have a genetic propensity for obesity because they don't they don't have a lot of brown fat okay, but it tends to cause as GLP one tends to cause At least in this rodent study that I found And he creates or shifts the white fat to brown fat so maybe even shifting you know literally body composition as well And then I think probably a direct fashion. I don't know I didn't see I didn't read that for enough You tend to assume this morning like oh shit. I forgot to look into that so There's there's evidence out there to that effect so that's the good as far as I can see that's That sounds freaking amazing that all sounds great actually that's yeah Except you can go on the FDA and look at drugs.com and you see pretty universally for For those drugs for these GLP one Agnes and then there's also a deep I think it was in that picture that we had up a bit of go the figure There's the DPP one enzyme inhibitors and those just um yeah mentions that DPP four sorry There's enzyme inhibitors that can be be given that will reduce the breakdown of GLP one So prolongs the half life and increases their activity and Those also have this negative effect one of the things that's going on here is you're stimulating the pancreas So the pankit your your your increase in that the stimulus the GLP one by agonizing its receptor At the pancreas and increasing pancreatic insulin release So pancreatitis is is a potential issue there And you don't want to have an upset pancreas that can cause all sorts of issues then you get digestive issues and then you're then you can be kind of screwed That can be that could be pretty diabolical for someone who's let's say there eight weeks I think I fuck I'm just gonna start taking one of these GLP one Agnes yeah and they build pancreatitis like two weeks after in their show And then you're not a happy camper You're adjusting and you can very well pancreatitis for the most part There's also a risk of C cell cancer it's a type of thyroid cancer Yeah, so that's a possibility too so and Also At least with those enzyme inhibitors you can get joint pain So the enzyme inhibitor is a daily pill yeah, but it can cause some pretty pretty bad joint pain Don't know the mechanism just one of those commonly Reported side effects yeah, so that's not it doesn't help either if you're trying to train hard So the devil wants to have it's due with these you know you can end up like you're constantly messing around That's the cool thing you're messing around with a pivotal point in Regulation of digestive system in your sense of satiety yeah, which is good, you know, it's a powerful lever to pull But it's also powerful lever to pull so it's gonna have potentially powerful side effects depending on the person Yeah, yeah, and I guess just like with anything I'm sure dose duration those are gonna be you know those are gonna be factors and since I haven't used these things with an athlete before I couldn't comment on that but that would be as a coach as an as an experienced person just period in in bodybuilding I would say that would be my first thought is you know using the least amount you could to get that result that you that you wanted I guess Just like with everything like yeah, if you're doing like a once a week injection There's that's nice that's super convenient, right? I don't know what the what the pharmacokinetics look does it look like does it you get a spike and then like We know we got this example like hey your TRT should be you know one mill of testosterone in right once a week right Like that's just horrible you're like you're so like you do it at the wrong time Let's say I'll just do it on Monday so I remember for being in the week and the week It comes around that'd be the worst time to have a hunger rebound come at you. Yeah. I don't know that happens So you know that's the dosing protocol They tend some a lot of times dosing protocols are There's various reasons why you might have them but sometimes the drug that you can just take once And it works for months or weeks on end is the one that most people want to do because they don't have to worry about Of course here in drug protocols is a huge issue Yes, like with exercise for any any like human like health behavior Trying to get people to follow Protocols that will improve their health drugs or exercise or whatever it might maybe prostate screening mammograms all those sorts of things adherence is just a huge huge issue Yeah, so the downside to that like if you do ideally once a day pill is okay because it's a daily thing But if you've got something that you inject and it lasts for a whole week That's imagine imagine a toxin just let's just say it's something that's literally poison That has a like as a half life on the order of a week. Oh, yeah like that toxin will take you out because it hangs around That means there's something about that toxin That in that case, you know if it's a naturally occurring toxin that that animal or that plant that produces that toxin Has evolved such that it just hangs around it takes you out like your your human system can't break that shit down Yeah, because it has a half life of a week Like our our liver is like we're we have all these p450 enzymes we talked about last time I think a little bit it's like our like we can handle all sorts of stuff, but this drug has been engineered So that it will last for a week Wow, that'd be really careful. I mean, I think that's everybody in body bullying gets that though because we all use Long acting testosterone, you know, and I mean like we know we've you know everybody who's been around They've had a shot of Deca, you know, we know what those long acting drugs can do that it's a commitment like once you take it You are you are committed so and and you know Billy Ryan had mentioned and I wasn't sure which was which I couldn't remember our fan, but he said from my understanding Some of glue tied is a once a week injection and lyric glue tied is injected almost daily So and and I remember it, you know, there's one that one that was always almost like on a daily basis So yeah, you know I would think that would be the easier one to control then, you know if you were taking it just like tre nays versus tre n e, you know Yeah, we got that you know potentially like why said why is it hanging around for a week? Yeah, you know, that's like what did they how do they modify that? Why is it working and if you are someone Let's say you start to develop pancreatitis and You know and it's related to the the doses the drug dose I'm sorry I'm safe German word sometimes everyone's likes because doses really doses is the word for dose And German it's really nice and instead of like an American wood It's related to the dose or the peak blood levels it might be let's say you do your injection on Monday and it peaks You know Monday night or next day and then you start to develop these pancreatitis symptoms Senior system yeah, we Like then this is gonna get worse like you triggered it and then then you're then you're gone So you start that four weeks out. I don't know how fast these things come on. I'm just I'm bringing You know the I'm trying to toss out potential caution so people know Maybe what to look for if it happened a big position to use these yeah, so you lose that ability to get it out of your system It's like a it's like a woman who's using anrogens and She's you know, she's gonna use Deca. Let's say exactly. Yeah, that's what I was kind of saying more times For guys, you know, I'm gonna be deal, but for almost like oh shit I just put in this I just did it actually you use double the dose and it's gonna be around for a month And I'm gonna just watch all the side effects It's evenly. There's nothing I can do about it All right, and I'll put it out listen. Let's not go to a couple of these listener questions while I got you here Billy Ryan has said I know this is typically a skip question But are there any potential Deleterious effects from using melanatin too? White is Casper and have considered utilizing it Yeah, I mean Ken can talk about melanatin and his hematicrit That was his experience and I'm we're looking at that. I dug in and I found something in a rodent Study that backed up what he had seen That's far as elevating hematicrit. I've got another buddy of the bodybuilder who's kind of substantial that's a possibility I think you mentioned too and now I have not I think about it like there's there's potential for cancer Pretty much every drug right Milion of 10 2 was actually developed as an anti cancer drugs anti for skin cancer Yeah, and I'm not I'm not sure what the issue was why it never quite made it to market I thought you would said something a while back and and this was we did it was a new year's Eve episode of blood sweat and gear And you came on and hung out with us and and you had shared I thought it was something related to cancer Maybe we should look into that one and and consider you know getting back to it, but you know Definitely definitely the hematicrit thing. I've heard that for sure I haven't let me put it this way. I hadn't attributed high hematicrit to melanatin too when I used it But hey, you know, you never know and I will say this too that I think that if you go by the old posts on the Message boards the dosing that was suggested back then I don't know how it relates to now But I think you can get away with far far less than what it used to be dose Damn I would say using it's a drug that you can see the results So I would say use the tiniest amount you can in micrograms or not Like we used to do a milligrams every day to start and load Yeah, and and I would say try to get away with much much less like hey Dry a hundred micrograms a day and see how that works and once you get there Maybe just a hundred micrograms or two fifty micrograms twice a week, you know, or once a week I think you can maintain it the the problem here's another problem. I see with it people Lose sight of how dark they actually get It happened to me. I've seen it happen to a lot of people I don't in fact, you know and and I would say it to skip space like if we were talking I don't think skip actually recognize is how dark he really is like this really dark He says dark as you can get Yeah, and I will tell you too when I used it real intense My skin was never the same since then I used to burn real easily and now it'll I'll tan it like it's had a lasting effect. I'll tan more quickly than I did in the past so I Think that happens to yeah, you mean you'll get people will get freckles and moles You got to watch for now and so you know this is where like with Maybe this is the reason I have to look into you know I have to probably find the studies that were done the clinical studies you know in root to being Available as drug but The Browning the skin is going to help with potential carcinogenic of carcinogenic effects of UV radiation that's what you know Melanin does yeah basically your skin's brown because the lights Being collected by the brown brown pigment That's good, but if you're turning on the melanocytes and they're then they're producing moles and you've got someone who's Let's say like oh my melanin, I can go out and sun do whatever want like you know I'm invincible here. I'm like Superman. I'll just get browner You may be stimulating You may have a possibility that you've you get One of those moles that turns into a skin cancer melanoma or something like that You get interaction there, but I do think it does work work that way that it has a kind of a permanent Kind of maybe even a reset of yeah of your the activity of the melanocytes or just a level of brownness that you have It's a tough tough call because You know I think Like this is mid just me personally like if if you if you know that you like let's say you've gotten on stage You know say it's Billy he's got he's he's white his Casper he's gotten on stage and and he's done everything He possibly can to get his color right try Jan Tana He's tied protein. He's like try to lick with sun rays Right, try dreaming tan He's tried combining them all and like every time he turns green and it looks like the purple hole You know like never friggin works, but if you get's a little bit of a base tan He thinks he can get it right and Does he go and like go to a tanning salon for like eight weeks, you know and work is way up to you know to that or does he Start on melanotan and not and and you actually there's a synergy between melanotan and Tanny absolutely I would I would definitely combine the two we if you're gonna use melanotan and definitely combine them Yeah, so you know at if you were to add that in and thinking just purely and I've no data to bathe this basis on it Just sort of the if some if someone was like, ah, you know, I just I burn every time I get brown and they've literally You know drop the ball on there on their stage presentation then it might make sense to throw some melanotan in there Yeah, I will say I will say that nowadays with like liquid sun rays I really think there is no need to actually tan anymore You know it used to be that we had to use protein and get five coats on you by the time you got to the show And nowadays with the thick spray tans that I think they have the color good enough That you don't need to have the base tan like you once did you might at worst need a third coat But everybody's spray tans now and they'll take care of you if you're too light They'll they'll fix that for you at the show that would be my thought This was can asked about this on in the group I think and the think big group about doing your channel I did my own channel the last couple years. I was on stage. Yeah, yeah, I used liquid sun rays It take me it literally cost me like I have a that's what we talked about that yeah, yeah, yeah, it's awesome It's awesome. It's awesome. It like I saved like hours of time $100 of money and I look just just good at it. There's better paybacks page royal There's pros and cons. I think you know it's a different conversation But and it would be a good one to have but I do think there's we did have it actually it's been a while But there's pros and cons, you know, there's I guess I could I could get into it But we're trying to get through these so hey guys I'm gonna take a brief pause to shut out our advertisers and try to make this quick But keep in mind they're responsible for helping us to put these shows out if you guys want to support our programming Of course you can do so through Patreon and thank you to everybody who supports the show through Patreon I will have links to that below as well as to all of our advertisers if you shop with our advertisers You'll get great products products that I stand behind and you'll also be supporting our programming First of all check out true nutrition.com if you're in the US I use their hydrolyzed beef collagen every day and I use their citrally mallet beta alanine and EAA on days that I train They have high quality protein powders and tons of flavors hit me up if you have any questions Use our code think over there you'll get some additional savings plus your support our programming and you'll get some high quality third party tested supplements If you're in Canada check out supplement source.ca They have blow out deals on top name brands supplements They constantly have different things happening so be sure to go to their site and check them out I recently saw a car balloon for like 30 bucks off. I mean you really can't beat those prices Plus they have free shipping over 99 dollars If you're in the UK then you probably already know about strong sports They're one of the leader in health supplements in the United Kingdom Strong sports nutrition has standalone supplements like NAC and Tudka and they have finished blends like support max A high quality well priced on cycle support stat. I've least blow to everything. Thanks for watching. Thanks for your support There was another one Scott that I think would be perfectly suited from you for you from Resa He says hi guys my question is how would you go about training for the muscle to increase in a muscle fiber size Versus muscle fiber amount So this is the old hyperplasia versus hyper trophy scenario So everyone says oh growth hormone, you know that's gonna cause hyperplasia We talked we talked about that we this was a couple of weeks ago We went into this and I showed some of the evidence suggesting that in the McDougal study That you know you've got these body builders who have arms are like three and a half inches bigger and They're fibers the same size so like did they start off was It's a bit t fibers and just spend you know all these years of training making them at the same size is the Is the guys who just trained for six months or just part of their growth because they have more fibers It's hard to say like the thing that's the thing to see here's here's why this is tough First of all people just just say hi-perch me when they're referring to muscle growth sure We've lost sensitivity to that what that term actually means this is this is like my little like I don't know it's my little kind of cork that I have my little thing that kind of bugs me a little bit Because hyperplasia means increase in cell size and or sorry hyper hyper hyper Perfectly increase in cell size and muscle growth can come from hyperch of your from hyperplasia potentially or combination there up So you measure home muscle size the changes that you see there typically if you also were to measure fiber size or much less Because the whole muscle is not entirely fiber so if the fibers make up x percent inch and they increase they double in size They wouldn't it go up and 50 percent in five besides you might see it increase in and whole muscle size is 25 percent and That doesn't even seem to match always so it's very very interesting What probably is happening when you get hyperplars a couple different mechanisms that have that have been there's evidence just from having seen What seems to be a transitional period in Whereby you go from one fiber or where you have fibers either splitting or new fibers forming both the which would lead to Hyperplasia and increase in the number of fibers So there there are images where you see little fibers that are literally like splitting off into a wise You have like two fibers like coming from one and There's also Evidence from muscle biopsies where you have small small fibers that are that are much shorter in length than the fibers that are the surrounding them It seemed like they may be new fibers When muscle fibers grow hyperchophie Sadelite cells are involved in the most part like this is kind of a little bit controversy thing. I always have to say that But you see for instance and those people who grow the best That they have more higher satellite cell density in their muscles and the increase their satellite Cell density more so than those people who are kind of moderate responders and on responders just talk about this on Thursday and a webinar I gave in German They also have an accentuated growth factor Response mgf and myogenin for instance is higher So the satellite cell activity is greater there So when muscle cells get bigger just like the the city that's enlarging you need more post offices to service the city You got a muscle cell that's enlarging you need more nuclei to service the city and those nuclei come from the satellite cells the satellite cells get turned on by the By the growth factors which are triggered by the stimulus of the weight training the injury that is involved there And satellite cells are really when there's an injury injury to the muscle there like it could you crush Crush studies the crush injuries to literally take a muscle and they just they crush it and then satellite cell activity goes sky high To repair the muscle so they're part of repair so a muscle cell gets bigger and those satellite cells Donate nuclei and then the cells get bigger in that type of energy But in other way that you could potentially have Muscle grow is you have more functional muscle cells muscle fiber muscle fibers muscle cell and that could be from satellite cells that Several of them would sort of fuse together and Or in some in the process of proliferating proliferating and differentiating themselves form a whole new fiber So the stimulus could cause them to donate nuclei to fibers to those fibers can grow or the stimulus could cause them to proliferate to the such extent that they end up forming a new fiber and That's a pretty Exenchuated process too So the question is like how can you turn on one versus the other? So the evidence we have for Hyperplasia is this things these these indirect evidence I just mentioned and you see when you have biopsies or things you see when you look at the larger muscles that have Fibres as seen like they're smaller there's that very very cool quail study that Hosing Antonio did where they progressively overload Overloads overload Stretch overload model they hang a weight off the quails wing and The quail muscle that bigger and bigger and bigger throughout the month of this overload progressive overload protocol and The fibers initially got bigger and bigger and bigger and the muscle kept on getting bigger and bigger and bigger and the fibers started getting smaller and smaller Yeah, okay, so fiber size went up and then fiber size started going down as the muscle was getting larger and larger So over the long haul What happened was in this particular study and to take this and say well, this is what happens with the resistance training is like huge leap But if we look at that that phenomenon there It suggests that long-term training like we saw in those the subject in the meddual study Maybe something which is required before some of the growth process becomes less hyper-trophic and more so hyper plastic in nature interesting and That would make sense because um and I'm gonna just spit ball something here So A lot of the lot of the body builders you know the men's lot of the best body builders that back when those studies were being done People were training the way Arnold does everyone was doing high volumes stuff not everyone's Mike Mansour was around at that time too But there's an issue with fibers just becoming like just gigantic Because you have you have to be able to have a diffusion distance so you can get energy to those Myophibros that are on the core of the of the of the muscle fiber So your mitochondria typically gonna be outside You've got the myophibros that are producing the force in there and you've got to get ATP to the myocin So the myocin ATP a so you can have crossbridge cycling you can have the force production Yeah, and that's a long haul if you have a gigantic muscle cell It's just giant there's a creatin phosphokini system that does that create and phosphates much smaller than ATP So it's real zippy it diffuses more rapidly so you can get there But eventually you get to the point where if you if you got a muscle that is you've got a stimulus that That where it would be advantage to have more muscle mass So you want hyper you want a larger muscle and You also have a stimulus that is highly energetically demanding So something like you're not just doing two sets Mike Mentors mentioned style you're doing 15 20 25 sets you got if you get this muscle fiber they get so big That it has a diffusion issue that doesn't help you with performance you can't get energy to the the myophibros and Then you've got a muscle cell where you've got energy on the periphery near the where the mitochondria and Why the glycogen is going to be throughout to but you've got potentially an issue where you've got energy availability in the center is especially when you're using this creatin phospho This shuttle it's called energy availability in the center is horrible Because the muscle fibers just gigantic ginormous and it's great on the outside Then you've got force irregularities Yeah, let me see You've got so you don't want that to want that to happen. It would be like having like a four by four truck Where you've got you know like the length of some part of the the four by four mechanism is is longer on one wheel than the other So the wheels like spin at different speeds and it'd be like that would just be a wreck for your suspension So you don't want to have better off than it may start shifting as what you're saying then then the type of growth The exactly so the so the option then is like just as we saw on the quail study the options and well We still need more muscle mass. Yeah, I've got a muscle growth stimulus here, but we can effectively create that by Having more muscle cells having hyperplasia and That way we don't have that diffusion distance issue. We sort of optimized diffusion distance some more normal muscle cell size And we can get more muscle mass by having more more cell. So the way that the thing that might lead to more Hyperplasia over the long haul again, this is a total spitball thing like you'd have to do a really long study You probably to see this yeah and measuring hyperplasia. This is a high thing the hard thing you see this in animal models You see it in rats you see it in cats you see it in quail hyperplasia happens. You know the cats thing Like there's a guy named goneya who you train cats to do risk flexion train them for like a year and they saw like 11% increase in and the Fiber number when some poor graduate student had to peel the fibers off Count on one by one and when you take rodents into that compensatory hyperplasia model You pull out the solace and you let the gastrochrome you'll see in that case some hyperplasia So And those are but those are like that's a one year study and you're counting every five or so it's like okay We're gonna we're gonna train your chests or we're gonna train one by set one way and one by set the other way And then we're gonna take your biceps out like no you're not right. That's a little bit of no really or or take a biopsy and make those Indirect kind of guests and it's like when we can when they compare the six months train versus the the elite body builders So The bottom line there is that over the long haul someone who trains it and perhaps with high volume Or include sort of a high volume more metabolically stressful type of Training Maybe sending a signal that says okay, let's get bigger and we know that high rep sets can make at least on the short term Higher-upsets can cause most of the growth as well as lower rep sets with heavier weight That lot having that component at least or training that way May give you the possibility that the signal is sent to create more muscle mass by creating more fibers Because the diffusion distance issue is something that is probably being sent to my guess just knowing generally what I know about Muscle biology is that it's muscles are bio like they're their bio energetic machines The heart is like it's its own little thing, but muscles are bad asses. So the answer You there is really really cool. So yes to answer is question though. Can you can you pick one or the other Hyperchrophy versus hyperplasia You want probably both you want to get the cells as large as they can be and they get as much muscle mass by having as many cells as possible Yeah, oh, I mean like I could probably create some system and like put together some you know of this Scientifically linked logic that says you should train heavy for you know one cycle the heavy light High-court if you high-propleasure system. Yeah. Yeah. I got some bullshit like that To apply your fibers and grow them on yes The fiber multiplication phase you know and fiber growth phase you know and Well blah blah blah you could even throw drugs in there like use some IGF one, you know But it's hard to know and there's probably genetics that are involved with the extent to which that happens I would think so Yeah, you know and there's some people that just grow crazy like like I've like I've said before You have to keep this all kind of in context too you've got Like that's I mean building a larger muscle cell is a huge overhaul Producing more muscle cells is a ginormous overhaul because you've got a very tumultuous environment there in the muscle It's not like it's an organ that just kind of sits there and does its thing You know, let's say I mean like fat cells like you know there like The force that you're producing a muscle when you train or tremendous imagine if you if you wanted like fat cells They're going to multiply and you went and you squeezed them like a hundred times a day three times a week like as hard as you could That would be severely disruptive to the tissue whenever processes are going on there so it you know it might it might be Having some rest in some recovery is going to be important just for course for a muscle hypergippy We talked about that before but even more paramount for hyperplasia to happen and This is where it's interesting. This is just kind of occurring to me like right now As we say this is that the bro the pro split or the bro split yeah, where you train once a week Would make a lot of sense if you if you respond to that first and foremost to can grow that way Because it gives you a whole week. Let's say you've trained You trained in a way that sets into motion you got enough Size in those cells so the the growth adaptation now is set in a motion whereby it would be hyperplastic in nature Right so now you need time to let that muscle rest probably as much as possible because If it's going to be a hyperplasia you're actually going to be forming new muscle cells and That's a whole new whole new deal. Yeah, like that's that's not just putting a new post office in a muscle Fiverl like adding in a new nucleus. That's like building a whole new subdivision Yeah, which is how you're going to have its own post offices So that's a whole other thing. So training training frequently might not effectively bring that about I don't know You know I don't know what you know the muscle cells super muscle super resilient too like we don't We don't we don't get the same Rack rapidity of growth with weight training that you do in some of these other bottles. Yeah, it pales in comparison I'm paired with what you see with the with the Overload stretch over load and the compensatory over load and the and the cat even well Yeah, the cat training was about normal breaks of growth But some of those models where we see the satellite cell growth or sort of the hyperplasia those happened really really rapidly Yeah, oh I don't know I wouldn't worry about it I tell you what if you get to where you're bench pressing four hundred five pounds and you're pulling six six hundred off the floor You know if you're using those exercises get to where you're just beastly strong or you can just do crazy shit with Hyerps yeah, you're going to be a pretty damn big dude, you know, and who cares how many fibers there are or how big they are at that point Right? Yeah, I wish I could answer that question. That would mean like that idea of like like Periodizing or training yeah to affect different forms of muscle will would be great and the circle plasma hyperch fie thing too is It's just being like perpetuated now is something that happens. I have like I've got a book here. It's across the way it's a it's a German It's in German. I just got it in the mail order from Germany to have hypertrophy training Got it just because being interested in the read I'm gonna learn something for sure And also I'm gonna be able to learn some German with habular while I'm at it It's a good thing to read some scientific stuff in German But they mentioned the sarco-plasia hypertrophy and it's in that study The Cody Hans study where it had the best evidence that we have so far that can happen They they took the subjects from a study where the average muscle growth was nil About half the the subjects were distributed to the where they actually lost muscle size and the other half gain muscle size So they took the they took the subjects the samples from the subjects who gain muscle size and then looked at what happened there And that's where they found evidence of sarco-plasia hypertrophy But that doesn't like like that was a that was a cherry pick sample It makes sense if you want to find evidence of sarco-plasia hypertrophy you have to have hypertrophy first and foremost sure But to say that that that stimulus the way they trained would produce unequivocally Cycoplasic herpherrophy is not would not be a true statement because that stimulus did not produce hypertrophy on the average for some people It didn't some people it didn't so for those who grow from extremists they were some sarco-plasia hypertrophy But that doesn't mean it happens universally just like we don't know to what extent hyperplasia happens universally You know, yeah, so it's really it's and some people just don't grow There's other options for improving muscle performance like the enzymes we talked about Gludge flow Shifting the mice in forms you've got a more efficient or economical contractions There's muscle has had so many levers that can pull to produce better performance and make you a better or stronger lift during the gym neurologically et cetera et cetera That you got to be really really crafty paying attention to how you choose your stimulus because You can actually make plenty of progress in the gym and not grow at all. Yeah, just because that stimulus for you is not a hypertrophic one You see this all the time with guys have been training to get really really strong and then they have to go do high reps stuff to make progress We're trained more frequently to make progress or the other way around like you they had a you got to get you must have to get stronger to make progress But I do think like I said before if you go from average strength to like you're the strongest guy and pretty much every lift that you do in your gym It's gonna show you may not be the biggest dude Clex wheeler was in the biggest the strongest guy in the gym and he was said one of the best physiques ever To you know show up on this on stage But there's something to say for that relationship. I would think I think so too. Yeah, it's a good response I like I knew you'd have something good for that one. Yeah, yeah, we had a couple more I know we were we had the video we were gonna do but we kind of were running lower on time What do you say we save that and then give us something to do next time Because because we did have an interesting topic here from Niven in Canada he says Actually he had a couple of them Hold on just a second We find the other one he posted This one here we go any tips on calming the central nervous system down after training But then he also asks is there any reason why you wouldn't want to calm down immediately after training? Hmm Um Why you wouldn't The independence on what you have to do If you train in the morning you have to go to work and be on your on your toes and be You know cognitively aware of what's going on then you wouldn't want to calm down But I'll tell you what's got this one kind of maybe struck something with me because I feel like I feel like after I had gotten sick which was now 18 months ago That really put me into like a real keyed up state where like my sympathetic nervous system was just like easily triggered and I found that my Ability to handle like intense weight in the gym to handle like the pain of Training drastically changed overnight like my pain tolerance went down not only physically But like mentally and and I feel like a lot of that was because I was already so Like high-strung my sympathetic nervous system was just like you know on the edge and for me to kind of get back into a place Where I can train successfully I've had to be able to kind of like down regulate that So this question kind of jumped out at me because I do feel like it's really important that we are able to Down regulate that like I'm thinking to myself even if I were to go to work after that I would want to be able to calm down maybe not calm down to the point where I'm gonna go to sleep You know what I mean, but like calm down to the point where like I'm not on edging anymore I think to myself like if you're doing progressive overload and You're at that point where you're about to do something you've never done before It's one of the greatest feelings in the world. You know what I mean? You know exactly what I mean, but it's not a place where you can live your entire life. You know what I'm saying You can't stay there. You know Yeah, I mean I talked about it before the some of the best body bills in the world are kind of renowned for having pretty chill personalities Jake Cutler's really chill guy Dexter Jackson, you know Ronnie Coleman, yeah Sean Road and with super chill. Yeah, you know So there is there is sort of a chronic stress load or chronic activity that impacts your pain tolerance Everything becomes harder if you're a stress otherwise is is elevated Like this is a big thing with like special forces guys and You know swat guys and people who are in military Military and that they they may have extreme Circumstances where they need to be totally on and up and ready to go But then they need to be able to regulate themselves back down and you know freaked out unnecessarily about things Because that will impact your performance that your cortisol levels are high unnecessarily, et cetera, et cetera adrenaline so I like yeah, yeah, so We want to know what his circumstances are like one thing that could be a comment issue is You know, you train it after work and you're using a pre-workout STEM, you know, and like okay, so you just took 400 milligrams of caffeine at five o'clock you go to bed at eight. I wonder why you know, that's that's gonna be an issue and then In meditation or finding a way to become aware or use your own heart rate and Pay attention to biophobic back to your body's giving you you can you can literally Bring yourself down from a highly excited excited state very very quickly once you become good at doing so So Brett there's tons of breath work techniques can be applied. That's what I use even Yeah, you've had to you have because I mean the thing that's interesting about your situation I get it we talked about this is that That sort of hyperreactivity that you were living in was was was I think at least partly secondary to the fact that everything was so much more difficult Because as you're breathing difficulties and the effects of Having COVID on your body along COVID on your body means that like just walking around was like a huge Yeah, it's urgent level so high so just breathing just breathing was difficult and I think that the What you're talking about too like meditation the breathing is such a to me that would be a number one thing is and you know What I use is box breathing which is just a simple inhale for four seconds hold for four seconds Exhale for four seconds hold for four seconds. Yeah, and you can find cool little memes It or not memes but like little You know animated pictures online to look at and I keep one of those on my phone and Special forces you mentioned they do use that stuff because they can't have an adrenaline dump when they're about to like bust into a room and you know Take everybody out or whatever You know, so they have to be able to stay calm and it literally will it's kind of like a hard reboot to your system And Victoria suggests is using that first thing in the morning and then to basically like set your day and then to use it whenever Needed and I've done it like in the middle of work. I just like hey pull down a second I need to stop and do this and like after two rounds which is literally under a minute I'm in a different place and it like you can feel yourself deregulate like down regulated Apple watch reminders you can get that all I'll do that. Yeah, yeah Mine gives me a little reminder in German to take a little time, you know and have do some breath work and I think the first thing We always want to think of and it kind of like referencing earlier to like you know wanting to look we want drugs You know we want it like what do I take to do this? Yeah, it truly is like in the walkers. Yeah, we can we can do this ourselves. We really can Absolutely there in there. Yogi's that can almost get their heart to stop Yeah, you know Just by just by learning how to control their auto auto non nervous system I have a ton of respect for that I don't have the patience or the interest to to do that you know I mean, but the box breathing is like I don't have to learn anything I just follow the thing. I just do that. You know I follow a plan and simple simple is that 16 seconds later I've gotten through one round and it's made a difference like oh, okay Literally is like a hard reboot to the computer There was just I mean, I like this is direct evidence that just stopping and Bring yourself from any outside responsibilities can massively impact Your mental mental state was when I was in graduate school graduate students are the guinea pigs for Studies when they're doing like pilot work. Yeah, and One of our buddies was me and Chris Gregory is actually his name. We were doing this for another graduate student who wanted to measure Cardiovascular drift and e-pock and some of the things use of endurance athlete. So we we had to do a ton of these Like like 10 or 12 minutes. Maybe it was like 10 to 12 minutes maximum exertion cycle About cycling about it's on a cycler gommeter So we figured our VHU max and he test that several times and then he put the workload so that it was hard and like you couldn't go past 12 minutes You just couldn't maintain the workload like you could just barely get the 10 so it's like it was like I wouldn't say it's same, but you know how Tom Plats would do like he'd throw a tune a quarter on the squat bar So the lower goes and he'd squat for 10 minutes with kitchen timer. Yeah, it's kind of like that Like you get a heavy workload and like oh fuck here we go and it was just like you're just going as hard You can until you slowly like eight minutes you're just grinding to a stop These were just absolutely brutal Mean like a 30 second win gate those are hard because living you got this is like it's like really really hard at the beginning Like eight out of ten and then it's just like gradually creates up to ten until eventually like that's it you're gone So we had to do multiple trials with that we had to do one where we had Electroads all over our legs to measure activity and he had a He we had an rectal thermometer in and the softest you'll thermometer in so God both ends measuring body temperature Meduring gases at the same time multiple trials because he wanted to gather all this information with the same same Workload the same trial and one of the trials he wanted to measure muscle activation. Okay. MRI So we went over and we did this maybe twice I can't remember At least twice maybe several times because he just had he was just using us in the guinea pigs He'd measuring changing some things like hey, you guys do it again So we go over and we get on the on the bike This is at the MRI like it's a sept because of giant magnets. So you sometimes they have those separate from everything else because the magnet will fuck up all sorts of things You can't wear any metal if you got a pacemaker it's a no-go These are powerful magnets so we get on the bike cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle Like literally heart rate is max. It's the heart rate of 200 when I get done and then you're done Okay, get the tube boom you get in there too many lie there I'm just trying to just breathe easily It's like Oh shit, okay Like max effort I would be asleep in 10 minutes No kidding no kidding absolutely it have to wake me up every single time it's because there's nothing to do you just lie there Relax so you know how people like they do it all out like a crazy squad I never do this in the gym because I don't want to fall into that place of relaxation Yeah, if I have anything else to do and I just don't want to do it like Sometimes you get a panic effect that you finish a hard set and I stay in that aggressive like I'm not done yet Yeah, if I ever get that like that's a little chip for people who have that issue Sometimes people do when you really exert yourselves yourself but some people just laid on the ground And just like you know and they just roll in all over the place Yeah, you can really very rapidly get into a relaxed place and I wasn't trying to like you know Okay, you know, get in the lotus position of relying it lying a little tube, you know, yeah, and the MRI thing It's like it's making its noise the magnet was going back and forth Like there's no music there was no breath intentional breath work. It was just all you got to do now is lying the tube and don't move He's lie there and just just try to let your breath just do what it naturally will Don't try to hold it. We try to control it. You're saying you're saying finding a way to basically you're saying take away Take away any like need basically be in the present not worrying about Give yourself some type of moment whether it be lying in a tube or something else where you know Cardios kind of been that way for me in that I've I've told myself like okay You know, I can't go do I can't be on the computer doing this. I can't be doing that I'm gonna spend this time on the treadmill that is a very downregard even though I'm doing cardio slow steady state. It is a downregulating thing for me because yeah, I am not worried about doing something else, you know Yeah, this is just You can get in sort of a bit of a flow state probably not technically, but like there's something about you know Rhythmicity This is why rhythmic dance can be cool or running like people who like to run and they just like they get into a flow state and it just It in some sort of entrainment That's what the breathing does do that can function. Yeah, what I was talking about like the sort of more of a sensory deprivation like you do on a flow tank Yeah, yeah, but you're in I because I wanted to wrap it back around to you were initially saying Doing something where you don't have like responsibilities that need to get done right now You're is what you're saying some some sort of way that's what like I said what cardio becomes for me You're in that tube. Yeah, you're you're deprived of the entire world around you You can yeah See that there's so there's a complicating factor here with with at least with training if the cardio is not not hard It's not a problem But like one thing someone's when I train legs you can get this massive epoch And so XS post exercise oxygen consumption and Some of that is related to the sympathetic activation that you get somebody should be trained so are my my heart I wasn't I didn't feel stressed I come back home But I lie there at my heart. It would just be flying and this is what not with the caffeine and take or whatever It just because I'd stressed myself so much. Yeah, there's the sympathetic nervous system just has as a residual Elevation and some of that is just because the epinephrine has a residual effect so that will last for a while But but there was certainly an epinephrine release when I was doing those we were doing a cycling Doing a cycling bounce I bet it was yeah and like people who take maps I've had you know the cage like when I ran my gym For instance I would go because I mean if one I'm in the gym then people are always coming at asking me for stuff Either I've got clients or I've got people who work at the gym and I would just go out into my car Turn on the air conditioner because my hair is on it and just lean back Put a towel or something on my eyes and just like take a 20 minute like a little cat nap and it was like I totally started a whole new day Yeah, like that just Totally checking out I got nothing to do I got no phone. It's gonna be fat me. No watch. It's gonna be fat me There's nothing happening and just free yourself so if that no imagine like you get done it's like okay It's 550 I got to be in my car by six on six clocks. I can be home at 630 because my wife's got dinner Weighty for me or whatever right I got all night work to do or whatever I got you know kids have a football game or whatever my peak That doesn't give you that come down time great and so you know Creating those patterns and those habits and this is why like some of the best like the guys who do extreme things It's like the military guys we've mentioned before They've got an a tremendous it's just they have control over over their mental state Probably naturally they do that and it's probably they've been able to build upon that through training it working on it and That's just can be just as much a part of being able to effectively integrate Go and after it in the gym into your daily schedule As being able to going after it in the in the gym let's like you go in there and you're like you're transformed into this Whatever it needs to be you're letting your rage in you're having like this completely Path Arctic experience in the gym where you're almost shading yourself and you know Telling those please what have you and then you want to be able to turn that completely off because you recover Requires that you're able to come down Yeah, so that's another skill set that could be equally as important as opposed to like you said like Imagine if you're just like that all the time you couldn't be like right If you're terrible to be around and you would never recover You'd be constantly constantly stressed when people get like constantly stressed throughout their lives You see this I've seen the so many times like Their body comps is just go to shit like absolutely Whose muscle and gain fat the same times like how does this happening? I wasn't even possible thermodynamically, but it happens so yeah I wish we knew more about his situation to know You know what what's run if you was head what he's doing Because you just have to take it on a taste-by-case basis I think yeah Yeah, and I think that everybody listening can find something to apply from this You know what I mean like I don't care what your situation is that we can all We can all do a better job at finding that that mindfulness for a moment to be able to to unplug and be able to reset and we you know We owe it to ourselves too. I think be present. I I like to spread this little little trick I might have mentioned here before I mentioned it somebody just the other day and Actually something we mentioned John Meadows and early on in the podcast You go a recording when I was talking about John It's my rule of five. It's not my rule. It's the rule. I call it the rule of five And the number is sort of the material Okay, but it's a way to be mindful and evaluate what other wise be a stressful situation and There's no right or wrong way to do this. You'll figure it out sort of depending on what's going on That might potentially be stressing you so let's say you've had it could be an incident where someone like sort of actual on the road Or you've got a business deal that's not going the right way and there's nothing you can do it just kind of that It's gonna go south So you think to yourself and Five is just an easy kind of an humble to remember. I got this I stole this from someone I don't know where I got it from which I did Well this matter what's going on now? That's upsetting we'll this matter in five seconds in five hours Five days and five weeks five months five years and it's like okay This will matter in five years I probably should be a should probably pay attention like someone's someone's choking and they might end up dying And they won't be in my life. I need to be it. It's time to be able to take action Focus yeah if it's like if it's like if it won't matter in five minutes like someone's Reject you on the road. You're not you didn't wreck your car and you didn't get hit Well matter in five minutes like why am I why am I gonna spend the next five minutes like beating on the dash and like being upset? It doesn't matter Well matter in five months No, no matter in five months. We'll matter in five five weeks. Okay. Yeah now I see I make my should I make pay attention to it a little bit But in five months. It's not that big of a deal five months. I won't even know You know, so I'll so you change your level of arousal your at level of concern and You know your approach by just running it through that. Yeah. I just do it my head like automatically now. I like that Yeah, I just like five five five seconds We're gonna do five seconds. It's like it's there's no point in being wearing them at it all right? Yeah, nothing but we get upset about stuff. It's like like you're walking your dogs and you know the dog like you know runs around you, you know, and the leash kind of trips you up and this doesn't happen to me because but like I That happens with me because I have all I three dogs and I could be like all pissed because like I got tripped up and I my Blought my flip flop is like Well that matter in five days. No, I'll get on Amazon right now and my phone and I'll order new flip flops on I'll have an Amaro I won't matter. Yeah, so whatever, you know, so you can run through that It is so helpful. It's just bringing you out of unnecessarily frustrating or excited states of mine I think at least that's a great way to close the show That's a it's a good take home tip guys. We appreciate you watching of course Check out more from Scott you can get his book be why OBB coach that's be your own bodybuilding coach Be why OBB coach dot com you can also go to Amazon get the hardcover there. I'll have links for that below Also check out his his training plan for the two training that'll be at the website You can check that out go to our sponsors to true nutrition dot com user code thinking get some additional savings Like I said at the beginning if you have any questions about any other supplements Any other flavors anything you're interested in trying to put together Please let me know because I've used a lot of their stuff over the years and and I believe in all of it I know Scott does too Skip does as well. We basically all have have been big followers and believers of true nutrition Sublement source.ca if you're in Canada check them out and We've got I didn't mention at the beginning, but we have a new sponsor for our UK people and that strong sports nutrition take check out Strauss boards.com. They've got a lot of really good health products and really good blends and stuff for for health as well as standalone products like Tudka and AC stuff like that so you guys can shop with any of these companies and it will directly help to support our programming plus Just know that those companies believe in what we're doing and so that they they support what we're doing here Also check out Patreon like I said I'm gonna do a A livestream over there. I'll probably get Victoria to hang out with me for a little bit on that But it'll just be like a little bit more low key less of like the actual podcast and more of us just hanging out in And chat and so I'll be putting that together soon. Be sure if you're on Patreon to head over there and check in Ask me some questions stuff like that guys for another episode of muscle minds with Scott Stevenson I'm Scott McNally and we will see you soon. Thanks a lot Scott as always

Hey, what's up guys? So on the last episode of Muslimines, we talked all about the central nervous system. We learned how as you get stronger, your central nervous system becomes more resilient, it helps you to be able to push heavier loads and increase your intensity in your training. Today we're going to talk about the flip side of that coin and how as body builders, it's important that as we get stronger that we're using our muscle and not our central nervous system to move the weight. Scott has a bunch of charts, graphs, and studies and we are going to dig into the science as usual, today on Muslimines. What's up guys? Welcome back to Muslimines, we Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McDelio, over programming is brought to you by True Nutrition. And today we are going to dive back into a central nervous system adaptation from training. And what did you say here, Scott? This is like applying central nervous system, at training adaptations to produce muscle growth. Yeah, it sort of gives some more specific context to things we talked about last time, like all this stuff related to the central nervous system. But specifically, just some like, none of this is there's more update information, but this is from all these are taken from a georetical that a guy named Digby Sale put out a long while ago. It's hard to study these things in the context of resistance exercise and training, but it's some basic ideas. And here's the overall context, it's really kind of important. And I have actually a lot more in a particular talk that I give. On the Mind Muscle Connection. And the main theme is that our bodies and our nervous system, particular have been engineered through nature, through our biology, through evolution, to find the most economical, quote-efficient way to lift loads and to produce movement. So, it's a huge investment in just making them muscle bigger when you can, obviously get better performance just by changing how you drive it. Yes. How the nervous system activates it. We see that with that first thing that I mentioned, like right at the beginning, I think of the last podcast we did was where if you look at the extent to which muscle strength goes up in a newbie, you can double your strength in a matter of half a year, easily, for many people, but you have a double your muscle mass. So, that's the nervous system. And the nervous system is it's so much easier to get more skillful in a certain way. Oh, even though you wouldn't consider these like skilled movements, just picking something straight up. But obviously like Olympic lifts, squats, you know, multi-joint movements, due in tail, a good amount of skill, but there's actually underneath what's going on. All sorts of very important things that are adaptations that allow you to get so much stronger. We're not going to go into it. Like a ton of those, we can if people have questions or if you do, well, I'll expound upon some of the ideas. But like even things like you look in the brain at the parts of the motor areas that are involved with sending signals down to the muscles. During a concentric burst, the eccentric movement. So when you lift burst, you load different areas of the brain is activated. Turn on and off for each aspect of those. No kidding, turned on and off. So I'm thinking, I think of things being turned on, but I wouldn't think of other areas being turned off, but it does make sense. I mean, they're different patterns. They require substantially different amounts of muscle mass being activated. Concentrics, you're much weaker relative to the eccentric. And that's a function of speed. So the faster movement, the less amount of force you can produce, concentrically, whereas, eccentricly, you can produce more force than you can voluntarily. And it's pretty much an absolute certainty that some of that, that you have some level of inhibition during an eccentric movement, even maxile eccentric. There's probably some inhibition EMG suggests that the amount of force that most people can produce during maximum lengthening contractions when you get in an isochinetic machine, for instance, and you force as you down on any extension or whatever thing. You just can't produce as much force relative to the muscle that's there than you can when you force that muscle to contract with electroslimulation. Your brain, your nervous system, the inhibitory influences are definitely there to protect you from just tearing the muscle. Yeah. So to lift a load, let's say, let's say I had a 20 pound dumbbell here and I curled it up. If I still activated a sin amount of muscle, that dumbbell would never go down, unless eventually I had to teagull and I just wouldn't be able to hold it up. But assuming when we take the teagull out of the picture, you lift something up, and then to lower it, you have to activate less muscle. Yeah. You have to turn off some of those neurons. The data is kind of mixed as to what the population is of the neurons used to lift versus low. Some people have suggested that there's even sort of a different sub-population of neurons. Like you might use more type-tools, maybe, but probably not. There's some data suggesting that when lowering things, some of that's probably a function of training. But in a very basic level, just lifting and lowering involves a totally different activation pattern. It's like forward and reverse on your car. Yeah. That's kind of what you're doing. Like, you think about it. Like, if something in the mechanism of your car that allows you to go forward and backward, we're to grow by virtue of driving really fast and driving back harder than just keeping driving over the theme spot over and over, which is what we do. We lift and lower away repeatedly. Then you can see that there's a totally different things. Putting the car in drivers, putting it in reverse, is a complete change in the basic function of the vehicle. Certainly, a change in direction. So neurologically, it's completely different. So anyway, the point of that, that's just one little piece that shows you like there's so much involved with the nervous system that's going to step in and make it such that, you know, if we can just make a nervous system adjustment in skill or motivated activation pattern, firing rate or they call it rate coding sometime, sometimes, then that's a much simpler thing to do, you know, then to make the muscle bigger. It's sort of like, you want to drive faster? Well, for a given level of effort or given level of foot pedal pressure on your accelerator, well, you'll just press the accelerator a little bit more. That's like a nervous system adaptation. Very simple one to do. Or you could go out and get a bigger engine. That just runs at a faster speed for a given RPMs and signal from the foot pedal. That's a huge pain in the ass when the most immediate thing you can do is simply get better at learning how to drive faster, which just means pressing on the accelerator more. Yeah. So our whole system is set up to be able to make those adjustments by changing the nervous system, because there's so many points of flexibility in neural plasticity that are available there, which don't require the outlay of energy that comes with building muscle, which is a huge, you know, everything I've talked about with changing the architecture of the style, the satellite cells and the amount of food you have to eat and make it sure enough protein available and rest. And like that's a giant deal like, who's ever changed an engine block? I haven't, but it's a big fucking deal to change the engine into vehicle, you know? They did it to my F350. It took a while. I got a brand new engine in there after I blew out the other one. Yeah, remember? That's a big, frigging deal, you know, easier just to drive a little with a little more accelerator. Yeah. And that's what the nervous system is. So, so the trick then is, and this is why I want to just talk about this for a while, I've let people kind of get an understanding for how good the nervous system is with that, is to, is to make sure that you're doing things that put the stress on the muscle, especially in the context of progressive overload. Because that's the thing, as you probably know, anyone who's done progressive overload, you just look at the log book and you just want to beat that damn log book. And you can beat those reps just by going faster, getting sloppy, there's a million ways to do it. But that doesn't necessarily mean that you provide it more stress and stimulus for the muscle. And the other side of the coin is that doesn't necessarily mean that those increases that you see in reps or load in the log book, represent more muscle that you gain. There may be that you just got sloppy or with your form or you went faster or something like that. Throughout an anecdote, which is was pretty fascinating. I'll never forget this. I think I've been mentioning this on this podcast before, but long time ago, like literally almost, gosh. This was over, this is 25 years ago, maybe. I was in grad school. I was training people in the morning at a gym. And I had a guy come in and he and his dad both came in. And his dad had worked to own the construction company. He was a contractor. He'd work construction as entire life. And you could tell he's a rugged guy. Just strong and had to be strong to do what he'd done. It's not also work construction. I think his son, maybe, was now sort of more on the administrative side. So they wanted to start training. The dad had work construction. Now he's not doing that kind of thing. He's like, I'm getting a little bit fat now. So I'm not working. And we got a business gotten bigger. So they wanted to find a trainer and start exercising. And we're just starting, I'm just giving them basic stuff, like trying to show them how to do things. And I'm noticing with the dad that he has, everything we're starting to do, he has an inability to just activate the target muscle. He wants to use as much muscles as he possibly can. Because that's exactly what you want to do when you're on a job site. Yeah. You know, if you're going to go pick something up, you don't, you know, you don't stand up upright and try to do like a strict curl with it. Great. You can throw your legs, not your little back as much as you can. And you gauge much muscle mass. You use momentum. You don't get things moving. You dynamically move them. If you've got to throw some sandbags up to the back of your pickup truck, you don't squat down and stand up with them. And then do a strict curl and put them on like some kind of a robot and assembly lines. You exert the least amount of energy possible. Yeah. So his nervous system, he had done so many tens, maybe hundreds, thousands of repetitions of that kind of shit through the course of his life that it was really weird. It was like totally foreign to try to do it any differently. Similar probably like a power lifter who comes to bodybuilding. That's exactly the difference that I talk about being at that talk is that power lifting the ideas that you can gauge as much muscle mass as you can to do the top of the big three lifts in a way that, you know, matches whatever the standard is, you know, the correct depth and everything else. You want to gauge everything, everything available because that gives you more driving force. You're not trying to like just use your pecks to do a bench press. No, they're all. It's completely opposite. You want to use everything possible. You know, people talk about hip and leg drive on a bench press. Yeah. You know, as long as you're not butts not coming off the bench and whatever things are illegal in, you know, your federation, do it. You just matters that the weight moves from point A to point B, where it's bodybuilding is really pretty much the opposite. In most cases, especially isolation exercises, you're trying to like get the other muscles out of the, except with one exception, which we can talk about too because this is something I want to maybe do a whole podcast on it, but definitely need to do a post on, on sloppy form. And I've talked about it here before, but how that actually makes sense in terms of producing muscle growth, some slop in your form. Okay. Yeah, that would be a good, that would be a fun topic. We should do that. It's, I mentioned it with a no one seems to get this and it's just like it's just, it's, yeah, it's definitely one of my hobby horses, I guess you might say, it's where I talk to those. All right. Well, I'll make no to that one. Yeah. So with this older guy though, so he's doing everything like this, I'm like, let's just do some curls. I said, actually, let's just do some dumbbell concentration curls. Okay. So, you know, we get down, block off your elbow and the inner part of your knee and you've got the dumbbell there and your hunker down. All I want to do is just see movement at your elbow joint, just like pure, and I, well, sometimes let's say to people imagine, like if you're a bit in a like Walt Disney world, I think they have one of those rides where it's like the Pirates cover, some shit. You hit it on a log ride, thing you put through the water and like they have all the pirates in the ghost and those sorts of things and like the first pirates like, welcome to Walt Disney World. And it's just like, you know, one joint is moving like nothing else is completely, you know, not authentic for a human, you can tell it's just purely robotic. That's what I'm saying. Just be like one of those, one of those really cheap robots. I just want to see movement in the one joint, nothing else. So he's hunker down, I can't really kind of see me here in the video, but he's hunker down and he's curling up and he's pulling his shoulder down. That and he's arching his back and I'm like, no, don't do that. And literally, I had, I put my arms around, he showed us, I don't, I don't want your shoulder to bounce into my hands. I want your shoulder to stay right where it is. Movement only at this elbow joint. He could not do it. Holy shit. Yeah. He literally, because because that's not how you would pick, you know, you throw some body in English, English into it. That's exactly what that's what you see people do when they're doing cheat curls. Yeah. He couldn't not do a cheat curl, so to speak, because he had just been programmed for so long. So that's a highly evolved in a certain way, nervous system, the loud that guy to do heavy manual labor for like decades and not be completely broken down. Just figured out how to do it the right way. And I had some guys come out, help me move, actually, some of my gym equipment. There was a guy who was like the veteran of the leader of the group. And he was, he was, he was leased in his mid late 40s and actually kind of a smaller dude, really, really skinny. Like, his body, that was like, zulch. Yeah. Because it's just working all the time. It's really kind of interesting talking to them. He outworked all these dudes. Yeah. But he just, but you could just see how he moved. He was like, it was like, artistry emotionally, it's for me in watching him, picking up all, I'm like, I knew how much that shit made because I moved it myself several times. And I'm like, I'm just not moving this one again. It goes worth my while and instead it's spending three days to have these guys do it three hours. And it's like the guy had just all these really highly evolved motor programs. But he was literally skinny as a rail. He was probably, I don't know, maybe my height and 110 pounds. Holy crap. It really, really thin. If you would think he was, had like, he was very bright and very animated. Like he was a healthy guy. Tell that you could be, you just drink gatorade most of the time all day long. I think he might have been on meth. I think he might have been on meth, Scott. I think you're making a mistake about the healthy thing here. Maybe, I don't know. I don't know. Maybe he could have been. He's been Florida. I talked to him because we went and picked it up and moved things over. He didn't seem like he was on meth. And he'd been doing this a long time. Most meth addicts wouldn't last like decades. Good point. Good point. Yeah. I mean, you got about six to nine months running that speed if you're on meth. How many teeth did he do? But he did see. Say what? Not that. I'm sorry. Go ahead. You say how many teeth did he have? Yeah. No. That's the thing. He was a really bright, vibrant guy. Yeah. That's why I kind of remember him. And I watched, you know, and he's like, he's like, a bit, you think you could do this. I'm like, I have no, I have no. No, I'm not delusional all. There's no way. I like the boost shit around that thing. But you guys would just wreck me. I'd be just, I'd be totally broken down after a week of it. And as you probably had lots of big guys come to you, think they can just do this shit. No problem. It's like all the time. We just eat them up and spit them out. I'm like, I know you do. So he was, actually, this is a really good example. I hadn't plan on talking about. But he was a great example of someone who was able to move really, really heavy loads. But with great efficiency or economy on a regular basis, all day long. So a huge volume of heavy lifting, not resistance exercise like in the gym. But huge volume of heavy lifting on a daily basis without nutritional support. And a highly evolved set of neural programs that allowed him to know how to pick things up. And he would like, someone was, he knew how to use a foreclip. He knew how to use the dollies that they had, carpet dolly, whatever dolly. But he also was just really good at picking things up. You could just see how he just knew how to pick the right leverages in the right angle. So that's what people do on a leg press. You show that video and people will know that you can move more weight if you don't go as deep on a leg press. Well, the purpose on the leg press and there's a study that just came out. I think I saw it through mass. I didn't read it all, but because I subscribed to their newsletter. It's a good news for the newsletter, it's not a fact. But they showed increases in glute. And I believe also hamstring size as well as quad with deep squatting, whereas only the shallower squatting, maybe it was 90 degrees, but it wasn't like asked to grasp, only produces produce growth in the quads. So most of the people want to squat for their entire leg. The entire, you know, the glutes and the thigh muskature. That's what happened with the deep squatting. But you know you can move more weight and get more reps with shallower squats. And obviously, if that's all you're looking for. So that very obvious notion, which people call other people out on for all the time, and the squatting inches of mile, as they say, is the same thing that applies that a much more nuanced level that we're not even totally aware of, because of all these things that are sort of programmed into our brain in terms of neural activation. So anyway, let's see which figure makes sense for real, figure, and I can kind of talk people through this a lot of this is just from one study. I agree. I have a mile, I downloaded them from you in order here. So I have the first second, third, fourth, and fifth one here. That first one with the trained arm. Yep, got it. And that's a nice one. That shows a couple of different things at once. Okay, that one is up. So that shows, that's just, this is all from a viewer to call, like find the original. But that shows a bilateral training study where you see a couple things happen. They trained one arm, sort of unilateral training. So they trained one arm, and the other arm was not trained. So if you look across at the bar graphs, they're a strength at the very top. You've got a greater strength in the trained arm, but this also commonly noted cross-training effect was apparent there in strength as well. So the untrained arm on the right actually increased in strength. And that wasn't trained. So the nervous, this is a really, really common cross-training effect called most of the time. And this is why people will say, hey, you should, in order to maintain strength in an arm that's been casted or side of your body that's been injured in some reason that you can't train or it's going to mobilize, train the good side. I've heard that. Yeah. Yeah. This is the main rationale for that is that you maintain the neurological adaptations that are contribute to your strength in doing so through the of this cross-training effect. You could see, actually, if you look at the activation level, this is the third bar graph down. This is at max activation. You see, this is just a rough thing. It's probably a root mean square, EMG measurement, just a generic level of total electrical activity, maximal electrical activity. So the rough, raw neural input descending from the brain to the biceps, the elbow flexors in this case. I think it was, is greater because not in the untrained arm because the other arm was being trained. So activation levels have gone up. So you mean you can maintain those neurological adaptations by training a good side and it will still carry over across over to the other side. So you can see over the course of the training there was about a 10% let's maybe 8% increase in cross-sectional area from the trained arm which was on the left. And then if they relish up the, so here's what's kind of interesting. If you relish the act amount of activation during a max effort, relative to the force that was produced, that actually went down. So something about the activation was more coordinated such that the amount of activation produced, the electrical activity in general produced, the given amount of force was reduced. And those are some of the deeper aspects of neural adaptations that are really pretty cool. We probably don't need to get into, I don't want to get too far off top of that. But you basically get better, or logically speaking, at producing more force as well as you produce, you don't have to expend as much activation energy. You become more skilled which is what's represented there in that amount of activation for a given amount of force. So, each amount of force is actually also relatively easier because of the neurological adaptations as well as the fact that in this case, because they're testing during the movement that they actually trained with, there's more muscle mass there. Okay. So you would expect, if you say amount of activation with the bigger muscle, we'll just give you more force. So that would produce that activation relative to force value. So there's two things that are going on there. One, nervous system is adapted, it's figured out how to be more energetically efficient in terms of sending the neural impulses down to produce amount of force. And now you have a bigger motor in the way of having a bigger muscle. So you see that. Okay. So, and that's like, that's a percent change of over 30 percent or 20 percent in the untrained arm. So that's pretty pretty substantial in terms of just EMG. Our sorry, sorry, strength. Whereas the cross-sectional area went up like 8 percent. So here we're talking about a four-fold greater increase in strength relative to the increase in cross-sectional area. Okay. So you want to talk like real roughly. It's like only one fifth of your strength gains could be explained by increase in cross-sectional area. And increase by muscle, you're saying. Yeah, more muscle. Yeah. Okay. That makes sense, I guess. If you get, I mean, it takes, you have to get a lot stronger for a long time before you see a muscle change. And you got that guy who was the skinny dude who was lifting a lot but it didn't show up as muscle for him. He may, he probably had genetics be kind of thin. Yeah. Yeah. Perfect. You want to use that term. He was an eating to support. He was doing anything to try to get bigger. In fact, here's the thing. And in his case, everyone's got a different genetic programming but given what he was doing, having that phenotype, having a body that's like that because he was really moved pretty quickly too. And he moved all day long. So he actually had sort of a strength endurance type of physical load that he was presented with, you know, probably five out of seven days out of the week. Yeah. So rather than rather than the body saying, okay, well let's, let's do this. You're picking up really heavy shit. Let's, you know, put on 50 pounds of muscle that you didn't have to carry around with you. Mm-hmm. Which is dead weight. Or like half, like I'd say you half of your time is going back to get the next load. Mm-hmm. So 50 percent of the time you're just dragging the dead weight around, then you have to eat to accommodate all of that. Well, he was an eating to accommodate all of that. I don't, I think you literally, which is drinking gator. A lot of those guys, you know, who work, especially here in Florida with show-hottle, you want to do with get fluids in. Yeah. You're not, you're not trying to eat a big meal, man. You know, you get something to breakfast maybe, and then you should enjoy a meal with you at home. So that was a really, that was a very smart way for his system to adapt. Obviously, he knew how to move the weights around. His nervous system had adapted in a way that made it, he made him really, really proficient at doing all that. So we're trying to hack the system and basically avoid becoming proficient to certain degree. But at the same time, use the loads that come with progressive overload as a way to stimulate and send that specific signal that we're not, there's going to be no neural adaptations that are involved here with making this easier to do. We're going to continue to stress the muscle in a way that really sort of sends the signals, like, okay, we're going to have to get bigger because that's just the nature of the beasts. There's no way around it. And plus there's plenty of traditional enabalism supplements or super supplements just the port that kind of kind of grow. So how do we do that? That's the question. That's the question. Okay. I got to come more things. So this is what's interesting here. So let's throw up. We can skip this. The train arm and train arm with the two plots. We'll skip that. Okay. We'll go to the one that has the guy at the top sort of little squatting figure got him. He's up. So this is a study where they trained individuals using a squat. And they increased muscle size in the quads by about 10% I believe it was. I have the, there you go. Just popped up. I have the, the actual original study here. I shouldn't, shouldn't put that in there. So here's the interesting thing. So they, they trained for, how long it was. I could look at it. Standard training regime increased in squat one rep max was about 70% pretty substantial. But that's all they did to increase to train. They didn't do, they weren't doing leg presses. They weren't doing any extensions. They were just squatting. So when they tested one rep max on the squat, we went up quite a bit. Yeah. Fortunately, they didn't make any EMG measurements on the squat or elsewhere. But they did do it on the extension. I'll get to that in just a second. Okay. So, what's the compound movement you're driving with your hips and your knees? So they also tested strength on leg press. Because they had that there in the lab. A lot of times, let's just test all the shit they have there. Yeah. And you got some strength gains in the leg press. But they didn't train with that leg press. So there was a carryover. So this shows very distinctly the specificity of training principle. Is that if you's trained to get stronger or, or, or bigger using squats, you're going to get stronger during squatting movements. And it's going to be greatest during the particular movement that you employ. Makes sense. You try to take take that strength and apply it to a leg press. It's pretty close. You only get about half the strength gains in this particular study. They didn't train the leg press. But it's, but it's not two different terms of the segments being a compound movement, etc. Now remember, they've got it by bigger quad. So they put them on an e-extension and also did a, a, a maximum voluntary contraction. So that's an isometric. And they didn't do any of those in their training. But it's just an e-extension. You just sit there. They strap you in. You say kick out your knee as hard as you can. They got bigger quads. 10% is substantial. You'll see that. That's visible. Yeah. Like that's a before and after you'd post, you know, on social media. I'll take that leg. Yeah, that's pretty damn pretty good. No increase in strength. Nothing. No increase on the leg extension, huge increase in the squat, which they trained. Some increase on the leg press, which they did not train, no increase on the leg extension. That's a prize, doesn't mean I guess. No carry over. Yeah, one. Wow. Yep. The EMG actually went down a little bit. So they kind of speculated to what could that possibly be. Literally there there, there, every, I mean, there's a little bit of a blip there. But it wasn't significant. Basically within measurement error. They got nothing. Wow. There's a couple of things that could happen. Well, first of all, that's totally non-specific to how they trained. So in fact, if you think about it, when you're training and doing the squat, and this is another kind of a mind-fuck for people who haven't thought about it before, but you're activating both your hamstrings and your quads simultaneously. Obviously. Right? So you've got something going on, you know, at your hamstring, for instance, and even in your rectus or Morris, but in your hamstring, particularly, it's called Lumbar's Paradox, because if anyone who's, if anyone who's, well, well, this is sitting down, they can, they can think about this. So when you stand up from a seated position, at your hip joint, you're extending at the hip. Right? Hip extension. So that's your hamstrings, which crossed both the hip and the knee. And your hamstrings are doing a concentric contraction. So they're shortening, right? Yeah. And they're contracting. We know this. You can feel it when you stand up. And but your hamstrings also cross the knee. So what kind of contraction is being produced when you consider the hamstrings, and the knee when you're extending at the knee, while the hamstrings are contracting? Are they getting shorter or getting longer thinking about just the knee? The hamstring? Uh-huh. They're contracting, but the knee is extending, not flexing. They would be getting longer. Yes. So what's going on with the hamstrings? They're shortening relative to the hip, and extending relative to the knee. Yeah. The paradox. Yeah. Okay. I guess it's a little bit more paradox. Yeah. So that's a translation of angular momentum that happens in bi-articular muscles. They sort of function to bring about like, you take some of the torque that's produced by the glutes and the hip extensors, and they get translated into the knee, and it's basically a bi-bicanical phenomenon that's really pretty cool, that you see in like jumping and running muscles. So anyway, the reason I bring that up is that now you go from squatting, or even leg pressing, where you've got hamstrings and quads being activated, and a coordinated manner during these movements, like maybe not changing the length of much in the hamstrings, but definitely being activated, the quads are obviously shortening and lengthening. We're not thinking about the directions for more so now, because that's also a bi-articular, but the other three quad muscles are doing concentric at eccentric contractions. So that's how you train, and now when you come and sit down on a knee extension, and you just try to do a knee extension, what the hell your hamstrings supposed to do? I see. Nothing, right? Because they're not needed, but you will have co-contraction when you do that. But then they demonstrate that when they, you know, you bring people in, you say just do a knee extension, their hamstrings will fire up, so that could have been reducing the force, especially because the way they trained required both hamstring and quads contraction the same time or co-contraction. So at any rate, there was no strength gain there on the, on the, on the knee extension at all. Even though there was muscle-sized gain. So let me see if anything else you're worth looking into before I dig in to kind of translate some of this stuff in what it really means. Yeah, let's go to, we can come back to those that we need to. Let's go to the last, the last one that shows a drop jump. All right, got it. Just talk about this briefly a little bit. So this shows, remember I talked about inhibition and dis inhibition last time. Yes, for like, those max efforts and how it's like, Jordan is someone who shakes a lot, sometimes that is max effort lifts. That'll happen to people when they're pushing really, really hard. So this figure, let me take a look at it here so I can talk through it. Shows, this is after people had been trained doing drop jumps, okay? Which is a very ballistic movement. So basically, if you look at what's going on in the planar flexors, link your gastrochlor solius, you jump off a box and you bounce off the floor and you get what's called a, it's a stretch shortening cycle and the nervous system hopefully can harness some of that energy and you produce actually an eccentric contraction. At the calf muscle where the Achilles tendon is, I may have mentioned this last time too, that big one at Achilles tendon actually is a giant spring and you load up that spring with tension so that after you hit the ground and you try to jump back up, that tension that's produced, that's in the spring of the Achilles tendon can be harnessed to produce planar flexion to increase the jump that you get. So you get a stretch shortening so you stretch the muscle out in some degree when you land and then it shortens right afterwards and that's basically using the muscle as a rubber band to take advantage of the connected tissue pieces that are in the muscle. The series elastic components as people call them to, as a rubber band to harness the elastic energy and then use that recoil to propel back. So that happens every time we run for instance. That's one of the reasons probably explains at least why you see a lot of the best sprinters in the world. They don't have gigantic calves like you do. They don't because they don't need them. The calf muscle is not there to necessarily drive maximal fast propulsion during a sprint. You just need to have enough muscle to, and having a big tendon is good enough muscle to be able to hold tend to allow that tend to stretch out and gather the elastic energy that then used on the recoil to spring forward during the planar flexion and the drive phase of the running gate. So you don't need a bunch of muscle mass, which you want is a bigger spring. The bigger the spring, the better, the bigger the spring, the smaller the muscle. So you see a lot of really good sprinters who have very small calves. So that's what's going on there. Here's what's happening neurologically. So when you have someone who's untrained, which is that top plot there, that's an EMG, that's electrical activity. That trace shows what happens when they jump off the box and then when they hit in the top trace, you see where it says inhibition there. When you hit the ground and under high force, you start to stretch out that muscle, those inhibitory influences. The Golgi tendon organs come into play and they reduce muscle force as a protective mechanism. And if you, this is what happens to me every time I jump down off of anything. Every jump down off of like, for me it's like anything or about 12 inches, hit the ground and it's just a thud. Yes. You're like, oh, you know, that's that's inhibition. If you're not having any activation of the muscle to create harness some of that energy in the tendons and in the series, it's a lot to come on into the muscle. So you just thought it just like bone on concrete or whatever it's pretty much with a thin layer of shoe sole in between you. So you get inhibition because you're not used to that. And it's like better to sort of crumble and fall than stay upright and produce tensions that are dangerous to the muscle and tear something. I see when you land that hard. Unless you start training, so normally you have inhibition and people think can sort of conceptually grasp that because like that happens every time I step, even off like a high step, it'll feel that way. Whereas someone who's trained will have something else happen. So when they hit the ground, you see the electroactivity increases during that time when they're on the ground before they spring back up after the fox jumps. And that's because you want to have increase activity in the muscle. So the muscle holds tight so the tendon can stretch out. So you want the muscle muscular pieces of muscle all the way through the whole kinetic change from the across the ankle and the knee and the hip to all be nice and solid so that you can use that elastic energy because that's free. It's just coming from gravity essentially and harness that like a rubber ball and bounce back up. In fact, people who get really good at drop jumps like this. This you see this like volleyball players or basketball players or athletes who do a lot of these because being able to jump high receivers, you'll catch a ball with a heavy ball. They can actually do like a three foot drop or even like five or six feet. They can jump off a box that's five feet and end up jumping onto something that's 16 high. They're actually they can harness like almost pretty much all of the energy that comes from the drop and then add to what they're on muscular energy and go even higher. And you see that in people who do a lot of plyometric it's really pretty cool. This is how bad acid nervous system is. People will get better at figuring out how to harness that energy. So you'll have athlete too, you know, when you give them a three foot drop jump they can maybe jump but the highest thing can get after that is four feet. Okay. I'm just making up numbers. These may be off. So then you say, well let's jump into three and a half and then when they then they can get four feet, you know, five inches, you go to four feet and they can get, you know, almost five feet. And the higher you you give them the more energy input you give them from the actual drop, the more their nervous system because it's so fine tune you can harness that as elastic energy and translate it into the hop that they get back up onto the next box. Yeah. Okay. So they couldn't get to four feet with or five feet let's say with the three foot box, which you give them a four foot box that gives them extra drop energy. Yeah. So to speak, to harness for the rebound to get back up onto the next box. So that's a bad acid nervous system, right? Yeah. It's literally like bigger that out, whereas most of us I jump off with something three feet not just open, get that a break. It's a big, you know, walk away. Yeah. Crossing my fingers, you know, and you know, thank my lucky stars. So what happens then and this is something. So this applies, this will be the first thing we can kind of apply to progressive overload as you're moving along your path of trying to get stronger and use your logbook as a guide to drive the stimulus for muscle growth is that when you when you're when you're lifting and you're doing movements to become somewhat ballistic or with somewhat of a bounce at the bottom like people will do on a bench press or variety of movements, you're harnessing a stretch shortening like the sum of degree. Okay. And on the bench press, especially I've seen people who do bench presses and literally you can see the bar like creating this massive indentation in their chest. Oh yeah. You can see the recoil in their rib cage. Oh, the muskna chair is like all bent down. It looks like do you know you made a rubber? It's like they're do the experiment in like science class. We take like a turkey bone. You put it in vinegar. No, leaches out all the minerals. Okay. You know you can do that. You take a turkey bone and put it like the wishbone. You drop it in vinegar. At least out all the calcium phosphate and the bone mineralization. Then you have just the connect petitioner that just really rubbery thing. Weird. That's what it's kind of cool. Yeah, it's very weird. It's like, look, that's kind of a funky looking bone. So people can do that if they want. It's this great thing for kids like it's a nice little science experiment. But you see people who do bench press in some times. Not that often anymore, but who's literally their tripped cages look like that. Like dude, you look like you're you know you're rib cage. Nothing but cartilage because you're just sink in. That strength that they get from that bounce is part of what we're seeing here in a nervous system that's learned how to make use of a stretch sorting cycle in the muskna chair as well as with the bar bounce off the chest and all these other skill-related things that actually increase performance so they can get a heavier weight back up to the starting point. But that's because the nervous system is figured out how to do that. Not so much because they have a larger muscle mass in order to drive that. And I have a little bit of a caveat to that to some degree because you're stronger on an eccentric than you are on a concentric. But so there's sort of a a gray zone here where being somewhat ballistic on some movements makes sense to accommodate those differences in strength. That's the topic for the next podcast on sloppy form. But when you're bouncing things and you can tell you're bouncing things that's making use of a stretch shortening cycle for some degree which is the nervous system. And remember the nervous system is smart and shit. It'll figure out how to how to allow you to get stronger and better in the gym unless you disallow all that and keep your form as consistent as you possibly can. So rep tempo is an obvious one with something like someone has gotten sloppy on a bench or doing a pause where you eliminate the stretch shortening. So you put like, if you're doing your rep counts, you put make that a zero count or even a one count with the pause. Like people sometimes do they'll redo a reset on a dead lift rather than bouncing off the floor. I do that kind of thing. That's yeah. I do that with my bench press too. Especially now that I have my bar with the shoulder-saver pad. I can bring the bar right down to my chest, kind of reset it and then drive, you know, right back down same thing. Right. So is this a good thing or a bad thing? I'm not putting the pieces together in my head here. So it's someone starts off and they've got a little very little stretch shortening cycle involved. And over the course of six months, let's say they continue to bench press or whatever movements they're using were a stretch or a bounce or that sort of stretch shortening cycle like but could be like a full dead or even like dead lifting a rack dead where you bounce the bar off of the supports. Yeah. Anything you get this sort of raffa like bounce from the bottom from the from the from the changeover from the eccentric to the concentric and that's very rapid. That is got some component that's a stretch shortening cycle which is a which is a very savvy way for your nervous system to get that weight moving from an eccentric lowering direction vector back in the other way. And that's just the nervous system doing that. So you could go from not being very good at that and not employing that at day zero of your training blast or your offseason to six months later you've gotten pretty a depth at stretch shortening and having as we see in that last figure you put up facilitation rather than inhibition and what you're seeing in the log book isn't representative of muscle growth. It's representative of a neurological adaptation. I see. Yeah. So that's the whole trick is you don't want the log book to represent that. You want the log book to represent muscle growth to the impossibly can't. It's almost impossible to do that completely. Yeah. Just because it's going to happen even with you know you take a new exercise you keep the rep time for the same. You're still going to have nervous system adaptations. You know that that are going to occur below the strength gain to happen. If you're especially if you're newbie or it's an exercise you've never done before or you're coming back to even if you use a metronome you know you're still going to have activate you're going to still have some neurological and even some other morphological things that will happen that are allowing for those strength improvements or those performance improvements that aren't muscle growth. Okay. So here's what I'm getting then. When I brought this question to you and the prevalic past episode I was I was looking at how this adaptation of central nervous system allows us to dig further, get further into our sets and our reps and be able to handle kind of like more intensity and grind out you know more reps than we might have been able to handle previous years ago. Bonsigo whatever I was seeing this as the positive aspects of this what you're telling us is that the central nervous system because it can get stronger than the amount of muscle you're gaining that it could be a bad thing really that it could a strong central nervous system could be could be overriding the muscle that like you may be getting stronger but it could be your central nervous system getting stronger not that your muscles getting bigger. Well yeah the central nervous something's happening the central nervous system that it's going to go getting stronger but it's getting more depth at moving those loads. Yeah you're getting stronger your performance is better but not because the muscle is like this got bigger but because the central nervous system has developed a better strategy for lifting the weight. Yeah and some of that could be like you know that like digging in and learning how to grind and learning how to psych up and push yourself for many many years and I still have this tendency to do this I will get so riled up and over stimulated I'm like there's an invertee you between performance and arousal level you know you know arousal and you're like just you you know you shit the shit the you know the porch like it's not like you're just like a horrible set like you gotta be ready yeah and then you more and more arousal eventually you know your your extra like a peak arousal level that matches what is needed for the skill aspect as well as sort of the central drive aspect so if it's a squat and let's say Ben Chow is someone who talks about this probably a lot of people have heard of and no Ben's a great guy and he's got a really really proficient squat and for him he very much needs to be very in a calm centered place I'm not trying to speak for Ben but this is what I picked up on from at least three or four times he's mentioned this on who adds podcast when he's been on he goes in and he's not like you know getting slapped around and like you know smelling salts and all this kind of stuff for him he has to find this very very specific new wants skilled groove for his squats so that he can have his best squat performance and the amount of like overall psychological arousal like you know ripper running ready to go like you know breakdown walls that's an easy thing for him that component has to be balanced for him in a certain way so for him if his arousal gets beyond that like if he tried to like you know put on a metallic and screaming yelling bang his head against the bar and get into their squat you know you think he probably fucking himself up yeah it wouldn't be optimal for him at all so your nervous system is going to have and this is what I tend to do sometimes I get to you this fun to get like all fucking crazy stupid and be you know be immediate and what happened then is I will get into the bar and I'm so aggressive with it yes that I will spell will do really wrap it my reps will be rapid yep and part of that rapidity is essentially somewhat of a stretch shortening cycle you'll see like you know if it's over had press and I come down I'm doing this one of this this thing so sort of trying to like really focus on my delts have a good mind muscle connection there I'm doing a lot of shrugging so you're coming down here and I'm shrugging shrugging the weight at that bottom part to get more reps and I'm just throwing the weight around essentially right in a very uncut full of bashing so I'm getting more reps but I got more reps but my arousal level was so high that I didn't keep the form the way it was the previous you know 10 times I done that exercise yeah so that's almost meaningless for for tracking progression in the gym now if you come in every single time and do it that way every single time then that's probably okay to be honest except that of course that's a more injury prone the more dangerous way to way to train you know when you're just sort of letting it rip completely yeah Chris Duffin talked about the same thing when I was asking him about his 1,000 and 1 pound for three reps squat he was saying that in his training he had to remain calm that he he said like you know he was talking about like lifting 900 pounds calm doing that like after week you know that working in those like up in that rep range without getting amped up without getting psyched up in order to to train and have the strength he needed to get where he wanted to be yeah I think and I listened a little bit of his stuff and you tell me this may be maybe maybe wrong but he also had his movement had to be very very precise it was actually a really highly skilled thinker in the dude he's been enough years of his life under heavy loads that being able to address that sometimes like here's the obvious thing that happens people you get under a big squat and if you're not psychologically ready like in that sort of aggressive state yeah and the barks on your back you're like oh fuck this is heavy yeah you don't want that that's not what you want on your mindset so for Chris or someone who's done a lot of that he's he already knows how to get past that and put himself in the right level of aggressive state to handle those super heavy like superhuman loads but what he also needs in order to get those three reps or to training that way is a highly skilled movement yeah so he has to have his wits about him and calm in a certain way he can't be like just you know rip-rung you know just as a absolute maniac lunatic because then he won't have the silk component in place that he needs to have yeah that's just need to be feel that way he doesn't need to offset that the fact the feeling of the heavy load because he's been there yes his home man he's been under those loads you know many many many many many times so it doesn't freak him out he doesn't need a supercompact overcompensate with excessive aggressive arousal like like some people you have to learn how to do that over the years you know so I would love to get him back on and have him on with you I feel like that would be a cool conversation to to get you guys together and talk about this so you know this is funny I'm going to tie some things together we've talked about with what you just said with Chris is that you know over over the years depending on the person's mentality and how that lifting fits with their life probably a number of the things but you know eventually you sort of learn how to out of you know get focused and get aggressive and and be you know take on a high arousal frame of mind in order to handle progressively heavier heavier more difficult and stressful loads and at some point in time like some of us almost as if like you've got that that box has been checked and you can do that like nothing's going to you could always turn the non whenever you need to they would in order to figure that out after learn that you know it's sort of like sort of like a sprinter you know and some people like they learn how some people don't run very well and some people run better than others but rarely do we actually sprint so part of sprinting is it has to be a max effort to sprint but a very big part of sprinting in sprinters know this anyone's ever been like a speed related track athlete they do tons of form running you know high knees and all this kind of stuff like gate that you have is really really important so and they talk about having like a loose jaw or loose hands oh wow you're before and yeah so some people just be representing with so yeah so the idea is that you're like you're driving like you're sprinting it's all out like it's you know if you're a world class person it's you know less than 11 seconds or you know maybe a couple more if you're a woman maybe but it's not a prolonged effort but you have to be relaxed the same time you're putting out a maximum effort so for someone who like who's like once they're running 100 meter dash and they don't really run it's probably the best for them just to run as hard as they can you can be all over the place yeah look like an absolute idiot trying to do that you like you were running from something yeah right exactly so but the highly advanced person knows how to turn on that maximum or how to level and now because of what they're trying that so that's boxes have been checked but now that now there's the skill component which needs to be really really focused as well because you're literally it's sort of like you know when you're lifting that high level with big loads like that and I can't even stab them what that was like for sure I mean like that's that's beyond my level for sure but I I sort of liking it something like it's it's as if you're you're you know it's like dragsters getting it back to like a racing analogy so those big-warm dragsters that they said speed records with like if those get off angle just like a little bit they just go flying off the fucking the track yeah because you're going so fast you should a rocket it's off by like 1% you know I think this happens with rockets too like they shoot they fire so fast and if they're off trajectory by a little bit they just they never they never make maintain an orbital path around the around the earth and they just fly off into space so a little bit of a of an off being off a little bit means makes it a breaks it for those you know high speed high performance rocket like things so if you know Chris has got 900 pounds on his back and he's off by a little bit in some aspect it's form or bend like that's going to the effects that that's going to have because if the loaders are being lifted there terms of joint forces and muscle coordination could be enough to cause a you know tragic injury yeah if he's off by smidge whereas you know it's just squat 1.35 or you know you see like some people like you're seeing people like they just got like stupid strength like quote unquote retard strength they're just like they get that's why they call it this somebody like so naturally strong and you look at me like that form is terrible you could tell they've never done that you know like they they're like I use the term motor more on sometimes like like the person like they're just like all over the place but they're so strong so you can get a that with lighter loads but once you get those higher loads that you can only lift because so much skill is there then your nervous system has to be really really in play and really tuned in so yeah there's a higher level beyond developing the ability to grind that really is a matter of I think the large part what you what you're trying to do those low low rep lifts like triples or doubles or singles like power lifters which I don't try to do you know either so so that's one aspect so let's go back one more thing that this is kind of a big piece okay we go back to that plot with the comparing the squat and the leg press and the knee extension alright give me just a second here that was the one we already looked at yep okay and I'm gonna flip the script back around on you stop see you see I can cause your brain to untwist itself and twist back the other direction alright we've got that one back up okay so here's the interesting thing so this person like if you take the individual on that study they've increased quad size the legs are bigger I'm assuming the hamstrings are everything's gotten bigger because they've squatted and so you logged in ministry returns it's gonna tell us that their squat gains are going to be less and less over time they got that 70% increase in squat run with 100 max over two or three months of training what have you but it's not gonna keep increasing not gonna get you know 140% the next three months and you know another 70% I wish yeah yeah no right it would be awesome and that's what we see in the logbook you pick up a new exercise even if it's not really new for you but it's when you have it done in a bit and you get good for three or four or five workouts you get good strengthings and eventually those will start to Peter off and so you've got you've got something interesting going on there and this is the other aspect of those neurological that neurological component that is sort of going on underneath that we really can't do much about it just the nature of how things work but let's say you're someone who does a really good job your your form is dead on you got a good mind muscle connection your tempo is the same now doing any bouncing or stretch shortening so comparing workout by workout everything is the same but you're you're increasing the load well something is going on there underneath in terms of activations such that you're able to get a better stimulus because your nervous system is learning how to lift those heavier loads at least we hope something great this is where it gets a little bit tricky because it made actually your nervous system if you look back at one of those first blocks we have is that the amount of activation per amount of muscle actually maybe going down but we presume that if you compare like workout one versus workout 10 where everything's the same in terms of your form number of sets follow-up and you've increased your strength by 20 percent that now you're getting a stronger stimulus your because you're lifting heavier loads or using more more weight but you keep going on that and you don't get stronger anymore so you're not able to evoke in your training a greater stimulus from lifting a heavier load or doing more reps you just sort of plateauing out and what you see now then and you saw this at the beginning tube what you see now then is that you're an advanced person you put on five pounds of muscle in the course of a year that's pretty good right and that's distributed over the whole body so let's say two and a half of that is in your lower body let's the primary muscles that are involved with the squat which is taking that example and that two and a half muscle pounds like now you you're getting that over 12 which 12 months so you know what what are we getting like a quarter of a pound every month that's not going to show up as tremendous strength gains so you're not going to see in the gym you can still microload a little bit and that's going to that's definitely helpful to do but you're not so now what is happening strength wise is represented what's happening muscle wise in those lifts that you've been doing for a while but now let's think about the knee extension and think about it just as another lift you now got more muscle but you've got no strength gains on the knee extension okay or let's say it's a tip of the barbell squat and if we went and compared that during some a hammer strength squat or a leg press or something else that's trained to say muscle it's your you're not going to have those same strength gains but if we if we go then after you platter out on the squat and you can't revoke a greater stimulus because you've just been doing that exercise for so long you change exercises and guess what you still can train pretty hard but what happens to the strength gains you get in that new exercise over time it starts to go up sure you'll once again start progressing and in progressing you're going to increase the stimulus on those muscles that are being trained so the novel exercise that you swapped out for the one that plateaued that novel exercise now becomes a novel stimulus and a novel stimulus is what you want for new muscle growth so the whole reason why the muscle grows is because the stimulus demands it to so to speak to use a kind of a flexorism here is that you're forcing the muscle to grow with a novel stimulus and you're only going to get that in some way shape or form by asking the muscle to do something it hasn't previously done and the novel that new exercise creates some new activation patterns or something new and different is going on such that you're getting more loading or more reps or higher weight in progressing strength wise or performance wise when you're using that new exercise so that's why we swap exercises that makes sense and you'll you'll see that right off the bat that's even doing barbell squats and then you go do the hamstrings squat same number of sets relative loads of same reps are about the same and you should source shit right new activation pattern something different about it that tells you that you stress the muscle in a way you had previously which is exactly what you want novelty of stimulus that there's something that is in adaptation so that's what's pretty cool about that is like if you think about the knee extension they got over those let's say it was three months study three months of study they got a 60 or 70% increase in the squat nothing in the knee extension but they got 10% more muscle mass now imagine they just started doing knee extensions how fast their strength gains go up yeah and that's even a more squat focused exercise so that they could harness strength gains off of that and ride that for a long time maybe they just did knee extensions and leg presses drop the squat for a while the squat would go down they might lose a little bit maybe maybe not but then they could then um re-harness using the squat hopefully because they've spent three or four months gaining more muscle mass through those other exercises which now can be applied to squat so you just simply harness those periods of time of novelty and underlying increases in stimulation that come as a part of the nervous system doing what it does to allow for those performance increases learning how to stimulate the muscle to do what you're telling it to do which is lift heavier loads for the same number reps or getting more reps with the same loads or both and so the nervous system then becomes your friend because it's learning how to how to evoke a greater stimulus because you're requiring it to and that's your voluntary that's like we're going to do this I'm going to get 12 reps no matter what come hell higher water and you do because that's a reasonable goal to have and the nervous system figures that how to make it happen so the nervous system adaptations can be a good thing because that's what allows us to some degree to progress incrementally in a progressive fashion when we're rotating exercises in and out over time yeah it really it gets me thinking too about how important it is to have some variety in my workouts um to not just rely on that the one thing that I love you know maybe squats are king you know a lot of people would argue that like hey if you did one exercise squat which I mean there's probably some some good it's probably not bad advice but you know also leg press also extensions all these things and I mean they're gonna have you know quite a quite a role in the in the development in the in the fortitude training loading sets people pick three primary exercise let's literally for thighs which is glutes quads he amps add actors kind of lump them all together so that might be like a farbo back squat and then a machine squat like a leg press let's say let's say backs they're favorite but they're also and I did this in part there's some other reasons but one of the reasons I I set up the loading sets though they do a compound exercise and then an isolation exercise so you might do a squat and the extension a squat a hamstring curl and then a squat again if you're using the highest volume tier so you love squats you want to squat like you feel like you're not even if you're not squat squat squat some part of your problem you're not a man yeah yeah if it's not the program like it's you're not a bodybuilder doesn't work you have to have squats so you're moving along over time trying to make progress on the squats and your plateauing on barbell squats so one of the things you can do and it avoids the same thing because remember there's something going on with the activation pattern which is allowing us to get those increasingly strength over time even without giant increases in muscle mass and those that that's part of the but is probably novel and part of the learning process such that when you do something you haven't done for a while you get really your sore because the activation pattern doesn't know quite what to make of it or it's just a different activation pattern that you haven't had before so it's a novel stimulus because of that so you're you're moving along like you've been squatting for you know it's a four months and your squats nothing's going up so what I would then tell people to do is keep the squats in there one option is I want you now put the knee extensions first so your first set is knee extensions and then you so you pre-feteed and then you go and you squat well that creates a weak link in the quads and it all just the act it feels totally different I've got someone I want to say it is I want to need but someone who I the help was a couple things who's now doing some pre-feteed stuff for chest okay and if they're really strong there's a pro really strong guy and he had never done that before and he's the first time he did it when he went to his presses he was like flabbergasted as to how much he felt that right in his chest hmm I'd say Dave Henry but I don't think it's Dave Henry I've seen him do pre-feteed in a long time ago this is this is in Dave someone okay but anyway but just example of someone just the work for and he could tell like the first there's like he said he's like holy shit yeah felt it's so much it's just more than he had and I was just put pre-feteed exercise and so you do that now I think I know I'm gonna guess after the show you're probably I'm sure you do so you do that now with the quads and then you hit the squats so those squats go totally different yeah yeah and your your load has to go down or your reps go down one or the two because of the pre-feteed just the simple fact that you've been one of the muscles that wasn't otherwise yeah especially if you're squatting in a way that you know like a high bar squat or what have you you're trying to little get the quads whatever you're having to be doing to using the squats for and so you have so you have a now you have a new starting point because you've mixed things up so now you do knee extension squat hamstring curl squat and then maybe a last set of squats or maybe you put the hamstring curl between the second and the third set of squats you can do it all sorts of ways you've switched the order and so now you have a new baseline and you start to progress from there because it's basically becomes kind of a new exercise given the pre-feteed and there it feels totally different for some people sure having pre-feteed like this person I just mentioned so then you progress you get to keep squats in your rotation yeah and when you plateau with that order of exercises you switch it up a different way you put the hamstring curls first and then you have pre-feteed hamstring curls or maybe you put hamstring curls and the extensions like one right after another if you want to you could do that I don't line people like straining from the standard template I have and then you do your three steps you could do it that way so what you get to keep squats in there because you like those and you're driven to do them and you and that's motivating and then of course there's bands and chains and all those sorts of things you can do to keep them in but but all those all those order of exercises bands and chains are ways to add in variety which match the loading curve to the strength curve or simply change the nature of the exercise so that's novel enough that you get sore and it's funny because I don't get this soft anymore people used to like call me out on Instagram say why you do all these weird exercises and I kind of explain this to you because I want to stick to the basics I still do do the basics but I just heard from another client actually today you know those row stop beds yes remember that the row stop beds yeah suggested to these those and actually do some really slow rack dead lifts okay and and because I just been seeing something in his in his pictures is checking pictures that I want to sort of focus on is back a little bit more and he said he's like I did both hand up and incorporating both of them into the same workout as it turned out yeah which doesn't surprise I am which is awesome I thought it's not critical of them you just go and for it that's how he is and he said he can hardly you couldn't hardly sleep he was so sore oh my gosh it's got a training for decades yeah he's been doing that it's even doing Ben and Rose he's like what the hell like why the hell does happen and it's because he was so novel and so different and those exercises the way I had him do them simply required him to use his lats in a way that despite the fact that he's been doing dead lifts and racked as he's been doing Ben over Rose all the components are the same it's not like like I had him like you know hanging you know by his bootstraps you know off the roof of his house you know using a dumbbell while he was whistling dixie through a kazoo it was nothing crazy right now it was just just a change in form a little bit of change in tempo and the nature of those exercises demand that is back being involved in a way that he had never done that he had never done either of those and he put them both in the same workout and had a hard time sleeping from the soreness I think if I get it like literally the soreness came on so fast it was the day of the act of the workout oh you know that's going to be a rough one you know those are exactly when you get sore that and I remember the first time I did the rack dead lifts this way people might be asking this is um this is something that I don't take first mention this like doing really slow rack dead and I said okay well here I was what I'm going to do because I knew I had that tendency to speed up tempo is like I'm going to use a metronome oh yeah I've always when I've suggested I always suggest they actually literally get a metronome yeah so you start from your normal pulling height you know below the knee or mentioned whatever it might be with a weight you would probably be like like half or less of what you might do for you know said at 8 to 10 it's got to be really light and basically one second up sort of explode up but eventually there's gonna be no explosion could be so petite but pull up fast and then once you get the top was zero one two three four up zero one two and try to make the descent even so you're not like really slow at the top and then dropping at the bottom mm-hmm it's got to be you know the same rate of descent through the entire four seconds that's a brutal is a brutal negative and you have to keep going if you can't stay on tempo then the sets over way hey I got a tip too hot tip you don't even need to you don't even need to buy a metronome now you can just I was going to say I was going to look for an ad but yeah I looked at I just typed it into Google and literally it's like the thing it's just a widget or whatever it's a thing on it's just right on there yeah you don't even need to download me but you're having the bother in the gym with your you know average talk you know great right click talk although that would get that sweet to get that thing out wind it up I had a little electronic one in fact it's probably in my gym bag still I just little bag of you know tricks yeah yeah my little yeah my little like spy bag of bullshipped that I carry out you know shit's gonna get real serious of Scott pulls the metronome out you're gonna be hurt yeah oh I'm like because they've been I speaking we would do those and he'd be like off when he see the metronome he'd be like towering yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah be like a we're still the cattle for odd you know like yes like the cattle for like you know some dogs you like get out the nail clippers yeah you're gonna do this you look at the call for like trying to get him in the bath like no not to metronome yeah so but that it's just tempo and you know that's the force-mind most connection so anyway the the point there is that those new exercises the fact the simple fact that in that particular study they had muscle growth but they had no strength gains and those exercises they did do suggest that there's room for a neurology with adaptations and an increased load that can come about in doing those new exercises you haven't been doing yeah just learning how to do those as long as you keep your form like you know don't be don't train like an asshole so to speak and start you know bouncing with the weight would have you keep your your form under control use a good mind muscle connection etc etc but those those exercise you haven't doing are ones that are right for exploiting the fact that your nervous system will allow you to lift heavier loads and thus produce a greater stimulus for growth over time you just want to make sure you're not allowing other the some of those other neurological mechanisms like the stretch shortening this this inhibition we saw with the the box jumps to the pie metrics become into play so you want to like let the nervous system do its thing and some of that is psychological drive learning how to grind so that you can get greater stimulus but don't don't start cheating like rolling your shoulders back on curls throwing in body English intentionally you know just to get more reps unless of course you're doing that because you're being a very mindful manipulator of the fact that the force muscle the force velocity curve of skeletal muscle tells us that there's a reason why a little bit of body English would make sense in terms of loading that's the topic next for next week maybe we get into it I look forward to that yeah it's cool stuff so I think I think that's the thing so this is you know this we got we we talked about the the cross training effect which is pretty interesting the fact there was you the activation level for a given amount of force going down so the nervous system is figuring out you know in training what's going on they're the muscle also got bigger that stretch shortening cycle and rep tempo like pretty much to some degree if your rep tempo is speeding up just just empirically just from what I've seen as a coach and myself and people I've worked with the that faster rep tempo means you're probably doing somewhat of a stretch shortening cycle yeah yeah just I mean you're just doing some I mean you're starting to go too fast that's the only way that's coming about yeah you can feel it you can feel it because I do that you know I've mentioned it a bunch of times now but the way David Smith had helped me with my incline dumbbell press is to really control that negative down and you know I pretty much tried I like give that a pause I tried it I've tried to be a control of everything I'm doing but I will find myself getting ahead of myself a little bit it's a heavier way I'm getting excited and I see myself starting to move faster but when you slow it back down you feel it because then your ability to get reps changes you know what I mean like you're cranking it you're cranking it and then you're like oh shit I'm getting a little too hyped settle it down scout and then it's like oh god now I can't even get another rep you know what I mean you get stuck for this stuff there's um one of the things I can I can explain I have an explanation for this I don't know if it's you know it's just my interpretation what's going on but one of the things you find too when you do that is that you'll be banging out the reps and then your and then your set will come kind of to a screeching uh huh like when when you die you don't have as many ringer reps yeah yeah okay I can see that when you do it that but when you do it that way yeah so that's kind of a sign of that interesting and some of that there's a couple of reasons potentially one is you know you're also in in harnessing that stretch shortening cycle you may be depending on the exercise but you may be allowing yourself to sort of rebound through a sticking point in the exercise so you're rebounding and like you're driving through a sticking point and eventually um as you start to the T you and you can't get as much of the stretch shortening cycle as you were before that that that that uh sticking point becomes much more evident because you don't have much like bounce it hit it and boom but you hit you kind of hit a wall yeah yeah it got bounced through it in that way yeah um there's also something like someone asked me a question which was a really good question actually on Instagram that I talked about like yes or I answered for him which fits in here yes uh can you still max the activate when you're fatigued let's say you reduce your strength level by 25% can you still activate those high he didn't say it this way but basically it's wondering can you still activate those high threshold motor units in a fatigue state and I think you can the question is whether you can fully activate a muscle anyway period in the first first and foremost that's a hard thing to quantify that's a whole other side tangent because the way the main way that that's been evaluated in the past is with a methodology that's obviously flawed um it doesn't it doesn't make sense some of the things that they that they demonstrate given the rest of the literature around strength so it's hard to know but one of the things that happens with that stretch shorting cycle which we see there in that EMG is that when you get good at that you're you have a facilitation of the activation that's opposed to inhibition so you're activating more muscle so you can tighten up the muscle and and and harness that elastic energy for the recoil when you bounce back past your sticking point and some of that may involve using some really high threshold motor units that are difficult to get and those are the ones that would be the least likely to be easily turned on in a fatigue state so fresh versus fatigue especially when the pain started to come in with pain will inhibit motor neuron output um trying to like be bouncy with the weight and drive in that sort of highly aroused state at the end of a set is less likely to be a possibility for you you're likely to kind of lose that neurological capacity at the end of a set so all of the things being equal you've got a fatigue muscle and everything else but you just can't do that bouncy stuff anymore because your nervous system is fatigue you're in pain maybe um and another things are going on so like all the stuff that happens with that facilitation is no longer within a realm of possibility because you may not be able to fully activate at least activate in the same way plus you've also got a slower muscle to when it's fatigued and speed is important especially from moving quickly because you want to be able to you want to be a slow lower it down but then tighten up at the appropriate time and in a coordinated fashion to allow that energy to be translated into the elastic funnits to then be harnessed so a slower muscle is not going to do very good at that so that'd be very good at that people with faster muscle fiber types do better with jumping and ballistic types of movements and with this is a ballistic type of movement so you're going to lose muscle speed in a fatigue state just because your fatigue because muscle is simply slower when it's fatigued that's just the nature of the beast because of the energy ability to supply energy it makes sense though yeah well kind of like I and I was a lot there you play it about ten times my brain is full at this point if this is my brain it's up to here at this point it's good it's more stop so anyway I thought I thought that would be helpful that's like it may be a little bit you know that's just kind of brain candy I think that some degree it may be like the white I really didn't know that but the bottom line is that the variety of training makes sense and keeping your form the same makes sense yeah so that you can let the nervous system do what it's good at to help you get a better stimulus along the route to using progressive overload as a way of a vote anymore muscle growth absolutely so we'll scout let's get out of here we did have a few questions that popped up but we don't have the time today so I'll try to I'll try to save these stuff that was off topic from this I'll try to save these we could we could do like a Q&A toward the end of the next episode or you know whatever we could figure something out but with that said of course checkout scouts book be your own bodybuilding coach you guys can't see it in our framing but I've got it up on the shelf over there you can pick that up at b y o b b coach dot com or check out amazon or it's said amazon right as well as burns in normal amazon and and Barnes and Noble Boe get the heart copy there and of course go to fortitude training dot net you can get the fortitude training ebook oh my headphones died they're dying right now so we're cutting off right at the perfect time of course guys check out our great sponsor true nutrition dot com I just got my next order of my team skip blend protein as well as the the old school unflavered E a a's big old bag like 50 servings for like 25 bucks you really can't beat that pricing for some good intro workout E a is Scott as always I appreciate you my friend thank you thanks for doing all this for man yes see you guys well next time

You know the front relax pose the front double by the front lat spread everything from the front You're up your upper quads have to be lit up Yep Adolfines you have to be you have to be split up to your hips at all King times absolutely not one second that you are on stage should your upper quads not be split And I tell this to people and they go yeah, yeah And then they walk on stage and their upper quads are not there and they're not split and they may be Maybe they split for a second when they hit a shot and then they fade yeah, and then they get third and they go Wow, I guess I got to be bigger. I'm like no you gave away at least one spot with your legs I can't with that like That's a whole topic of itself like When you first went in the gym I was telling Nicky this is morning while it was happening while there were two feet away from me I went to the gym and I was like I want to get big now that could be anything I think most guys go to the gym. They want to get a little bigger. It doesn't mean they want to be fucking monsters, but they want to be bigger for sure I went to the gym. I looked at the biggest guys. What are they doing right? I've never in my entire life seen a guy above average doing that Yeah, so She brought up the fact that the The amount of information that's out there the amount of bad information that's out there somehow People grab that off of Instagram or wherever Ignore who it came from and then just adopted and they still don't see what's right in front of them in the gym Which is no one with any sort of muscularity is doing this. They had one plate So it's 45 pounds Also mind you gravity is straight up and down so it's even 45 pounds It's on a fucking hammer strength and what are they doing exactly like you said sideways like the let me get any let me get into my fucking hammer strength machine But the front of it's here And I'm gonna grab it here And this is my range of motion mind you so my chest my pet doesn't actually like stretch at all. Yeah, okay. Yeah I mean, but I can feel it you know here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like you probably go a hell of a contraction and I bet that's what That can translate why I'm gonna get fucking huge Even though I've never seen anyone do it and even though the guy that came right after me immediately sat on like a normal fucking person and Started lifting weight. I don't know It so I got it now. I gotta go off here we go this better be recording because here we go I guess we started the show I saw a guy put up a video this weekend He said hell of a chest day and it was a video in his story, right? Yeah. Guess what he's doing He's got dumbbells, okay There are the sides Okay, he's bringing them up like this Okay, yeah, yeah, you've seen that otherwise known as like a front race But that was for chest I'm like I could contract my chest doing that. Yeah, I could do that too Gravity is still straight up and down Yeah, how is that a fucking check in what planet is that a chest movement That guy definitely gets sideways on the goddamn smith machine and does that shit so anyways You know I tell people all the time. I don't care what other people do I'm like not Am I fucking business you're not hurting anybody but it I still can't it's like I don't care if you're shitty driver either But You know if the Blinking yellow to turn left is on at least pull out the intersection so I don't get fucked by the deal Yeah, you know same thing. I'm like I know I preach that you should slap people with they do but sometimes it's stupidity it hurts me It hurts my soul runs calling. Oh, run run it's calling you. What's up on your phone? I didn't see your message and I do it What are you guys doing? We're on the show you're on the show right now. I'm I'm twisting you We're on the show we just started Are you taking a nap? What's going on with round? What's up with looking for food half places are closed because of the fucking funeral Is he you can really not ready? Yeah, he's looking around look Oh, dude. Yeah, that's bullshit. So where is he? I would have you go ask him what city is he in right now? He's in Birmingham. I know the engine then. Okay Yeah, I know What are you doing there so early? What are you doing for the next like three days? Yeah, um I should have asked more questions about my schedule That's what the one that you're probably so early. I talked to her a bunch of stuff to do and I'm looking at this schedule And I'm like I guess I'm gonna hang out with Dean oh a lot. Yeah, I was like because you text me and you were like Let's do 11 o'clock on Thursday. I'm like like get at like 8.35 in the morning And if I can make it I'll do it, but I'm coming from the flight with my bags and I'm down Anyways, we might lose that to Friday. Okay, so I'll figure it out But I mean I can grab my food. I ordered food so I'm just waiting for my food But I go up to my room and a bit in the hotball and I don't know what I'm gonna do that just dive on it We'll fucking go hit the ground. I mean you're on right now. So everybody knows you're gonna pop on at some point Okay, I'll get Man, he's he's already there That's so he was taking off. That's that's how this happened. That's why I texted this morning He has I'm sitting there and I'm I don't consume a lot of social media anymore, right? I don't like people at all at all So I just like I literally go to friends pages. That's the other thing all my friends are shadow band I have to go look for Ron I find him and I'm like oh good Jed So I'm watching Jed and it says last walk with dad for the next eight days. You know it was 14 hours ago Yeah, what you have? Do the math and I know I was like I don't think he's gonna be on Thing that's probably a good. Yeah, that's a good assumption there So there it was so anyways, but yeah, that was that was how I figured out that he wasn't gonna be on My text him I texted you then he got back to me and he's like well my bill to get on was like all right We'll see what he had works cool if not Ron Scott aware West Coast iron shirt and your honor yeah, I'll wear my mutant outfit to remind everyone If they go to iamuton.com they can use the code dusty 20 you could have used the road the code big wrong 20 if he was here But now screw it screw it not on this show. Oh, you know what this is so yeah episode blah blah Don't use his right also speaking and so that you put it in by the way So you started adding it to the thing of course. Absolutely so we don't say the episode But you tell them the episodes you're just having power. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, we just we just yeah exactly But I wanted to mention some other mutant stuff because we had a couple people Comment on the last episode and they said please tell mutant to stock 4 XL T shirts so I have bad news for you. Yeah, they're also gonna stock 5 XL Okay, that's bad. That's so Well, he only asked for four so I don't know if 5 is gonna offend him. He has something to grow into Yes, so we already talked and it should be in the October orders The I love see this though the 3 4 and 5 XLs Definitely the 3 and 4 is but they're all gonna be available because I actually so like I make my own shirts. Yeah, yeah Currently um, but yeah, so the big boss already handled that they're ordered and in fact So a lot of people liked my Was it called was it the fuck attention shirt is that the one? Fuck attention. Yes, we're making that from mutant now. So I love that The mutant collaboration so we just put them together and those would be available shortly Ron has his own shirt. Oh Sean has his own shirt. We all got our own stuff I didn't put my logo on mine. They offered okay, I don't like busy shirts. Yeah, yeah I was like I don't need that shit. So can we get one of the ones I was like no bare feet No, we have one coming out sit fuck crocks I think could you actually gonna sell 50% though because 50% of people like with him fuck you Ron was embarrassed last week. I think of his rant about the bare feet thing because he was passionate about it He meant it but then afterwards he was like oh, I don't want to think about you know His he got very you're very passionate about that you know well he was he this is the thing about Canadians I mean wrong It's it's there's a concern of the perception of how someone else will hear what he says Yeah, and and the funny thing is if you know Ron at all like There's and I literally there's never animosity like Ron can tell me dust you're gonna fucking more on Yeah, and yeah, it actually it's like you're welcome I'm helping you yeah, you know, it's not it's never negative so it's like Same thing he doesn't want you to he doesn't want a police fucking socks he didn't get right it Right, then you drag one of the gym then people are complaining. It's like oh fuck There's no other choice at that point. Yeah, so You just has to handle it and that's the problem is he does think it's dirty and that's his personal size you know right I feel like same way like I don't really like You know I don't really want to see you when fucking work boots in the gym You don't even like the work boots and what did you do through the 90s? Like you know like but work boots jeans like people who come straight from work. Yeah, it's not about the jeans or the work boots Okay, you might fuck up the pads with the jeans that is I've actually seen dudes coming to the gym like the truly or like manjet working and then they like Bring clumps of dirt through the gym also not a fail. Oh, no, that's not good Don't actually give a fuck what's on your feet I was gonna fuck up the equipment and make the gym dirty that's all you know, I mean I would electrocute people who don't wash their hands also and there you go and of just fucking cattle prodding people But it's frowned upon I guess Ever since 9-11 I got a circle circle back around though so you can't say circle back though because that's what that fucking lady used to say all the time Who's hiding? I don't be press secretary. Oh my she's totally circle back which meant she wasn't gonna say shit They go ahead you can circle back well because we started out Excuse me talking about that hammer strength Chastpress and pushing it sideways and you know we're trying to provide education to the masses Which by the way, too? I had some statistics if we can get into it in a few I want to tell you about what's going on with the audio podcast because it's doing really well And we're getting subscribers and listeners from all over the world. I want to give them some shout outs But before we got to any of that we're providing education so For real though For anybody who's listening and they're like yeah, I thought that's the way you were supposed to do the hammer is turning chest press You sit in it sideways and you get this little that that and then you you know you move on from there Why what do you What do you want to say so What is the fish should be doing we're gonna break it this time real simple first off think about this Where's the stretch there is one because you're absolutely for the first time in your life You're bothering out in most of you guys have never done that before Sorry, I was crossing things anyways So you're hitting you're hitting the bottom for the first time in your life and but there's no stretch yet Yeah, and I do understand what you said all so our guys are excited when you come up You're gonna feel a squeeze. Yeah, and you're like I'm targeting right here. Yeah That's not how muscle works. Okay, I like to just keep things at the most simple thing Stretch a muscle as far as we'll stretch safely Contract the entire muscle as much as you can. Yes, you know, you know, so Here's the bottom line you're not creating tissue doing that you're getting a little pump I compared to like someone says that weight doesn't matter It's like well if that's the case go to safe way grab a couple cans of beans and just do 300 side laterals Yeah, eventually it's gonna burn at some point You know or hold a baby in your arm like this For 20 minutes like you're gonna get a pump in your bicep It's not growing It's not I'm saying so you got a fact of those things in and the reason I said about the looking at people is Okay, here's something I always thought about when I was okay I was like I see a guy like a Jay-color and I also had been he's doing some different movement Okay, I've never seen before out of two questions one Why is he doing that and two is that so advanced that I don't need it yet? Hmm And maybe it's not but my point is is now do that in reverse at our gym right now like I just showed you last week Got Jeremy Pop and we got women that there are probably off top of my head 10 15 guys in there with awesome physics even just normal dudes, but I mean they're 220 Yeah, you know big ass dudes You've never seen any of them do that there you go Like so my question is do you think that you were so advanced? That you need to do that sideways that I don't need to do it. Yeah, do you think you know something? I don't know or do you or you just and here's what here's what the true answer is you're just not thinking Because you feel a little pump and you saw it on Instagram and that's the end of it so it must be good But if you were really thinking You'd glance around and I'm not saying one person because we all know that Jeanette like so I'm great Janette is gonna be fucking off in the gym and look awesome I don't mean that you should just do what they're doing. Yeah, that's true. So across the board You're following, you know, you've got your fan of whether it's bum-stead style physique or set for OC style Physiques or Ronnie Coleman have you seen any of them sideways in the hammer strength press Yeah, and then you do that to remember to like you know if in if I'm not that far along You know do I even need to do some of you still have it's it's always a tough game to compare yourself to anybody But I guess I get what's happening there. I get you feel that pump and then in your brain You're like oh, okay. Yeah, that must the here's the thing I think it takes a long time it can take a long time especially for certain body parts Especially like back to be able to feel like a good strong contraction in that muscle and if I'm doing these like little half reps and that helps me to like keep that Mind muscle connection. I'm squeezing the muscle You know then I can see how I would equate that to like now I'm gonna grow and listen my thought is this if if people are doing that chest press exercise and They don't want to stop and they don't want to you know follow your advice like literally Wait a year in see what kind of progress you've made through that and if it's working then more power to you keep going But if I think what you're trying to say dusty is you're trying to you're trying to fast forward that So they don't have to figure it out a year later What yeah, I think the thing is and it's fine We literally when I see something that drives me crazy it is in my brain So Nicky has figured out how to get me off the fucking ledge But when it comes down to people really that it's and it's isn't like me being funny They don't actually think they're in the gym. They're working out. They feel a pump. That's the end of it You know, but what I like remind people with pump is a stagious because most people would say okay What's the king movement for legs squats now again? I actually don't prescribe to that But most people would say that that's a pretty safe overall leg builder sure But do you feel the pump in your legs doing squats as much as you do extensions? No, no you don't do you extensions are nasty so I'm Forget it. It's so tough. Yeah, so so if the only thing you're thinking about is feeling and pump You're gonna fuck yourself. Yeah, that's exactly because Extensions are that way. I mean What I do lying leg rolls like super strict and I try to lift my knees at the top my hands will cramp I mean, it's brutal and it's not even heavy weight So if all I thought about was that I've been like well, I need just lying leg rolls. Yeah, yeah I'm all done. You know, we're you know a glute kickback is gonna be more targeted for the glutes But if you want a giant ass Squat 405 asked ankles for a while Yeah, trust me your ass will grow better and it's not going to you're gonna feel the contraction as much as you do doing a kickback Yeah, but tomorrow morning when you go down the stairs you're gonna oh fuck I always should have my ass. I always think what my friend Dave Calico He says he's like the things that work. They're not sexy. You know, and that's the thing man It's like that's not gonna catch your attention as much as you know something that's unique something that's different I remember doing After we had Justin Shire on he's doing this Pull down at an angle so it's like he's not pulling straight down He's pulling kind of like toward him and I was like you know what that's different I'm gonna try that as you know in a dish. Oh, we got round here as an additional part of my workout and Right, you know it was very different that video got Literally like five times as many views as if I would have done a regular pull down people people Something that looks different and that equates to you know that equates to Excitement and they you know they want to try that stuff even if it does any Right, Harvey if you want to be on the show come over here Holy shit rounds wearing a sub pop t-shirt. I'm so taken back right now I'm gonna I am we're in a sub pop t-shirt. It's my new shirt. Oh, dude. That is so cool And you're ever had on there's a lot going on right now There's a lot of sort of there's a lot of Toves or is live for red right and blue go USA I'm trying to figure out how to go full screen on this, but I guess it's the best screen I got it's your in the middle We can see you Now the seed seems okay, hey for the mind yeah, this is good Don't jinx it. I'm just on this just on this shitty wifi, but you know See I got my so my It looks like one though You still have better lighting than me and you're in a hotel room so congratulations. There you go. Nice. There you go I got my steak and rice Oh, no, yeah My the fuck are they're like tomatoes? What's that? Yeah, I don't know some that it's the decoration they give real food that you don't eat I was you know what you mean Yes, I absolutely know what you mean So run I had a little you missed I've met the gym today and there was someone sideways on the fucking hand was drank chest press again Yeah, I know I had a long discussion, but we can we can move past that now Because I feel better and Scott has Handle you know what you know what the funny thing is I've we've been doing this so long dusty That I didn't even know what you guys were talking about, but all I heard was Scott say you know people want something different If I would have done a different like a regular pull down they wouldn't have watched it and I was like oh There and I just knew I was like oh they're talking about stupid fucking action stuff It's all there is red It's all there. That's what I just knew who exactly what was going on You know who I blame for it though truthfully that the heart of it in the beginning is Charles Glass Angles gotta hit the angles Yeah, like the bad listen, I'm not even helping because he because he's making a million dollars doing it So hey do you think but I was just a lie because I was like he'd get on like a chest press and do a row and People like oh yeah, I was like there's this crazy thing where like right across the way there There's a there's a robot scene Ha ha it's built for that It does you know the funny thing is so I think if you look at why like I don't know maybe we should have Charles on the show Oh, that would be cool man. I I'm thinking of like why he even started doing that and if you think about Glass has been doing this so fucking long He was doing this back when there wasn't any variety of equipment in the gym you only had a couple of machines and maybe there was if maybe there's some situations where that was like yeah I make use of this thing you know what I mean and and There's also certain things that are definitely better than other things like not all Not all machines are the same when you do the backwards True, no, sure I used to watch and I'm like I was like you know what I always respected it because I trained in gold for a long time and I was like The business man in me was like marketing 101 You go see this you go see David the gym. You're gonna have you doing in climb bench press And that's fine, but you've ever done an inclined bench press on a lying lake cruel now that's the secret You know It's like when people come when people come to me they know they're not getting giant sets Like to get straight sets right you got in a lot of street they're getting like really properly executed Max intensity straight sets they're not getting fancy stuff or anything else so you know people that want to try that stuff They don't they don't come to me for a workout like You know can you be free to your chest workout? They know what they know they're getting like a real hard like you know Real simple chest workout which is so I do things so it's just funny I want to add something to so just looking at that like the psychology of what Charles Glass is doing I mean I think like I mean he's working he was working with guys like let's say doxter jacks and other Top pros Some of these here's a thought some of these guys how many times have they done a Seated cable row like how many seated sets or even reps of single seated cable rows has You know somebody like you know one of these one of these guys like doxter jacks and done so Maybe 21 15 years later when he's working with you know Charles glass Charles glass might change at angle even if it's not doing anything foreign He's been doing this for so long maybe to him. He's like oh you know what this is really cool This is different because I've already done this every week for the last 15 20 years of my life But it doesn't necessarily you know, so maybe there is some benefit for a guy like that But that's where I keep coming back to like you know Yeah, pros and what they need but I'll tell you what it does Scott is it's the same It's the same thing that Joe Bennett deals with okay because I spend enough time in gold's Venice It's not that Charles glass is not doing a fucking bar by the line climb or heavy hacks lots It's that the thing that's video is the different thing that he does Because it gets it's because it gets attention So then people think that you're gonna walk in and train with Charles and then he's backwards enough upside down on every piece of equipment And it's not the case You know like I love Joe and I actually before I knew him I thought the same thing I was like this guy I ever fucking have somey squat yeah, yeah, he's like oh 96% of my workouts are the same Well shit, but I don't need to post them because everyone's already doing that Yeah, and then I was like And that's how it was if you watch you know Charles some sure I'm gonna death threats after this like guys relax I know who Charles is no he's a legend no one shoot me We're on a first-day-and-basic I love one stock and shit But it's one of the things where the point is it does get bastardized Because someone sees it and this is a point wrong that you'll love Nikki made this point to me because I you see things in the gym and you're like where did they come up with this well? I think of that sometimes when someone I have a client right now he's gonna be mad They said this but I've had to send them a dumbbell row video four times And every time he thinks he's doing a sense of video back and I'm like how do you think this is the same thing Like you're filming it then viewing it then sending it to me And it's not the same thing so imagine if you're sitting backwards on a bench or sideways on a leg press What he's putting on his Instagram is probably not the exact same Charles glass just showed him Cheers my point You know because I do see that and I'm like I mean there was one set he sent me two videos back to back. I was like I can't even see the change that you're saying you made Yeah, so there is a connection between the two and not an insult to my client He's definitely won't the the reason we do this is to get it right Yeah, so it's like I finally sent a video of me doing him his way that me dropping down and showing him then verbally walking through Yeah, because it just something in my explanation wasn't working did I know what you mean Did he get it then after you showed him that I'll get him again this week, but that's my point is that's a dumbbell row which Is a relatively simple movement But I think that's why Harvey knock it off. I think that's why they get bastard as people just think you just grab a dumbbell and pull it Yeah, that's a row. Yeah, you know like a lot of ways. I always say that that's probably to me the most Rect movement in the gym because I think oh, it grabs some dumbbells and put them out to the side So any who yeah, all right that was all a 30-year-old I ran until we could start the pro topics now. It's good. We need that. I Somebody did I I I do want to touch on I think this might be my first meal on the show Oh, I need to show me those perfect medium rare to the cooking right. Let's see Yeah, it's actually good. It's good. I'll show you a bite Ron's talk a lot about eating he's talked a lot about using a silverware and guys You get to witness it firsthand today Do you see I was using it like it's funny all this nice that is guys That's how stop yeah That's beautiful It is his first meal. I've chewed food on the meal many times and people hate me for it now they can finally hate Canadian Oh and by the way guys big Ron 20 works again because Scott is or Ron is back on the show today I had pulled them that it didn't work today because you were here Doesn't work sorry guys we shut it off We shut it up for what up You put a rumor out there you know, I don't even know really know if he's still with mutant I guess Real touching go I mean I haven't seen him in an hour Man Well, that's the house you should be getting a lot of hits on yours just for the harassment you take yeah You know my mother just ordered using Ron's code So I'm having flashbacks to my grade 12 biology class because I used to eat like a half a load of loaf of bread with a jar of peanut butter It's just sitting in class and no one else is eating And that would just sit in the back eating peanut butter sandwiches She's With the knife that's amazing that's amazing yeah, you're not letting bring nice to school anymore just so you know you can't do that. Oh, yeah, yeah, that'd be a problem Weak You know I had something I wanted to share with you guys and I I sent this over I took a screen cap I was listening to a podcast yesterday and And they they they always line it up. It's just entertaining local radio show that they then Have it syndicated as a podcast called Dave and Chuck the free it's entertaining I laugh all the time when I listen to that it's rare I get to listen to it, but I went to another shooting match yesterday and it was like an hour drive So I was like I'll listen to some Dave and Chuck so I'm driving on the street and This topic they say in up next which celebrity claims that they need to have sex five times a day To feel satisfied and so they get to that sake man and this is what I hear I actually like I said I took a screen cap. I don't know if this is gonna demonetize us or what but like copy right in French But we're gonna go ahead and roll with it anyway. We don't have to listen to the whole thing, but check this out Why so Arnold Schwarzenegger did that movie true lies and Tom Arnold was in it and I guess you have been super tight ever since okay, they're like best friends. You never would expect it, but I guess they are and Tom Arnold said Listen to this day he has more sex than anyone I know wow He said he actually has a bunch of women who now visiting daily to fulfill his needs For him. I didn't know that Schwarzenegger and his wife Maria separated in May 2011 after 25 years of marriage when it was revealed that he had fathered a teenage son with the family made well because he needed it five times a day Right It's since that split I guess he's found a string of women that Keep him sexually fulfilled isn't the dude like in his 70s now? Yes, but I wonder if he's on stuff. You know, I just saw video these guys I don't know why but it's suggested to me In my TikTok these like I'm I'm doing this Tran or I'm doing this different steroid things one of the videos I just saw was a If you're doing that you will want to have sex with People that aren't even attractive Like normally you're not even find someone attractive But you're on this stuff and you're so jazzed up and I just wonder with the body building stuff If it might explain the made thing because we didn't understand the made thing I've seen a guy's were like you won't believe what you'll do because your testosterone is so high I'll take it from any No, no, but I mean it's it's a yeah, I'm just that's the gist of it and Go pretty funny It's pretty funny it's pretty funny when like the main stream starts to like really catch on to hear trend trend on the radio Yeah, like the thing that it was he just knew that it made a seven-at-a-long Yeah, it's the same word when you take trend girls aren't as fat Yeah, just boom that explains a lot of things. What was that movie where the The guy was fat the whole time and he didn't know or something shallow how was that or no the woman was fat No, no time and he thought that she was like a supermodel through his eyes so he was just on trend could be yeah trend he was on he was on trend and vodka Yeah, well, you know what they say a two o'clock 10 is a 10 o'clock or a 10 o'clock two is a two o'clock 10 you know what I mean? Yeah, it's a bar move Right, go tell the camera like no fucking way two way I'm like another thing another thing They're not factoring in here. I think we can all attest this. They're not factoring in age Because as you get older you start to go She's pretty hot. I'd fuck her And then you like yeah, she's got a really pretty smile All about Pins like something makes it okay You pinpoint something you're like hey, well, I mean, you know you're just stinking in your head You know how guys do that we don't like to admit this, but like almost every girl we interact with we're like Yeah, yeah, maybe and and then as you get older that line like drops because you're like Hey, she's pretty funny Yeah There's all these I think it would be in her not having teeth. I guess Right Right, you know She doesn't she doesn't you know, she's I know you know what I'm saying you start to appreciate more things than just how they look You know when you're in your 20s are like that girl's hot and they know and as you get older You're like yeah, you know, yeah, so I imagine we're just what 70 What's yeah just funny? So what's it? What's our 75? I'm like that. Yeah, yeah, yeah, right around there So who are these girls? Are they all like 55? I don't know, but he'd be doing pretty good You know, no, I don't know where he's at at 75. He's he's doing all right, you know I wonder if he's playing that because they got to be dumb Also because anyone that would sleep with him with the things he says on the out loud is obviously dumb What? Oh, sorry Here's here's here's here's the thing I like I like the concept of like got 55 year old like booty call check. That's like funny Like you know you think of like rich guys rich guys calling up their booty calls and you think of like You know the Instagram Millionaire guys calling up their list of 22 year olds to come and service them and then you like Change it to a 76 year old Arnold and you're like who are his booty calls? Like are they 25 year old Chick City like is it a server from TGI Fridays or is it? The principal of the the the principal of his kid school Retired later Retired principal This is kids are adults Yeah, yeah, you know oh yeah, I miss his Smith Cheers running this school back in the day. You know you can always have it all you had each other Yeah, you know we probably have to act her in two light that she won't speak like he needs someone to keep it quiet Yeah, there's a lot going on when you're Arnold and you have a list of booty calls like how does that work? Do they get a monthly allowance just to shut up? You're stifing yeah You know you work the booth you get your couple hundred handed to you throughout the day Yeah It makes me feel like a Ford dusty I try to help you with that Yeah, I was just a piece of meat the trend thing though that's what really caught me. I was like, oh, wow This is interesting. They're talking about you know Arnold they're talking about you know And they start talking about steroids and then he specifically mentions they're on this trend and I've heard that before So he's hearing this That's Chuck by the way and he's like a You know middle age not in good shape guy who's just surfing he's into gaming and stuff like that He's surfing around TikTok and for some reason these people are getting filtered to him Where they're teaching them about trend which blows my mind like he probably never find this so So like you win it would have been like Yeah, yeah, the old way would have been like that guy's on steroids and then there was a period of like that guy's on testosterone and I'm not like that guy's on trend Yeah, yeah They can tell he's the director Yeah, I really interested I'm interested to know what Arnold is doing now You know who are these women I want to know Yeah, he's not talking about his testosterone or something with the women. What is he doing now? Who not what who Is he doing now that's great does he have an array like is there an array or are they all just ask courts? Does he get bored that you know you would think you could just make that happen He can't afford to do that Yeah, if he can afford porn starts Yeah, there you go He could just pay the porn stars like at the top end most expensive thing he wants you can do it every once We We had not that I would do such a thing Speaking of our escort still legal in Canada I Don't even really know the laws about escort or any of that stuff in Canada I don't know I don't know what's illegal. I don't know Run those I don't know I stump wrong. Yeah, it's funny. I have I I Mean I think it's illegal, but it's like more frowned upon. I don't know if they have a leap or Sue like You know that it's like the escorts it advertise and In sneaky ways. I don't know if they like do that stuff. If they care. I don't know God's leg maybe need his credit You know So join us. So some of my latest loss in Virginia in Canada was with escorts This call them Let's see is sex work illegal in Canada. This is a question at a death It says that the purchase in soliciting of prostitutes along with Let's see protection of sex workers so Okay, this is a big long thing. I don't think I'm gonna get a quick answer Right, yeah It says sex There's a change of sexual services money and goods So there's this bills once I figure Google it wrong. I'm gonna go Google it. Yeah, please yeah, do do that You're just gonna like I think you're just gonna check it Well the guys only fan only only fans falls under the definition of sex work now the vague long-wide Definition of sex work, right? So There's this bill that's not definition it's changed Yeah new offense that prohibits purchasing sexual services No tuition it's crime That's what I initially thought but I didn't want to just say that but I think yeah This is December 22nd 2016 if you pay someone explicitly for sexual services in Canada That is prostitution you've committed a crime Hmm Week we can't use to be better than it is no anyways no guns no prostitution what's happening there? What if you guess if I'd drink or lower-pave for everything If I them dinner and pay for everything that's just like your average relationship is that so count You're still paying for the same thing. I don't get it Agreed Here's what I don't get this will bothers me about this for real So A chicken walk up to a guy in a bar and just be like yeah, I want to sexually Can we do that and he can say yes and they can go do their thing But right if there's payment involved now it's not okay like so you can bang a hundred million guys It's long as no one gave you any money. It's fine But if there's a you could say like And then afterwards you can be like hey cat borrow $500 and not pay back and they can go. Yeah sure and then it's all legal Okay, that's what I don't get it's such a like oh we want tax money. I mean just tax that shit Easier you can control it you can make sure they're all tested they don't got STDs and shit I feel the same thing with weed like you could make a lot of money off of weed just make them legal everywhere silly that was a thing about what California did to the porn starts there for a while that drove a lot of them out of the out of the state Is a California the banks started giving the porn start Is a hard time about their They're like they're buffed this before only fans when they were all sent up their own websites Yeah, and the bank the bank starts those close their accounts They're closing their accounts. They're like we are close We are no longer dealing with you here's your money leave wow and they were closing And that's why some of the porn starts left for Vegas because they were having like banking problems and and then the IRS was like getting on their backs and stuff They're like I'm claiming all my fucking money like what's your problem yeah, and Because it was coming through their website right the web canning and all that stuff So that's been a big thing and California drove a lot of them out of the state doing that which blows my mind because porn's a billion dollar industry and They've literally tried to force it out of California. That's crazy Which just mind boggling mind boggling to to force a billion dollar industry Out of your economy just because you know certain people voting thing you know sex sex is You know that should be illegal or whatever Yeah, so it's it's it's pretty nuts. You know, I know all the people involved in industry were just Blowin away that it was happening. They're like are you serious? You know don't you find it's interesting that The same people who want to push Pouring out because it's wrong and you can't do it are the ones pushing for Let's get children to cut their decks off and become women because we want them to Because everyone should be able to do what they want and no one should be judged. I'm like Right and feelings matter more than anything and all that sort of stuff Yeah, it's why it's I get the same Dusty this is why you know when it boils down to politics I don't you know some people identify as something. I don't really identify as anything. I identify as Leave me the fuck alone and I'll leave you the fuck alone And I don't care how you make a living at all Just don't cause problems. How's that that's fair enough? I like it I don't give a fuck. I want anybody does but just don't cause problems and I if I don't hear about it I don't know you're doing it. I don't do a fuck. I could give less of a fuck And that's my politics and so when people want to get involved in what I do and limit what I do and tell me what I can Own and where I can go and what I can say and You know how long my magazine can be Like fuck you Exactly as long as you're fucking shoes are on in his gym you do what you do Yeah Well that comes down to don't don't don't cause other people problems. Yeah, just don't cause exactly You know oh my god, that's problems. That's so bad. Oh, okay. Sorry Dusty I told you we were gonna be all one-to-date. I I warned Scott. I was like I'm on one-to-date It's gonna be no-what you meant. I was like one what when he had acid? That'd be an interesting show Just one easier I got a throw a movie review in oh oh yes I just feel like as you mentioned the acid and so there was like a movie it did not have any to do an acid but there was some mud Was on it yeah, yeah, I'm gonna need to do it acid, but I was on But I was saying why watch you I Watched a movie on the plane. Oh, I like the um Yeah, called the Northman And it's a uh Super fucking violent Viking movie. Hmm yeah, it's kind of a Viking revenge movie, you know, yeah, and uh It was like I don't know I haven't had like I haven't watched a movie in a long time or I was like whoa What the fuck are they doing like it was really art house? Huh and and there was like black and white Whenever he was like kind of in a dream sequence or night time stuff and then when he was on mushrooms There would be black and white but with the odd thing brightly colored and then there was daytime scenes It was just color okay So it was like kind of a uniquely shot, you know, and there was a whole bunch of Seans where you were sure if it was real or if he was kind of having a trip Yeah, you know and a whole bunch of visit like some vision quests stuff and it was and then a lot of just Fucking nasty revenge like Viking style, you know, where you know their ruthless mother fuckers man and and It was also a gritty really well done gritty movie. It had a great cast it had Nightingale Kidman was in it and William to faux had a part in it and there was just like really great cast in it and And I can't remember the main actor's name is a Swedish guy, but he was fucking great and It was gritty because you saw like how Like I just kept thinking the whole time like they're running around. It's in like Iceland Right in like Viking days. Yeah, so Like they're running around the grounds like muddy and wet and you're thinking I'm thinking about their feet I'm like the F foot rot like there's feet are soaked like muddy soaked all the time like how would they take care like and then you think the average life Expect to see these motherfuckers was like what 30 yeah, yeah real short real short If they're fucking lucky and then all of them wanted to die in battle because that's the only way you get to Valhalla So they were determined to die in fact they don't want a dying old man that's like a shameful way to die Yeah So like you just think of like the life and then you show them like it shows them taking a village Right and there's nothing nice about how they did that they just take all the girls and put chains around their necks and fucking ship a Way that's there. We got some new checks and new slaves for our call and Ian They just go through the man and just sort of out who can work who can't fucking dead You know fucking round them up. They know like they just treated people like fucking garbage man Yes, you know you're from another you're from another village Yeah, fuck you. Yeah, fuck you. We kill you. Oh fuck you. Yeah, they just It just sake man. We come a long way as without we like How we treat people you know there was I didn't kill that guy on the hammer shake machine I just talk to you about them There was There was like there was no good news if you saw some ships approaching your harbor oh Yeah, like they weren't know it's coming from the shelter be like yeah They're not they're not coming to see like hey, what do you guys have to trade here? They're like you see ships coming to your harbor. It's like all fuck, you know the bike was the Vikings were in England You're like you're in there. You're in there. Oh, yeah, well, what are we gonna be there for sure this weekend? Yeah, yeah Jamie Yeah, yeah, there's a bunch of his bloodline in that movie too just these crazy fuckers and just what they would Uh some of the you know crazy rituals like they sacrifice you know something happens and of course they they can't explain it So they think it's like the gods, right? So they have to sacrifice a young girl Like oh we better sacrifice a young girl immediately So like an XC you see just like this fucking 14 year old girl just getting stabbed to death and then just they're just fucking Killer quick enter you know like and there's a and everyone singing and chanting and ceremonies going on and they're just and It's just you just think sock and it just reiterates my constant Feeling that we live in the best time to ever live ever you know We just think back any other time like You know people it's a I'd love to go back to like the you know the Roman Empire and just see what the cities were like Fuck off You know what I go back then Fuck off, I want to put a chain around your neck someone will just call you the top right No good. No good. Yeah Yeah, yeah, you have for you with one second where you don't know when you look like you don't know what's going on Someone's you're you're owned by someone He's been about it too. It's not we're not that far off. I was listening to this guy Talk about gun control and in his stance was he was like you know our like our great grandparents You know depending on how old you are we're alive back in the old west You know like our great great great great great Let's say just a few great great great grandparents were alive like during the time when you were walking around with a six shooter to protect yourself But now we're so far removed from that. We're like, oh no, we don't need anything. You know we just do weird Civilized society We'll take the facts then you could you get in a fair fight that someone died and that's okay It was team though Great, that was a fair fight. Yeah, yeah, yeah, but it was fair Yeah, oh Okay, a lot of laws a lot of rules since then that's for sure until there's not like yeah You know because those same people are saying like it's not a good idea for us to have guns, but it was an amazing idea for like Fully automatic Say people that want to take them away for us, you know, yeah, I like that they have which I I'm all four two, but you know Which I love that means my pal loved the meme of that I love the meme of the You know saying you know no one should own a gun and then there's the meme of the guy Sanio is hands on his hips and it says like Yeah, it is like Like fuck, you know, it's pretty funny, but I know what you mean my my granddad used to I remember I remember him telling me no as a kid. He's like oh yeah, they were like He's born in 1905 wow my granddad and he lived till he was 93 so I remember him really well And I remember him telling me once he's like yeah, we didn't have a Any gun laws Yeah, no that wasn't like any years later. I think 75 50's something like that when they started yeah like there were no laws at all like None yeah, and they did all right You're working on here. Yeah, yeah, I'm here. So yeah, that's kind of crazy But I'm over here in England now So I don't have to worry about getting shot. I only have to worry about being stabbed since England has the highest violent crime rate in Western Europe Fun fact I don't have to worry about being stabbed for three more days, so that's cool. Yeah We're good. Okay. I got a couple questions. What's what's yeah? Yeah, yeah, let's do that's too slow Had something that I thought this is a perfect question for dusty. I don't know what your response is gonna be But everybody thinks if you just being you know in times trainer and he said This may be a dumb question But how do you confront fear when it comes to working sets? Is it like Justin Harris's widow maker set where he squats 500 for 20 reps and he needs to beat that the next time Well, I'm just a great simple because you're you're looking at a guy who he didn't walk up one day Doing 300 pounds and tomorrow is your 500 yeah, yeah, okay. Yeah, so he didn't just like will it It's not just willing. Here's what I think It gets thrown off and I tell people this all the time and relates relationship to power lefters They're welcome to a bar and knowing I hope I can get this once Once they're gonna unwrack it and go down to the earth or try to pick it up off the ground or down to their chest And there are times they have never done that when I get under a bar that I'm shooting for 20 and I've never done 20 before I'm not worried I'm gonna miss on one Or five or seven and if I do miss yeah, so Like my mind is set to get it, but like nothing's you know, I mean, yes, you get injured but nothing should happen That couldn't happen at any other rep like be at injured. It wasn't because you went for 20 Yeah, like you have to understand that's because that rep range is a safe rep range because I find it dangerous to say Okay, that's 900 go for one and you've never done this Even if you've done eight 70 before eight 80 or eight 90 900 is enormous when you go home for one When you're going another five five hundred for 20 last week and I'm gonna go for five oh five this week I mean worst case down I'm gonna get 18 Right, you know, so yeah, people gotta get that out of the head Yeah, the people also after you've been trained in that long You know, I'll take them in example like Let's say you're trying to squat five plates for 10 We'll just say like a basic straight set with five plates like that's a great squat if you swap five plates for 10 reps You're in like the elite percentage of humans, right and I'll let's try and Instagram and then everybody does it but But if let's say you're squat and five plates for 10. That's your goal for you to put four plates on a do 10 You can be thinking about work Yeah, you can be you don't even have to be there mentally you can just be like You can be having a terrible day and still get four plates for 10 and Your minds all over the place you really are only focusing yourself For like you know that once the you know you really like your performance level without Siking yourself up gets higher You know in a like your default ability to perform without having to mentally like Psych yourself up it rises over time Yeah, when you've been training so long you can just flick a switch and like your form gets perfect and your execution gets perfect Even if you don't get your adrenaline going you're still gonna have a great set but When you want to get the you know, maybe you got 18 before or 19 before and now you're trying to get the 20 That's when you you actually like try to get your adrenaline going You know, that's when you got a mentally focused and get your head really really into it So it's like all that extra effort is for that that last rapper two But the first 18 they're giving Yeah, you know, we've already trained with that weight so many times it's easy like the rest the whole thing's a given Except for those last two reps really actually break a record that's the difference and and you know you might have a bad day and get 17 you know But you still get in there and give her so I Yeah, I joke with um I joke with Ron when we were doing the leg press and Vegas I See yeah, it wasn't it wasn't the first 35 reps that were hard. It was the last five Yeah, yeah because because that's it I mean that's really the truth of it and and like Ron said I think it's funny You'll laugh about this Ron, but the other day I saw a video of a pretty A good pro I know and there was a bar on the ground it was he had 400 pounds on it And he was psyching up to grab it And then he did a deadlift and I was like oh, I just assumed he was rowing Because that's how your brain works once you've been in that mindset before like if I was psyching up for 405 It's not to deadlift it unless I'm doing my 20 you know, so I think people miss that is your perception changes So I've seen guys in the gym doing 225 and Going into a darker place Then I would be doing a 405 Yeah, and I'm like yeah, I'll look at them and I'm like that was a bad asset like I watched them Go so I think sometimes as you're putting too much focus on the number Because Justin Harris is 500 is your 225 it is the same You have to go there for that weight and I think that's what you know Ron made a great point is When he's doing 45 it's truly a warm up. He's just like all right Let me feel him a knees are we drop down You know am I gonna test before I do 5 495 or am I gonna not okay? No, with that He's not thinking yeah, you know, so that's a valid point, but yeah, it's I think that the The key and it's something that that JP talks about is if you are overly amped up find a way to bring yourself down before those sets Don't listen yeah, it's a crazy music bring yourself back down before you go to war and then you're gonna be in a better place You can't be amped up and worried before you get under the bar your fuck Yeah, there's like a certain amount of What I I learned that over the years I look back to like my younger days and I would like You know, we've talked about this is crazy animal psych yourself up and it might be great for that set But Sometimes it's detrimental like overall, you know you get such a crash after stuff like that You know, it can be it can it can you know It can make the rest of your workout a little bit That could take you down a notch if you fry your brain Fucking fry yourself on the first thing so yeah managing your emotions and managing your energy Of course you want to be hyped up and full of energy and all that, but but like we talked about wasting energy Right like when you're just leaking energy everywhere except where you're you know trying to go and I think I did a lot of that I used to leak energy you know You know what I mean this put in too much to out putting too much out not centering yourself and there's something to be said about those zen guys It can just like And then they just go into it bam. Yeah, yeah, so I like that I'd want to think I want to show you guys because this is pretty freaking awesome These are the top cities for the audio downloads in the last seven days So these are these are just cities now I think in some cases What we're looking at here is like maybe roseville wherever that is in the US is a hub So yeah, yeah, you know that is yeah, it's collecting views from areas close by to that area There's some sort of hub there is that maybe where like a central server is or something that's what I'm thinking yeah, yeah, but Check that out See for Colona alone and a lot of times we have a lot of times the top three will be in fact I can never say the name of your city Ron coquit coquit Lum They say that right coquit Lum Yeah, yeah, coquit Lum is often in the top three believe you're not cities Oh, that's crazy, but But I'm laughing at the cities a lot of England there there is a ton of England in that last one is Spain Did I as I hope would you say that DE yeah, and I Hey, and you think of like the the I of man like yeah, there's got to be a server hub there That's that's taking traffic from all over the place. It's just so hilarious I mean, how many you know how many bodybuilders are even on the island of man? Well, at 800 it's here's our area 64 But I wonder where that's drawing from you know because it says Spain in general is our What is it spain is our fourth? Excuse me one two three four fifth highest Country right first first is a us then the United Kingdom then Canada Then Australia then Spain Sweden is at the next space then Germany then the Netherlands New Zealand Romania Belgium Denmark United Arab Emirates France, South Africa So we got people who's over the place, you know, we really do and I just I guess I wanted to take a second just to say shout out to everybody everywhere and if you want to like island man or something shout out to you Thanks for watching Or listening yeah, yeah It is pretty crazy to know there's people in South Africa listening to the show and you know that sort of thing it's uh You know you know, I always give this example we've talked about it on the show a bunch of times But you know in the old days if you had a seminar You'd be happy to get 20 people at the gym for your seminar, you know back in the 90s I didn't some seminars Jim owners would say hey do you want to do a seminar? You know you're the best bodybuilder in this gym. Yeah, you know like you want to do a seminar That's how it used to work You know and And you you'd be happy of 20 people showed up, you know and You'd you'd have a lot of fun and talk bodybuilding and tell stories and sometimes they'd ask technical questions about training and sometimes They'd just want to know who you met in here stories. Yeah, it was like the you know It was the the very very beginning of like the whole concept of this stuff and but it was in person and now you think like someone can listen from New Zealand Look at bizarre You know and I know that we're all jaded by technology and we're all super used to it and you know Quit talking about it wrong, but it is awesome to me like you know It is pretty crazy to see what where we've come and what we can do now You know just with that and you know like I'm on my phone right now and I Feel like my picture is better than on my fucking laptop like I mean get it Yeah, I think your camera is better I think your camera is better I mean I just bought that air-mac like a year ago I mean, why does my camera have a better why my phone have a better camera than my Mac? You know, but that's how it goes funny. Yes Yeah, run right now at this moment Ron looks clear than any of us Which is I tried to do it on purpose with mine, but yeah He also has that custom Ring light so there's that it's like burning my eyes if I stare at it I tell like forced into his face. He actually won't see for the next week. Yeah, I get there Yeah, like I'm giving I'm giving up vision for you Dusty. I'm trying to move on like Best track I'm trying to move this shoot that I planned poorly To Friday so that Dusty can be in it with me. Okay What's that we were gonna do like an hour and a half before I had to be there from the time my flight in the ground. I was like I didn't realize you were here Thursday. I thought you're coming Wednesday I thought it was funny that you actually took those tickets because they were all joking about They were gonna send you on Monday and they did and I was like wow they really did it that's crazy. He's there alone Think God you doesn't have like a business to run anything Yeah, yeah I'm gonna go I'm gonna go see Dino. I'm gonna go see Dino. Well hang on with Dino for a bit nice. Yeah, we'll be good That's the highlight of the trip these are the things I'm looking forward to Yeah, yeah, most is the people and all that so and it's been for ever for me I've been there since we were there last I'm in England in years 2019 That's for oh well I came in 20 did you even come yeah you were here in 2019 that was a year You know I came in yeah I came in night no No 18 Charity came in 19 Yeah, right here. Okay Master Okay Who's there now pokes anyways Yeah How long were you guys lost the fry hopped on we've got an hour show right here. This is it. It was a good place We've already locked it down dude. We did it good. We good we we set our goals we got it done you ate your steak and your lousy sides Do you know what you would have been doing anyway? We would have been just like back at the hotel eating but you did a podcast Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah Well, it's yeah, I'm fine to keep rolling unless you guys are in a hurry He's got he did this for for the for the viewers for mutant For now really Oh We got any more Scott we go a little longer. I don't have to pick it. I've got like ten minutes before I believe What do you do I know you had some questions? I had yeah, I did have that one But you know it or if you've got something else I've got one other. Oh, I do have that one But I thought would be good um and we've kind of touched this before wrong But it's been a minute so do you have what's the most memorable Computing stage moment that you have I know you've got some good ones so you compete with some great guys stage moment Like actually posing and like being on stage I think competing so like not leading into the show but like the show itself is gonna be the way I'm twisting this answer to be my question Okay, well the so there was one that I remember Because of just my mental state um If you've ever had the the privilege of winning a show Which I was lucky to win a couple shows you know I did 24 shows and I want a couple of them you know The moment when you know you're gonna win Sometimes it's when they call your name Right obviously right but then there's other times when you you like oh I'm gonna win the show and I would remember the 99 provincials it was my my my poverty prep that I talk about yes, I I was peeled to the bone like You know chicken inventables diet for like six weeks. It was the roughest diet and I remember there was like seven or eight heavy weights in that show and there were all big guys like 220 to 40 you know that 250 you know like that size and I was 240 And We're pumping up backstage and you know how it is when you're young bodybuilder was only my 23rd Real show and you know, I was looking everyone look pretty good pumping up like those fucking lights above You know You understand it you're doing send there doing curls and you're like that guys arms are bigger than mine Fuck that guys just is so thick you look alright fuck and we walked out and I was just by numerical order. I was in the middle Right, so they just had one big line of heavy weights. They didn't bother doing call notes because there was like seven I think so they just had one line of guys and they just kept it one line and we walked out and we did one around the Manitories and then the head judge I remember his name was Ken and I remember Ken he actually like stood up and kind of leaned forward over the table and he goes run Can you just go stamp on the end Oh I guess it might run it goes hey, hey Ron and he kind of like waved like like this He's like Ron can you just twist down on the end and I was at when I first heard him say it I was like oh, I just got moved to the outside. Oh, yeah, yeah Right, so as I walked down to the end the crowd started laughing And then I stood on the end and then I realized all the judges were just staring at the middle three guys now No, shit okay and I was like oh, I just I just won the class like really easy. Oh, that's so cool I was like oh fuck that's fucking cool Then I was looking at people's faces in the crowd and all the people I knew in the crowd were like Easy, you know I'm going like this and I was like oh, okay fuck But just it was funny to me because I've never ever heard them say that they would say like 12 switch with 14 yeah You know or like five switch with two but just the fact that he's he's he can't run can you just go stamp on the end It was just funny. I'm never for him. We're not looking at you anymore. Could just move or go to the back or yeah It was pretty funny and then Probably the most intense because there's you know I had a lot of disappointing clothes called losses, right? So those are all like you know, there's no special to my heart dusty But but I when you have a close call win You were really remembering and I won this I won the super heavies and oh Seven I didn't win the overall but I won the super heavies and there were 33 super heavy weights So it was a massive class and Ben Pekolsky was in my class that year he showed up for the first time and we all knew Ben was coming He was the kid for my material with the giant legs that's what everyone was like There's this kid for my material with like the craziest fucking pro legs like they're out of this world You know it's gonna be really you know He's you know he's not the most complete guy at the time right but he's his legs are so Not so this could be hard to air. Oh, there's no one's gonna beat up like that's what people were saying and I was like how fuck So I get there and Ben's there and And Right away first call out me and Ben side by side in the middle And and he actually was in the middle right and We get around opposing and then the judges move meat in the middle and the crowd went nuts because it was in my hometown Then we did around a pope was this and then they moved me out of the middle and put him back in the middle And I remember the adrenaline that went through me. I was just fucking Like I was just so amped up as I got a fucking get the center back. I'm gonna get the center back And I was just posing my ass off and being perfect like a robot And the crowd was crowd was going crazy and I could see the judges looking at Ben looking at me Looking at Ben looking at me looking at Ben like this and just going like this all of them Like back and forth every pose and I'm just like all fuck it was so intense We actually did eight rounds of mandatory. Oh hell yeah eight rounds They worked the fuck out of us it was it was by far the most I ever got beat up at pre judging because a lot of times the super heavies were like Call you out two rounds move a couple guys This guy's not in shape. This guy's not in shape. Yeah, that's it that's the top five Yeah, there's first a second. You know But with our our top five call out there's five of us we did eight rounds of mandatory That's up so because they were mixing everybody and me and Ben and then after a couple rounds because then was in the middle For a couple of rounds because they were moving the other guys and I thought they'll fucking done with us And then all the all the sudden they go all the sudden they go wrong back in the middle And the crowd just goes boom and I moved back to the middle I fucking right Like I was just I Have never it was like it was like it was like a football game like I was like I was in my head. I was just an animal hell yeah, we pose and then I remember standing in the middle and the judges were looking back and forth And I remember the one judge had his pen like he was holding this pen, you know and he's pointing it at me Point it at Ben and he's talking to the other judge And he looks at me and I'm still in the middle at this point and he goes Thank you very much. We'll see you this evening That's Who stock You know and we walked up stage and obviously and I only I beat Ben by one point Yeah, that's bad. That's bad. That's bodybuilding right there like that's one point That's what's all about competing that was easily the most intense pre-judging I ever had and it was also extra intense Because it's not like I was battling for third or fifth or something right there was like for the win and And and I remember as we were walking off stage There was a button there was two other guys that also turned pro later so like the top five was crazy Walking off stage and we're we're all like kind of laughing like we were all like holy fuck You're just about fucking kill us And and I remember I didn't know Ben yet like we hadn't really met like we just briefly met and I remember I looked at him and I said Man, that's way harder than when you're in your basement with a sand blowing on you and a cold diet coke and you're girlfriend telling you how good you look And he just cracked out laughing He's like cancel The lights were so hot, right? Yeah, yeah, I was like man, that's way harder than practicing posing in my basement with a fan on me in a cold diet coke Girl for tell me I'll go look and he just fucking laughed and but yeah, what a what a what a great Level of competition and and I mean obviously he was a fierce body builder He came back to an exterior and won the show and turned pro and everything so But yeah, that was probably the most intense like you know Positive you know moment I had That's bad ass dude. That's such a cool story. Yeah. That's just story that I have never heard for the record Really don't know the be fuckers of her yeah Crazy They moved us it they moved you know I got moved out and then they left me out and then I got moved back in and then there was like That's a lesson though for anyone who doesn't practice their posing Yes, yes because had you slipped you were lost no question. So here's here's it so here's the punchline Here's the punchline The following year when Ben beat me and won the overall and got his pro card He came out to me backstage and he shook my hand and he goes I have to tell you something And I go what what's that and he goes last year when I flew home I thought I got ripped off. I thought you won because you were home townboy and He goes and then I saw the video and My fucking abdomen was all over the place and I wasn't holding my poses and you were standing there like a fucking robot You know fuck and then he said I thought about that all year I bet he did About yeah, that's cool. That's what makes people better in bodybuilding I've had people like that where you just think about one guy one guy was I remember This guy he didn't even I didn't even know him but he looked fantastic and he beat me and then the next year I was like I probably won't even see him in the state level show Probably won't even see him his name was Dan Strudgeon It's like but regardless I know I have to be Dan in order to win my class next year Like that's all I knew and I was like I just used that as a tool I didn't hate him or anything but I definitely thought like no I got to be better than this guy It was cool later we ended up becoming friends and then he asked me he asked me if I would coach him Because he was a he was a bigger bodybuilder He had really nice eyes beautiful legs really nice back But he wasn't able to get the conditioning that I had gotten so we teamed up and then we won shows He was he was really good That's awesome, but if that's the cool thing about competing is you know like we want to be better right? We want to we want to improve and that's that like outside catalyst because Ben Pockowski He might have not ever had that kind of control of his posing had it not been for you You you force him to raise the bar, you know Well, I think we we all force each other over time and it adds up and there's some big leap moments where you really get a lesson taught to you And there's a bunch of little lessons maybe you don't even realize you're learning and You know, maybe that is one of the ones, but I'll never forget what he said because he went out of his way to come up to me and tell me that He's when he got home and saw the video. He realized why he didn't win and He's like yeah, you you you out post me you beat me in the back double You beat me and then he told me he goes you beat me in the ab thigh And I've the best legs in the country And it's like so soon the world Yeah, yeah, like and he's like cuz you know You know how guys do that lazy ab thigh where they they do the ab thigh and they hold it for like one second And they can't hold it so then they go to the one arm. Yep, and then they go into other arm and Then they're just lazy. It's just lazy because they can't hold the ab thigh and they're breathing so heavy Whereas I was always able to I don't know if it was from my martial arts training or whatever But I could hit an ab thigh lock it in and just breathe through my diaphragm and I could stand there's a like two minutes It's a really good pose on you, too. You know with your size and your size, you know small waist I think that shot looked really good on you So yeah, it was just one of those things and But you know, hey everyone gets your ass kicked and learn something you know and then Ben beating me taught me a lesson Because that was the year I accidentally got super flat for morning and I remember like the amount of regret I had over what happened. I was like fuck and then you know He came up to me at the night showing he's like what did you do? From morning and I go I drank like a gallon of water and he's like you look way fucking bigger Huh, and I just remember I remember my instincts All morning we're telling me to rehydrate. Yeah, but I was a but I was afraid to because I thought I would lose condition. I was like, oh, I don't want to put water and I'm so dry. Yeah, that was dry and flat Yeah, we're just nothing. Oh, and I remember my coach wasn't there and like he is a really good coach But he was like when you don't look flat in the pictures you just appeared and I'm like, I'm like really flamming I'm nothing going on and he's like well fuck your pictures are like too good Maybe I don't know but he you know he had me drink a bit of fluid But it just wasn't like enough and then after this pre-judging I just fucking guzzled water at a big die-coke Fuck you know, I didn't even eat anything. I just drank and And came back at night just bursting with strations everywhere and it was like you know, and so that was a lesson of mine life You know, we all learned that lesson you're afraid to drink water, you know, yeah And then when you drink when you and all of a sudden you blow up and you look way better and you're like oh, fuck You know, I That's the thing though. This is being willing to learn the lesson is something that I think a lot of competitors don't do anymore They search for someone to tell them why they should have won So why they bring it on the internet and it drives me crazy cuz Ron, I had the exact same thing in reverse in 2013 at North Americans There was traffic I was late to pre-judging like as in I walked in drop my clothes through my arms out Three ladies glazed me and I walked on to the stage pretty much Yeah, and I knew the competitors and I came out and I'm in the fifth place spot and I'm looking at the top five and I know I'm third I'm not one or two they're way better than me I'm third and I get fifth place and I'm like what the fuck Like that is bullshit Then I saw the video and I was Ben Picozki the breathing was a mess because I basically literally ran in I wasn't thinking I was A mess and it showed and after I saw the videos like I'm really glad they put me in the top five Who right I could have gone out of that like it was it was you know The erasing especially for somebody who had competed now four times at the national level like you don't do that It was yeah Roodle so I really think that more people need to do that because I do feel like a lot of athletes in people in general The answer is just why was the most peeled guy? I should have won there are phrases. I was what? Because it's not a who's the most peeled guy Contest and it's not the who's the best guy in these five pictures and they just happened to ask dust It was abs tight for a fucking split second When they were blown out the rest of the time you know what I mean so I think you know the answer to that and what made Ben better What made you better is more people should ask themselves after a show Why did I not win don't say why should have I won yeah? I shouldn't I have won look for that thing that That you didn't do even if you don't agree yeah look for one god damn thing That you could say oh it was that because if not you're not taking ownership and I hate that shit Yeah, can I can I tell you one thing that I tell people and I get really really frustrated when they don't Listen or they don't understand how urgent I think it is But if you know the front relax pose the front double by the front lat spread everything from the front Your your upper quads have to be lit up Yep Adolf you have to be you have to be you have to be split up to your hips at all Fucking times absolutely meaning not one Second that you are on stage should your upper quads not be split and I tell this to people and they go yeah Yeah, yeah And then they walk on stage and their upper quads are not there and they're not split and they may be Maybe they split for a second when they hit a shot and they fade yeah, and then they get third And they go, oh I guess I got to be bigger. I'm like no you gave away at least one spot with your legs at least maybe two you could have one Like the number of times I've seen that and then people don't realize how urgent I'm being like It is a fucking emergency to make sure you can do that It it's it's When you're sitting in the crowd and ten body builders walk on stage and they all stand front relax First thing I do is V tape ring condition across the board yeah V tape ring condition and what's the condition marker the fucking legs Yeah, agreed and And if and if they're not split to the hip I don't know that you're not posing them. I just think you're not in shape and You don't get points for stuff you don't show me. Yeah. Oh Well my legs are shredded. Yeah, they don't look shredded so it doesn't matter It doesn't fucking matter how ripped your legs are if you can't pose them Yeah, and I just I get so worked up when I tell guys like upper quads upper quads upper quads and And you know that there's guys that put a lot of work into it like my training partner Braiden had a real hard time last year at his first show He couldn't get his upper quads. He just couldn't get the mind my mind muscle connection until literally like a week out And then it came and then when he walked on stage He did a great job of like in almost every photo his quads are our our all tight And he wound up winning the overall at his first show, right? So it was awesome But some people just don't they don't they don't realize how urgent it is and it's there's there's you know quads from the front and then like your glutes and Hams from the back that's another thing like when they hit back double biceps in the glutes relax Oh Come on yeah amateur hour amateur hour you don't get to win anything you don't get to win Yeah, you know, but that's that's a we I did that with Dan working with him before the show was I used to I just tell all my clients you have to be perfectly entire time Because if I can't land up as a judge and I see the glutes aren't in I don't go back to look and make sure you weren't hitting I'm like you know second chance. Yeah, he's fat. I'm done with you. He's fat I just move on. He's not fat put him in the middle and And also too as you move up the ranks the judges get less and less forgiving and more immediately ruthless Like at the entry level they might go that guy's more ripped He's not good at posing but he's clearly the best bodybuilder out of these group of five guys Yeah, and because it's an entry level show I have time to look Yeah, yeah But then you get to the extra we're in a super heavy weights. Yeah, let's let's go to let's go to nationals where they got a really long day Edited you think they're gonna give you think they're gonna give every guy every guy a second chance to impress them No not one single second chance. Yeah, you have one fucking job and I tell guys I'm like there's a whole bunch of of stuff that's less important than that like You know the quads being tight in the front shots is such a key because that's the stats that pose You're in for the vast majority of the time you're on stage Right you're standing there in a front relaxed or you're doing a front double or a front last bread It takes up like what 50% of your stage time is standing in the front A lot of it when you're so when your class is big enough If you're not doing that from the front, I don't even need to look at your back Because I don't even look at your back You're done Because they're seven guys that are that are peeled their hip already So by the time you're turning around, I'm looking at those seven Yeah, it's over with sorry, but And they don't get it some people don't get it and they they take their level one posing Then maybe did them well and they just take that to the level two or level three and then they're like What happened? I got my ass kicked yeah, like a level one posing man Yeah, you know and I don't mean to like get so I just I feel like sometimes when I let myself get a little bit urgent about this People actually get the message because they come up to me and say stuff like hey I ran you did I got it, you know But that's you gotta get you gotta listen Yeah, it's just it's just it's really really really really important You know It is it's but it's baffling though because you spend 16 weeks with every single thought being the show And then you leave out something enormous. I had the same thing I'm working with a guy currently that's a classic physique guy and he's not perfectly built for it um and I started seeing his pictures wearing the offseason. I'm like You know your planks and your vacuums I've loosened up a little bit. I go did you notice that I knew That's the most important thing for you. I'd like you to skip rose Huh if need be right like some guys can see a fucking leg game Because you well that's thing is so you know What I'm sorry I lied he is a men's physique guy so he's in the gym blasting his fucking legs And I want him to do that don't be wrong sure, but if I had to trade Then I want to do it as vacuums as planks and Any transverse abdominal work and skipping quads altogether because they're covered Like yeah, you know and again, I mean it's not that I want to do that, but it's funny because people get Away from the stuff that's not sexy But if Ron didn't kill himself in the basement with the fan with a diet coke By the fifth round he would have lost Because eight no one gets ready for eight. I'm sorry like You know no one gets ready for eight court eight sets of quarter turns in me. Oh, it's not that is brutal You're part of the closing of you dumb you're usually like I used to always say okay They're never gonna turn us more than three times so I'm gonna practice five Every day and I never did more than five on stage ever So what I will tell you as you advance again like you said Ron at the Olympia you'll do more than five At the Arnold do more than five Yeah, so yeah, you're right like everything has to go up and in and work, but It's crazy that it gets messed because you'll put all that time and and it's something to be I mean I've done it so I can tell you there's nothing quite like getting fifth when you were good enough to get third And you've deserved fifth maybe even six because you fucked up. Yeah Yeah, you know what what about the What about if we change the question a bit? I mean I think 2013 is probably the year you've mentioned that it was like your was at like your rough here Was at 2012 most humbling No, most humbling show so 12 was the worst year 12 and I mean I was That was the situation I'll never forget because I'm prepping for the show I had a bunch of personal shift going on I was executing everything like I always do and I remember the night before the show Trying to get pictures for Chris and Going to 900 different spots trying to find lighting that looked good and the reason I couldn't find lighting that look good Yeah, I could have I could have been in perfect lighting and it was because the physique just didn't come along You know that was different because it was it was a wake-up call in reverse It was kind of like what we were talking about the other day about money It was don't get ready for a show if you're not in a place to do a show Because I executed perfectly. I've never cheated on a diet my day in my fucking life I've never done one step less of cardio nothing and that show I looked off-season But I got to the stage. I took right hand. This wasn't air and Thank God it was the weakest depth class I'd ever done or I would have taken lower I mean it was right to look at who it only mean yeah, yeah, oh I would have just done worse. I already was more people to do worse So yeah, you know it was just one of those scenarios, but that was again a wake-up. It's like So literally after that show the next morning I was doing cardio and getting ready for the USS Which is just November USA's the end of July. I wasn't literally dieting But I literally said to myself okay eliminate everything from your life that could get in the way People things anything and it was never an issue again because it was again It was a learning thing and it was a broom because People the assumption is you didn't do your diet or you did something wrong It was way worse than that did it all right and nothing worked because I was a moron in my personal life Yeah, yeah Crazy which touches like the money yeah, I think the most humbling experience I ever had on stage Was 2013 at Nationals and it's the only time I ever did the Canada's and didn't make the top five I wound up in six I was in the first call-out But then they added a six guy to the call-out and then they bumped me to six and I didn't know I had no idea I wasn't gonna make top five. I thought I was at fucking shoe in for top five Just because I was looking around the lineup. I was like all I'm not at my best it was a bad year I was injured a bunch of times but I'm here and I'm top five again and then at the night show when they called it when they called the top five finalists and they didn't call my number I remember just being like oh man what the fuck my world My world collapsed on me because I'd never not been a top guy and And there's like 25 guys in the class and I wound up six and it was like a nightmare scenario for me that I didn't make the top five right didn't get to do my posing routine Right only top five pose so I was just a fucking I felt like a nobody I'm like I'm fucking I'm a nobody now but the fuck I get was really really a bomber and Looking back on it I shouldn't have done the fucking show I had two Quad tears during the prep So 16 week 16 weeks out I was squatting with four plates and Like a 50 pound 50 pounds of chain on each side Like heavy squatting so the chains reset to load out of the you know You come out of the hole about halfway up they would load off the ground right yeah Yeah, and as I came up I felt a crunch crunch crunch in my inner inner upper quad And it was and I knew something was wrong. So I racked the bar and I went to squat down and it hurt So I was like oh fuck I think I just tore something my leg looked fine like I didn't tear anything off the bone But I tore some muscle fibers badly because my leg turned purple and We went to the honor classic the following week and I was at the booth all weekend with a big swollen purple leg You know I had a compression I had a compression sock on and everything and it took about a month before I could train quad again So now we're 12 weeks out Right and we're 12 weeks out and I'm like okay everything's going good I'm losing weight my prep's good. I just now that my legs fine. I can train it again, right? I'll be fine. I'll be fine. I'm going to eat eight so I can win and even though I got an injury Right whatever So my quad's feeling good. It's feeling good. I'm fine and then about three weeks out I was leg pressing and my upper outer quad Popped You know that upper outer quad poppuff. You've ever had that happen and Right away it was really sore really hurt. I couldn't put weight on it and we're three weeks out And I'm like well fuck and So I was trying to do some light extension see at the blood in there, but my leg was all smooth and it took While the show was three weeks away and it took four weeks for the fluid to go So like I went to the show and I had one quad that was harder than the other But in my head I'm like well, I'm I'm 262 I'm in good shape And I'm always a top two guys so I'm gonna go there and kick some ass and cross my fingers and I'll just show them the good leg and I can pose around this and I got this I was just indistinguishable nothing's gonna stop me I'm not I don't pull out of shows are you kidding? That's where people that tear packs and shit I didn't tear anything bad enough. I'm still fine and Then I went to show I'm got six and then afterwards the judges were like yeah you're conditioning Conditioning in your cuz you know how judges only have a few seconds to look at you Of course and they're like yeah, you're conditioning in your legs just wasn't on par with how you normally look But it was really one leg But they don't know they don't have the time once they're scanning across They just they're done with you. That's how immersive that you know They're not gonna take the time to figure out why one leg is watery right? They give you you give you points for it Yeah, and and I just remember afterwards I was like I'm such a fucking idiot I could have looked in the mirror and See that I wasn't Ready to win the whole fucking show I mean I got some shot I got some shots from that show. I got a side chest pose right just like fucking huge Because one of the things was I knew my leg wasn't like I knew that like taking Diaretics doesn't get swelling out right so I thought well I better be full So I ate and loaded for that show like my chest was like my side chest was just fucking enormous and I remember thinking I remember in my hotel room. I was like I'm not the leanest I've ever been But I'm fucking big Like I'm I win this and then it just doesn't matter everybody else is big too buddy You know of the reverse Yeah, you got it, you know we get we get stuck in our heads and you know I was just thinking oh, I'm I don't quit. I don't quit. You know, because that's how I always was like it doesn't matter What I'll just fucking figure it out, you know, but then that that I remember the flight home from that show was a lot of like what a waste of time money Drugs Just everything possibly growth that could have went for next year Last time the else season I think it's funny that you have the reverse things too though because the the first USA's I did Wow as backstage I was just looking around and Scott that was 2010 so Jason hell one that year okay Oh, yeah, everyone in the top 10 is a pro now I'm super heavy. I mean, but I'll never forget I was on a backstage. I'm looking around and I get on stage and I got done and I was in the top five and all those thing in the whole time It's God these fucking guys are so big You know and I don't have pretty shake So I was like this is brutal and I come out and a C2 goes you are fucking massive that was like I am Then I saw the pictures I was like I'm ugly as fuck, but he's not wrong Yeah, I look really big next to these guys Yeah, because I think in my head I just knew they were all better so I mean it was like I'm smaller and I'm together. I'm fucked. You know what I mean? Did you guys see the video of that like that poor sport Guy that was like yelling oh, yeah, did you see that video? Oh, yeah, yeah That was from somewhere in the middle east wasn't it because there was like some Not sure if it was just like an Arabic page I was on or if it was a Middle East show But the guy like sat down on the stage too didn't he? Yeah, it was unreal real. They were called I can't remember what it was but there somebody caught on the Iranian bumps. Why's the Iranian bumps that so mad? Oh, it's because he was like he had a good he was put together. He was he looked great But he was pissed about some Yeah, he was like yelling at the judges and fucking making a big scene on stage and yeah, and he had a little sit in I don't know that was about protesting something. It's always good for you They'll usually change it for you on the spot if you just sit down. I love that I should have tried that in 2012 and maybe I'd have got my pro card then even though I socked There's just sat on the stage. Steve would have been like yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm gonna do my pro card. Yeah Well, you know It was nice. We're smashing my most painful competitive memory with you guys But you're up. I can all we can all go be sad now. I'm gonna go have sex. But I gotta go So so so so so so here's a lesson for everybody you got to learn from your mistakes and and You didn't win the show because you didn't deserve to win the show How's that? It's a good lesson. You know what the best advice I was ever given it was so great From one of one of my early Coaches was don't give them a choice Yeah, the biggest most ripped Best posed if you do all those things you don't give them a choice But if one of those things that weakness they now have a choice and fun to have a choice disagree Yeah, yeah, and and I One of the most common things people ask me is is You know because I got you know all those second places that pro qualifiers, right? So people often ask like oh that must have really you know Fubble black and like obviously there was a couple years where I thought I was gonna win just because of what I thought Like we know so I was upset but I never ever ever Carried at any where past that because I always thought it's my own fault for allowing it to be close Yeah, like because you know like if like I lost a couple one point decisions and I lost a couple where I had You know two judges had me first and four judges had me second or whatever You know it's yeah my fault You know so what if a couple judges had me first who gives a fuck? There's seven judges you need four of them. It's your own fault and if you're only trying to get four of them That's another mistake should be trying to get seven of them Yep So yeah, you just close calls or losses. Sorry. That's just how it goes and you can't do a lot of or blame anybody and You know sometimes I hear people complain about their placing and I'm like Fuck don't complain to me Never a good look So anyways If you got to go dusty Yep, I got to pick up children Okay, well remember to Like share subscribe comment and Ring the bell We didn't do that at the beginning we needed run How did the fucking show without even we did that we did this thing like you did on a podcast wrong We were talking and then we just next thing I know we were in the show and then you were here and You know you had it and I was running behind you're fucking discount code because you were here and it was crazy Thanks for you Yes, remember I am mutant dot com Big Ron 20 Thanks everybody Thanks everybody remember it's just body building Yeah, there we go

on the same applies, you know, if you want to eat North, you will find the way and sometimes eat camp, but there's still decent meat to be out of, roadkill if you get the right stuff. So here's the, I think my moral story. Guys, if you're going to complain about tuna fish, just remember, there's another guy eating roadkill right now. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Drugs and Stuff with Dave Crossland. All of our programming is brought to you by True Nutrition.com. You can use our code, think for additional savings. We're brought to you by Strom, Sports, Nutrition. If you're in the UK, that's a great performance supplements, health supplements over there. We're brought to you by Eval. Of course, go to Eval blood analysis. If you're new UK, get your blood worked done by Dave, supplement source.ca for Canadians. They have awesome deals that change week to week. Of course, we're brought to you by you. Our awesome people at Patreon. Thank you guys for all the support you've given us. And yeah, we're going to do our PG episode first, Dave. But following movie, it's rated PG. How do you like that? Do you like apples? Do you like apples? Do I like apples? Yeah. This sounds like it's going to be a loaded question. Will do you like apples? I like him in apple pie. Well, then how do you like the apples? No, this was that was cool. I was very, very poor. Oh, no. I know. I met the age of all I can start doing dad jokes. So we've got a topic today. No, you can't start doing dad jokes. Yes, I sure can. No, you come on. You're jokes. You're just terrible. Don't stop trying to make these use to the dad jokes. You're just incredibly low quality. Thank you for editing yourself. I heard it and asked where coming out. So we do have a topic today on our PG episode. And that is going to be, listen, I was at the grocery store recently and I feel like one dozen eggs cost a lot more than it used to. My local grocery store, I had a place where I was buying eggs for like $70.9. $79. And that was just a few years ago. Now they're like, I think $29.50 per egg. I mean, they're not really, but they're way more expensive. We are in an egg crisis. Not only in that, but we're like in a food crisis. Everything is more expensive. I can't get out of the grocery store without spending a couple hundred bucks. Sometimes we go to the grocery store. We end up with like three bags. And I'm like, how did this cost $110? And honestly, I've asked myself, I love stuff. Yeah. And then I keep, I'm starting to ask myself, I'm like, man, imagine if I were new to body building. And I'm trying to pound the food constantly, how am I going to be able to grow under these conditions? So we thought that would be a great topic to talk about. Because this is definitely going to separate the people who really want it from the people who just, you know, kind of think it might be a fun idea for a few months. Because body building is getting expensive. There's never a cheese but. Steal the chicken. Then you got eggs. You. But eventually a chicken. When you tell you the eggs. Yeah. Well, that's that's what you see. You steal the chicken. And then you can eat the eggs. Or if you want, you can grow more chickens. And then you've got chicken and eggs. Yeah. I don't know if that's the type of information that people were expecting us to provide. Because I don't think that most people out there. I mean, it is a great idea. Don't get me wrong. I like that. Also, you can look at alternative protein sources. Like what? Pigeon? Can we think of some foods? Because what is it? It's going to number one. I think protein is always going to be the hardest. Oh, the most of the things. Yeah. I mean, carbs of chips. You shouldn't have any issues with getting carbs on a budget. I mean, you can put a slice all those other things. They're cheap. They are cheap food to us. Proteins are always going to be the difficult one. And it isn't cheap. So there's two ways you couldn't look at it. It's one thing is how do I reduce the cost of the food I'm buying. I mean, and two is a broad spectrum budget in about looking at where your finances going general and how much you want to prioritize what it would. That's true. And one of the reasons I don't even know if you have cost a coffee in America, you have Starbucks. I think mainly, but we have an alternative rank or cost a coffee in the UK. I went there when I was in the UK. I hit the economy as good. So last week I had to go to Birmingham with a friend of mine as a favorite for him. And we called it cost a coffee. We got a couple of large coffees. And you know what, they were Nion the Tener. There what? Uh, Nion the Tener. Nearly 10 pounds for the two coffees. Can you see that freeze again? Because that was fascinating to me. Nion the Tener. Nion the Tener. Nion the Tener. Nion the Tener. Yeah, so Nion is nearly a Tener. So if I walked up and I already just say that to somebody in England, like just randomly off the street and I was like Nion the Tener. They would know because no because it's not in context is it? It's interesting that. It was nearly 10 pounds about a two coffees. Yeah, that's like yeah, that's expensive man. You see, I got I feel old now I say this is like so near nonsense for a coffee. It doesn't eat. Yeah. So yeah, but that's the point isn't it, you know, that you can look at how you budget in order to have more available funds for what you feel is important. But that's all to where you are in your priorities. I mean protein sources actually, you can get lucky in the sense of if you can afford it that you buy and bulk in the first place. Yeah. Because then you can start buying a wholesale prices. So I used to regularly buy half a cow or half a pig. Yeah. And stuff like that. And I've been able to actually do that when I was in Canada as well. I used to go to the local slowhouse and buy half an item. Ron Partlowe was talking about starting a business like that, the like mail order, meat kind of thing where you buy a half a cow or whatever. That sounds like a great idea. If a you can afford that to buy it all at once and be you have the storage space because you're going to need it quite a freezer. The other than the other element to look at is most supermarkets, grocery stores, what have you going to call them? We'll have a discount section for the fresh meat. Oh yeah. Yeah. If you can come on and it's way out or whatever. Yeah. You just go in. Last thing at night and you'll learn from your local supermarket when they go around, you can literally ask the cast. I've went to you mark down the meat when you put it out for, you know, get rich eat. And then just go in ten minutes before that. Literally stunned at the fridge that they do it in. And then fill your shop and trolley, take your home and freeze it and use our needed. So there are ways around things like that. It's going to take more work and ingenuity is what you're saying. It's what that comes out too. Also prices aren't the same at every store. So you may find I found in the past that I'd go to one store to get this and it's a pain in the butt. But then if you go to this other store, the eggs are a lot cheaper or the beef's a lot cheaper, you know, and it's like, well, most supermarkets will have something on offer as well. So you buy a cord into what special offer, you know, buy minced meat rather than steak or chop, or piece of the meat in that nature because it's cheaper. Yeah. You can buy higher fat minced meat, which is very cheap, and then just slow cook it and take a much of the fat hours you come that way. So you end up with a lean minced. You can wash fat or meat too. Like if you have a ground 8020, after you're done with it, you can put it through, what do they call that? Like it's like a pasta thing where you have the net that it sits in, whatever that is, and then you can literally wash that meat and literally take like a paper towel even and press the fat out of it. Is it a pain in the butt? Yeah. And does are you losing some weight? Yeah, I don't know, but it is cheaper, you know, I don't know how about my bite. But yeah, I used to use a lot of liver because it was cheap. Yeah, I have a client that just asked me about that this week. And it's really, it's interesting. So I never used liver before with a client. He said, hey, can I do this? I have a buddy that's really in deliver and I gotta take this ice off my elbow. I said my elbow. I have tendonitis right now. And there's glycogen. There's there's carbs in liver. I never knew that. So I'm looking at it and we try to figure it out. So it's the stored glycogen in the liver. There's like seven grams of glycogen of carbs per four ounces. So you do have to consider it that. But you know, hey, you can grow with that. There's no question. Yeah, I mean, I've used liver in the early days because I couldn't afford and then I do stuff like, you know, if tuna was on offer, I'd buy tuna fish. Stuff like bazaar, river cobbler, they cheap cuts of fish. And tuna. Yeah, I'm fishing is relatively stable price-wise as well. So you can get things like that. You can go for the less desirable fish that is obviously cheaper. It's still good decent protein content. It's still good enough. It's not the stuff that people want. So there's looking at the alternative cuts. Me, you know, again, again, the meat that are probably fat here and less popular, but they're cheaper and then just slow cook, let the fat come out. Yeah, that's not a bad idea at all. And carbs are going to be easier. But I mean, everything has gone up in price. I've seen, you know, I mean, you can go to Costco and get a big old bag or rice, like a big old 20 pound bag or rice for a decent price. And that's going to last you a while. Unless you're Dave Kraslin, you told me during under construction those days how quickly did you go through one of those great big Costco bags of rice? Well, I did a kilo dry away at rice a day. So I used to buy the 20 kilo socks. Yeah, geez. Yeah, I used to buy the big big socks. That's amazing. I mean, I used to buy socks of potatoes, but the problem with that was you, you really need to be eating them because they don't keep very well. Yeah, I could see that. But the other thing is, like, what we're going to say, yeah, you can't prep them all. Yeah, you can par boil them. I'm freezing. And then they'll keep forever. Yeah, that's true. But if you leave in the sock, we'll start to root and everything. So, uh, it's going to go deal with. Depending on what time of year it is, rom things giving, they had sweet potatoes or yams on sale that were like a crazy price, like 50 cents a pound or something. So I just loaded up on yams and, you know, it's, it, I became flexible. And I decided, well, okay, I'm going to use, apparently I'm using more potatoes this week, you know? Yeah, and I mean, that's, that's really what you have to do. Yeah, you're, you're protein intake in your food source has come very much depicted by what's on offer. You might try and keep a meal in every day that the, the slight say lean ground beef or something. But you just end up, your diet will flex around what is on offer that week or that month or whatever it is. And, and you're just going to keep your eye open for the bargains, you know, and it might be that you go around the store and, and this week, that brand of, of microwave rice packages, very cheap or very brand of tuner is very cheap and then a couple of weeks later it's something up. And you just have to shop around that. So yeah. It's not that you have to completely change your diet in the sense of macros, but you do have to be very flexible with what those macros are coming from. Yeah. I mean, you know, you'll go in some days and it might be prawns, you know, the, the doing thing from prawn, you know, we can't shrimp that that's the same thing, right? Yeah, yeah. So you, you can work around things like that as well. So, but I'm seasoned to help. So Christmas. Yes. You go in just after Christmas. Turkey's are fucking dirty. Yes. So flipping the cheap art turkey's they're very good. They present very good value from on it. It's a really PG episode. Yeah. So you, you know, you just go and buy four five turkeys. Yeah. Put them in the freezer. Cook one up, break it down into your meal boxes, do another one. And you, you can probably get a once worth of protein, literally out of buying the turkeys in the sales post Christmas because every supermarket I was stopped and they need to get rid of it. Yeah. I've seen like a big pork lines that are on a really good price. They'll have those on sale and you can just chop those right up and you could trim the fat right off of them too. And you know what, too, if you, if you, if you do have to, if you do make compromises there, then maybe you can look at, well, what are my fat intakes look like? Are you getting direct fats? Maybe if you're eating a fatty or meet this week, that means you're going to want to eat less of the, the actual planned fat that you plan to use. You know, maybe you have avocado or almonds or whatever else, you might not need quite as many of those because you are getting the fats then from the meat source because it's not quite as clean. But man, especially for somebody that's trying to grow muscle, we have that leeway. You know, it doesn't have to be just, you know, 99% fat free ground turkey every day in order to grow muscle, you know, you can, you have the freedom to be able to, to be able to have that leeway, and you'll still grow. You, you can lean it up literally by throwing it in a slow cooker. There you go. Because you slow cooker meet overnight, even with a higher fat content and you'll come in. And you'll see fat floating on the surface, you just give it off clean it off. And you'll re, you'll reduce the fat content massively just by doing that, which gives you more leeway than cheap because anything else we should add to any other directions besides meat. We talked a little bit about carbs. Fat, obviously, same division. Yeah, I mean, you're protein sources. I think people overlook fish a lot. When people want to get things they like the taste of, and they're like, well, I don't like fish. That's really what I think a lot of it times it comes down to. But I'm sticking a sauce. Get some zero calorie sauce. I mean, I cannot stand the taste of liver. I hate it. Really? But you, I ate it for years. Covid in zero cow or low cow sauces. So all I could actually taste was the sauce. Yeah. Man, I saw a jar of mayo. Somebody posted a picture of it. It was like $18 or something somewhere. I don't know. It wasn't Canada. Like the food went up faster and higher there than it did here in the US from what I've seen. But yeah, I encourage people to think creatively. We do have a couple of listener questions here like I said. We're doing our PG episode. Let's see what I got today. I mean, you can be incredibly creative. You want to be from the point of view of you can go fish for your own food. You can go trap rabbits for your own meat. Oh, yeah, you can, you can hunt. Yeah, you can, and that's something that's probably much more viable in the States and Canada than it actually is in the UK. It's not something we really have a lot of over here. Rabbit in fishing. Yeah, but hunting something like a deer. No, that doesn't really happen much. Do you guys have anything over there? We too, but they're not like the big things that you tend to see in the States. They tend to be able to small the breed. Okay. We have a tail here in Michigan and they're not as big as like the mule deer that you'll see in other states. But that you can get a lot of meat off that you can literally be eaten for months. So I said that there are all turn it. It's as well. I mean, I know, so it's a friend of Mador is actually like, and he's he, he does a lot of roadkill. Oh, now we're now we're getting hardcore here. Well, you know what I mean, if you're on your ass, I mean, you know, we say still fly this and then you'll see videos of African guys lifting tires and lumps of concrete some bits of wood for weights because they haven't got anything else because they don't have a gym where they are. They make it up. And the same applies, you know, if you want to eat enough, you will find a way and sometimes eat camp, but there's still decent meat to be out of roadkill if you get the right stuff. So here's the, I think, my moral story. Guys, if you're going to complain about tuna fish, just remember there's another guy eating roadkill. Right now, right now. Right now. You know, the, the, the so many different ways you can get food sources if you just start thinking a little bit out of the box and stop thinking that I have to walk in the supermarket and buy it. Yeah. Yeah. What's the same say he says? Now I'm curious what British roadkill usually is in the US we get deer as roadkill. Well, it can be good eating. I tell you a story. So in, not where I live now, but where I used to live, there was a, a slightly bigger village nearby called Homeford. And there's a river stream run right through the middle of it. And as a result, there's quite a few ducks about. Okay. One day, and I don't understand why I wasn't driving for I was literally going about four, five mile an hour and they still just flew and landed and literally landed and police head under my from where oh, don't you can me go on dead. All right. Nothing I could do about I could stop. I could hit one in the defense. I almost got a scroll the other day, same thing across the road and it's icy out and I'm driving and he literally last second dive back in, I had to look at my mirror thingfully and didn't get him. Now the guy who I was referring to was in the village saw this happen. That duck was up in any scar within a minute. And he cooked it and he had duck for his day that night and it was decent food. You know what I mean? So there are opportunities even over here. You can eat head jog. All right, you don't want it if it's completely squashed. Rabbit is an extremely good source of lean protein. It's actually a bit too lean. So you know there are, I'm this still wild boar in certain areas in England. So you can go get a pig. I hear that's real. I mean, real gamey tasting is hard to cook for, but they do that in Texas too. They just because they're an invasive species that they damage the land and stuff. You know, I mean, there's a lot of things when you start really getting into the real base stuff because you really are on a budget. If you box clever, you can find it. Yeah. All right. One more message here on that top it before we jump onto a couple of questions. Brandon says I still stand by a college cheese as a cheap protein source. One tub is 146 grams of protein for $5. Three months of eating one tub a day and I'm still feeling good working nights doing manual labor. It makes for a good lunch and I just slowly while I work and I'm good by morning for meal one. So hey, there you go, right? I like it. She's I use it as a night time for you to incline. So I think the problem is a lot of people don't like the taste. And you know what, too? It's what can you digest? Maybe it's good for some guys and not for others, but yeah, definitely suggest that people experiment. So we had a couple of questions Dave for our rated PG segment, which a lot of people still enjoyed it even though we didn't talk about all the gear and stuff last time around. I'd like to take a moment to say thank you to our supporters, thank you to the people who have helped us make this show continue to come out several times per week. So number one, thank you to our Patreon subscribers. And if you know one of our Patreon subscribers, you can thank them directly because they're the biggest driving force right now that's helping to support this show. If you want to take part in Patreon, we can use all the help we can get. We vote with our dollars and I want to say thank you to everybody who is voted for us. Also, I want to say thank you to our advertisers. You guys have directly supported what you're doing. You believe in us and I only work with advertisers that I believe in, too. Shopping with them is shopping with us. Use our code, thank at True Nutrition, shop with Strom Sports Nutrition in the UK, and shop with SupplementSource.ca in Canada. I'm happy to talk and give you insight on any other products or if I don't know, I can direct you to somebody that will appreciate you guys tuning in and thank you for all your support. Let's get back to the programming. Bill 9, who was once known for his science programming, he's in the body building now apparently. Question for the next show. What do you guys do if you are moving up in weight or reps on your logbook? But then you have a date where you're just noticeably weaker. I clearly can't beat the logbook on this day. What do you do? Everything is the same diet, sleep, etc. Just every now and then, I have a weekday. Do you still try to push the weights? What I do? Which I do and I get frustrated as I can't move the same poundages. Any tips would be greatly appreciated. It was a great question for people that are doing progressive overload. I hate all the books for this exact reason. You kind of know get strong every week. You just if you did then every pilot from record in the world be getting beaten every week. Very weak. You just doesn't happen. You're going to have weekdays. You're going to have days where you drop back. You're going to have days where you stagnate. Particularly when you start looking stuff around illness, I could always tell when I was going to be ill because the workout before my strength would drop through the floor. No, it's simply, I mean, I'd lose 40, 60, even 80 kilo off a big lift. You know what I mean? I really would dramatically know. It's like, yeah, I'd feel fine. For me, though I agree with progressive overload and at least a foundation principle that I think should be employed in what we do. We need to progress. We need to be progressing. We need to aim to progress. For me, the workout is based on the damage, the fatigue, the connection with the muscle untrain it, not on the load I move. If one week or one session I find that my current benches, just for arguments, say 200 kilos, six reps and a guy on one week and I work or you will know before you get to that weight. If you're a pyramid and nothing weight, you will know that you're not on full. You will know that 200 is not coming or you're going to struggle with it. So I'd probably just sit at 180 and push a few more reps out or sit at 170 and just push a few more reps out. Because at the end of the day, the goal of my workout is to stimulate muscle response. Yeah, not to move X amount of pounds or X amount of reps. And if on that day, I can't move the load that I would have programmed into moving. Then I'll move the less a load just for more reps and still create the same level of intensity. I think that's a great method. There's no question. Being flexible, I think is a key. Is that the theme for today? Being flexible with your diet in the food you pick? Being flexible with the gym. Well, I don't think you're going to be careful here because I don't think you can be flexible with effort and intensity. I think that always has to be whatever is your best on that given day. And it's not always going to be the same. You know, some days will be better than others. Had a shit nicely stressed whatever it may be, Mr. Meal, but sometimes performance in the gym is going to alter. Yeah. But as long as you're giving as much as you can give on that day, then you're not going to go wrong. Irrespective of whether you move the loads you'd like to have moved that time. Agreed. And I always said trigger points where once they achieved a certain range or weight range, then I'd increase. So I'll always focus on being progressive if. But if I found I wasn't on point one day, I might even pull the weight back even further and go right, you know what? Today I'm going to go really tight on form. I'm going to go really control. And I'm just going to focus on engagement rather than shifting poundage. Yeah. I agree with you. Now, I agree with you that even if you are doing, I'm not against progressive overload first. And I think that to me, my definition of it is more like what you're saying Dave, it doesn't have to be that that that that's it for years. I didn't like progressive overload because I just felt like how can I repeat this workout after workout and still progress each time because yeah, you do have that variability and how you're going to feel. And you know, first thing I'd say to him is he said that for no reason there was no reason he was just noticeably weaker. Now, there is very well the chance that you know, there were no differences that he noticed. But there was I would I would challenge him first to pay as close of attention as possible in reflecting on those days. You might not notice it, but there were something there was something different. Maybe it wasn't in your control. But I do think that the more time you spend focusing on these things, the better we get at being able to kind of predict, you know, what could cause the issues. Even if there things that you can't correct, there's going to be something. There was a reason. So I would say that even if you can't change it, try to identify it. And yeah, there are going to be days when you get in the gym and you pick the weights up, you're warming up and let's say you pick up the 50s and they just they just fly off the rack. They don't even feel like you're holding the weight. And then you grab the 70s and they just once again, no problem off the rack. You just feel it in your hand when you pick them up. They feel lighter today. You know, your warmups all feel better. And you know that you're going to push hard. You know, it's going to be a great work out. You're going to be able to progress. I would agree with you. What would I do if I got to that point where I recognize it's not one of those days? I would probably do the same thing. I would work in a lower rep range. And you know, it's almost like a look at like periodization. I know that for me, when I've been able to push it, my absolute best, one of the exercises I used a lot was the dumbbell in client press. And I knew that when I got to my ultimate strongest, like when I was able to get the 125s up for I think seven reps, I knew that I was not going to repeat that the following week. But I could still train hard. So I might back it down, you know, if I could get the 125s for seven, then I could get the the 110s, which are they're going to feel light now. You know, I'll be able to get them for at least an easy dozen, right? And then I might go to that and then begin to build back up. So I usually what I would find is I'm not going to always go 125s to the 130s to the 135s. It never worked for me that way. But I would find that I could do like one week it'd be the 110s. And next week the 115s and then I'd get to the 120s and that would be like really, really hard. And then from there I'd know, okay, I'm going to go back down to the 110s. And I would pyramid back up again. The next week I'd go heavier, the next week I'd go heavier, and eventually I'd get back to those 120s or the 125s, whatever that top weight again. In this time hopefully I could get more reps out of it. I progressed to that way for like two years straight. Still only playing in like the the 100 to the 125 pound range of dumbbells and I progressed and I grew and I was way stronger by the end of that. See I've never deliberately pulled back but I will pull back if my body tells me to do so. Well that's what I said, right? Yeah, that's what I said. You did the 127s or 125s in your scenario and then the next week you went back down to one to I wouldn't I'd go for them again. Here's the thing is I've learned that if I if I felt like I could heck yeah I would. There's no question in my mind. I wouldn't like just pull back because but generally after I get those 125s I'm absolutely wrecked. Like that was the literally the heaviest thing I'd ever done in my life and my body would require it. Question for you. Yeah. How do you view progression? Progressive overload. Being able to do more than you did before. See I'd I don't. I view progressive overload as an improvement in what I'm doing. That's more than that's more. Yeah, well okay I was thinking you were referring to weight rather than so for me because of overload is always based around just you gotta do something to take a start. We don't have to talk in what's with the same time. Sorry my good lady has lost her car keys. Uh-oh. What do you need a foot? What's a great DS3? All right well don't know where they are. Dave must well then it should be on the side. So I think a lot of people view progression as linked to either weight or rep. Yeah, I don't find it that black and white. Yeah, I find progression to do every I can do the same way you do the same reps but the rep tempos slightly better or better control. Better control, better, or engagement slightly better. So there's all those aspects as well that come into progression which I think a lot of people they focus way too much on reps and weight when what we're aiming for in a gym is to stimulate growth. So what we should be focused in on stimulation. Yeah. Not not reps and not weight though they need to be considered. They can't be ignored either. I mean it is still you're still driving to get bigger and stronger. Yeah, if I could say get the 125s for the dumbbell and kind press for seven, let's say I get it for the first time. It's probably not going to be the cleanest set I've ever done but I was able to get the 120s with like a super super clean clean technique. So it's not like I just threw it all out the window. It's just there's a little bit of room for improvement. You know what I'm saying? And so with that then and say I got the seven reps. Maybe I only get seven reps the next time but the technique is better. You know, and to me that is still progressing. Yeah, I mean I used to deliberately loosen up on certain exercises to break into new weight plops. Yeah, right. Ben Everow was a very good example. For Brent Everow I'd get a bit rhythmic on the heavy stuff and then once I got comfortable with the way I'd start a tie in the reps and clean it up and clean it up and then I'd push it getting to a more weight that would be loose but the proceeding rate would be much tighter now and that's how I would progress. Yeah. All right we got one more here. Davey still can't find the key. So did you lose? Did you take the key? Did you drive back so far? I drove so I drove a new car back this morning. Okay. And I have no idea whether keys are. Dave asks the keys. We're watching Dave's life on an uncoil. I probably haven't. I probably haven't. Did you check in the box where the key was before? Remember when you guys lost the office keys? No, I probably haven't lost the keys but she just isn't fucking seen him but she's in a boat so. It's it's a birthday today. Oh you're kidding me. Oh so because she's gone over cars she can take I said you said you have a bloody car and she's like no I don't want to take that. I'm going to call you where they're talking about. All right last question of the segment. Have you guys ever dealt with an inbelecle hernia? Is it manageable to continue training and to compete with it? Thanks. Competition wise bodybuilding you'll get marked down. It's a visual deformity you will get marked down. Or I won't see you get marked down. It will detract from your physique and some of the equal physique will place higher than you because of the hernia. Yes I've had one. Yes I've had it repaired but I didn't for very very long time. It never bothered me. I only did it. Well basically because the offer to repair it's was like oh I find I've gone do it. Nice. I was lucky my recovery was fast. I was literally about to fall power in two three weeks. Most people are probably they tell you some of ridiculous like eight weeks of no lifting but most people are probably going to find themselves able to start back in the gym sort of three weeks post off. Okay. The first week you're going to be in a lot of pain and even standing up straight in the first week is going to be difficult. Oh yeah. I want I want you now the first toilet visit post up is horrendous. Oh you better have a lot of fiber in your diet. That's going to hurt like a bitch. But once once you get over that first week as soon as you start getting mobile you'll find the recovery starts to speed up quite yeah this is a real common issue for people living on a building. This is a real common one from bracing you know pressing out. I got a little diagram to share with the audience here. So that's what it looks like and if you get that the problem is it'll keep pressing and keep pressing eventually your intestines could pop out. So you don't want to let it I mean there there could be it could be life threatening if you were to just let it go and keep tearing it. And once you tear a piece of paper and then you mess with it it's just going to keep tearing. So it's how long was your recovery I a client's a mine if had about four weeks was what it takes. Oh by the way she found her keys I didn't have them. Good job. Because she just left in the car. I didn't even tell you that it's just kind of in left. Well that's it should be in the off because it would be like oh you didn't have the mump. Yeah. Well it would be my folks I put them somewhere stupid. For weeks about recovery time? Yeah I'd say so depending on what level you're lifting that you may need and have a one or two. I think a lot of these confidence as well having the confidence to push out again because that's always an issue coming about from injury is he's having the confidence to load what was the injury. Yeah. Yeah. So that that's a big factor as well. We'll wrap this thing up for PG segment of the week. We appreciate you guys hanging out with us and talking about the stuff of drugs and stuff. Guys go to evelebladinalysis.com get your lab worked done by Dave. Go to our great sponsors trinutrition.com and use our code think. We just got some of their beat root powder which I started using for nitric oxide while training. I'll keep you guys posted about that. I'm also good to strom sports nutrition. If you're in the UK, lots of great supplements there. And of course supplement source.ca for our Canadian people. Go to Dave. Crosslist.org.uk. Reach out to him for coaching. McNally diets at gmail.com. I'd be happy to talk to you. For another episode of drugs and stuff with Dave Crosslist.com. McNally. We'll see you soon.

Hey everybody welcome to it's just body building. I'm a big round part low and of course Dusty handsha and the producer Scott McNally Of course wouldn't have it any other way Remember like share subscribe comment and Yes, exactly remember I am mutant calm But I'm eating calm get your ice will surge get your all in get your big greens and of course your mind FK and And everyone should be on the gear so get on the gear. Yes, I am mutant calm go there order your stuff Save 20% Help us out use Ron or Dusty as your code save money don't have to leave the house delivered right to your doorstep extremely fast delivery Avoid people I keep thinking this is very important I don't know why more people aren't listening people people people people people people people people You suck yes, so there you go I'm in calm I wonder if that's a message they want us to give people I know we'd be a new t-shirt mutant people suck Yeah, mutin avoid people yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I am mutant calm. Yeah, I don't know if they're perfect shirt I don't think it would work for me. So And everybody's fired. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know it has a job. Yeah, it goes our sponsorship that sucked So everything's been going really good. I've had a great couple of weeks I have to say not like I want to be one of those old guys that talks about the weather, but we have so far avoided the brutal Ugly heat that we sometimes get in August It's just knows up there but the iglesan all that oh no we get like wow I could take what you guys would call like hundred plus days Yeah, we get a bunch of those in August usually Haven't had any yet we're in easy street on easy street because I hate that stuff Yeah, so I'm just kind of like this for the rest of the month. You know I'm hanging in it. How are you guys doing? fantastic I'm just Amped because We got bodybuilding like full swing. I'm going to my first big show like National level show in years next week. I'm going to the North Americans. Oh shit I haven't been an age this man. Oh, I love that show. I don't think I've went since like 15 so it's probably like a decade since I've been And I'm staying in my same hotel that used to stay when I competed. Yeah, that's the host hotel No, okay. Oh, I always stayed in the host right across the street from cheesecake factory walking distance to LA fitness Everything I need right there It's gonna be like a walk down memory lane and I love it I know where to take Tommy for pictures. Nice. So is there a stealers game going on? You know I don't know because I won't be there So the bodybuilding is Thursday Friday at noon. I'm catching a flight and going back to Fort Lauderdale for the weekend because I'm shit I'm like I'm already booked for my flights and Nikki said I want to go for a lot of that weekend I was like well and change my flights So there we go. Yeah, yeah, for the races. Okay. I only ask I I went and bought a PS5 So I've been playing Madden I've been playing a couple games of Madden every night for bed just a little just yeah job It's said a surfing YouTube aimlessly. I've swapped screen time So less pointless YouTube surfing and now I hammer out a couple games of Madden before bed And I am full on like super into football now Like more than I have been in years and years and years. I'm like oh shit. So I you know I might do watching all the games now. Yeah. I got my dad's in Football NFL football past watch all the games now So nice. I don't know about here. We use the app called dazzling and it has NFL on it You can like download it and put on on your TV and all that. It's awesome So who is your team then? I've always been a 49ers fan ever since I was a kid You know I grew up with Joe Montana Jerry Rice all those guys went in for Super Bowl I was like when I was a little kid I was watching the 49ers when you know four Super Bowl's in the 80s right and And then when I was a high school I was like still the Niners fan hardcore and then they won the 95 Super Bowl was Steve Young So I was still like just fresh out of playing football at that point I was still a huge nineners fan growing up So I still root for the Niners. I also root for the Steelers I always like the Steelers there are hard kind of old school football, you know and obviously the 85 bears I remember watching that game when I was 10 years old watching the 85 bears destroy the Patriots in the In the final you know with Walter Peyton and that whole team that 85 bears was like the perfect team Yeah, and so I kind of like those legacy teams, you know I don't really find myself cheering for like you know new newer down. Cheer for like Newer teams. I just it's always a old school guys, you know, yeah the buck and years to the the year the Tampa Bay buck and years won the Super Bowl was like oh two or something The beat the Raiders they had Mike all stopped on their team. I was a huge Mike all stop fan He's on my favorite running back and so I was a big bucks fan the year they won the Super Bowl there So then when Brady joined the box and one another Super Bowl. I was like really cool. I was like oh this is awesome Because I was like the buck's team. So yeah, those are my teams. I I hated I was like a Patriot Hater Until Brady got like his fourth ring and then I was like oh I'm just being a Hater This guy's the best and then after Super Bowl five the big comeback Yeah the 283 comeback after that. I was like fully on board. I'm like Brady's goat Brady all day cheer for like no like you know eventually just face reality and you're gonna be an effect in Hater You know so Yeah, that's my football story I like it you know so I started to because they screwed up college football Which was the only football I watched right last season I decided to pick a team I went with the bills because I should team Josh Allen. Yeah, I like the bills to and I've got some great data that I picked up yesterday the average During a game number of beers consumed Across the league the bills fans win and the average is 8.6 beers a game Wow wow Having not won any Super Bowl. I think you need 8 points Oh man I remember those three in a row they lost yeah Like Shit I remember watch how much all three of those games with all my friends you know giant cowboys red skins Lies lost lost my good friends mother is like a die hard like goes to every single event So now I'm in good company like she's had season you can't get season tickets there It's like a 10 year waiting list. She's had them for like 25 years So I might just find my way to a game now. Yeah, how should we yeah Kick off with your great subject run yeah, so I we thought this would be a good good topic posing for your show a lot of people getting ready for shows right now posing obviously important some of you realize how important it is I helped one of Justin Chir's clients with his shots yesterday I just met him at West Coast and we went ran through poses with them and the kid was already on the right is names Quinn Quinn Saint Piery Follow my Instagram tons of potential trains hard great guy But I helped him with his poses, you know is you know friend of Justin the friend ours right and She put up that back last bread. This is this is five minutes Yeah, this is a different credible change so like sometimes we say you guys work on your posing and it goes in one ear and out the other and you guys think you know what you're doing But this is five minutes. That's the same day Yeah, right that's that's like that's just his check in with Justin or whatever and then after I helped him with the pose He sent him another one so You know that's that's just Clapsing with the chest and kind of rounding the back on the one-lots spread and Then there's a bit of an adjustment with the legs and stuff too, but then it was just lifting the chest and stretching out the back across his body and Look at the difference in the back, you know, so That's that's what posing does you know you can either take two years and improve your back that much Or you can work on your rear-lots spread and get it just right and And so like get someone to help you with your posing like start early Work your ass off, you know, it's not as simple as just oh, yeah, I got my side chest. Yeah, do you have it perfected? There's your side chest look the best it can look like You sure there's nothing you can do to make it look better You know and you've got to put that effort in and and not just be so easily satisfied with what you see in the mirror for a split second Can you hold that pose for ten seconds without letting something go? You know there's so many other things that just thinking you know how to pose and I'm tired of seeing people think they know how to pose and then on stage It's just a slaughter Because nothing's nothing's right, you know, they're not needless to need yeah, needless stuff You have something you can control yeah like you can fix it now like imagine as someone said hey If you just work really hard at posing you can save yourself six weeks of dieting Imagine as someone Told you that Wouldn't that be a great idea or Someone said hey you could add 15 pounds of muscle if you just practice your posing you'd practice your posing Like I feel like the other thing if you look at these two pictures left and right Notice it looks like he has short legs in a long torso on the left Like his body actually looks different and it's very slight like he's standing a little taller in this in the better photo Yeah, it's the little less crouch with the legs which makes it look more even Well, then look at all the I mean we the rear delts are solid in both But he's got no ramboyance on the left So I guess that's not so that's one week apart. I guess that's his old check-in and then his new check-in so I was that That's not so I Think that big key with that though is he didn't get that much heart he didn't gain 10 pounds of muscle no no That's opposing change. I look at the back that's just an adjustment right there and It's something we hammer home. I mean I've been working with Tommy get ready for North Americans on some little tweaks too because it's like I tell my clients the judges judge what you show them not what you have Yeah on the left he has what he has on the right but he's not showing it and that's the At a top-down show level show Doesn't make the cut on the left and then he's thinking oh I got all this work to do I'm gonna need a year or two to put it back on the picture on the right is a standout Right it's the same physique. I mean you just you can't press that enough on every pose To to make sure you bring your best possible package plus the other thing is is You should look like you're sturdy like you're not off balance. I feel like if I were bumping into him on the picture on the left He would Loses balance a little bit you know because you could see his weights not distributed evenly in his feet even right Whereas on the right he is planted to the ground which is allowing his glutes to fire better his hamps to fire better And for him to just be comfortable and he gets sitting up pose for five minutes to be had to yeah Yeah, yeah, yeah Just hugely important and and and and you know you don't have to hire someone like I taught myself how to pose I I don't quite get why it's so hard to learn to pose. I've said this before I think my martial arts background actually really helped me Because I spent so many years where everything had to be identical right like when I hit this this you know when I did my Cata or my former you know poomsay we called it in tech window But you're formed when you do your form patterns They have to be identical every time like it like it's precision that's what they're teaching you they're teaching you to Respect precision and Memorization and being perfect body position every time that's what the point of it is right it's discipline It's mental discipline and precision and caring about every little detail And so when I would do it like my hand would wind up in exactly the same spot in the air at every moment That in my kicks would be exactly the same spot in the air and so that's what posing is you have to replicate these things over and over and over Exactly the same way you just did them and I think just you know where your hands are in space I learned a lot of that from martial arts So I get that it might have been easier for me than most people Because a lot of people maybe have never done anything like that But it should still be able to see what's going on like you know, they think they're doing the ab thigh Well, you're back legs and not flexed right yeah look look look look at look at flex wheeler do it his other quad is split So that's what you need to do like it do all of it like So that's my frustration sometimes bodybuilding is the only sport that I know of Where people don't put the reps into the thing they're gonna perform on stage Because you gotta remember like the reps in the gym is to build the muscle But you know and NHL player Practices his shots over and over and over so that when it comes across to him in a game It's just second nature. It's like how many times we got a client where 50% of the time they hit the shot right and you're just hoping when they get on stage That this is the 50% yeah, yeah, come on get it this time and then they don't and you're like oh And that's because they didn't nail it to where I just had a guy last week and I told him I'm like he goes I get it most the time I'm like well that doesn't help us Yeah, that might not be most of the time. I need you to do it 100% of the time and if you practice it enough if you put in the reps You won't know how not to like yeah. I got to the point that if someone said like Step your left leg back and say you're right. I was like oh Oh shit. Okay, like Because I had planted the same way so many times It wasn't even a thought, you know well let's let's put it out there guys So we're telling everybody that they need to practice they're posing they need to be good at this it needs to just be not even second nature first nature This is just what you do When should how early into their Contest prep should they start posing how frequently should they work on their posing and how long should they work on their posing procession? Do you want to be really good then you do it in the opposite? Okay? Yeah, I should already know how to pose now because if you're if you can move your body in the offseason hitting it and when you're in prep is easy And then once you're in prep I mean to me You know you look at the same way you do training Yep, if you're training five days a week then you're posing five days a week You know, yeah, that's yeah you should be posing all the time. I mean I posed at home I think I ran through all my shots almost every day At least once Almost every day. I mean offseason there would have been days I didn't but I would always go through them you know what I mean and pre-contest I mean you know from the day the diet starts it's Absolutely every day. I'm going through all my poses and I'd laugh and how long start How long because I you know like because I'm wondering you know people are probably watching this at home Maybe they're getting ready for their first show right now and they're listening to their select Okay, yeah, be fup on this is this hey maybe even just five minutes a day at the start. Okay. Yeah, yeah, you know I mean even just five minutes a day, you know that there's hey sometimes five minutes is your whole class Yeah, right you also want to be prepared by the end yeah You want to build that to go like to me by the end you should be able to run through all your shots With five second holds three four rounds in a row. Yeah, problem yeah, and I tell clients when I was in Arizona Posting your garage It'll never be hotter than that on stage. Oh, and yeah, so that you can if you can set yourself up to where it's harder When you're when you're doing your practice then when Steve Weinberg is calling out your shots You're fine. I mean Ron talks about it. I mean he beat Ben Bacolsky by Practicing posing and eventually I mean that's what they'll do they go these two guys are too tight. Let's just see who dies Yeah, his abshot gets blowing out first right yep You know that to you too at those high levels. So wait for it. Oh, just a break when audience member It's fun to watch that you know that same like that school when you get to see that kind of a battle on stage Yeah, and you start to realize when they're doing it like I've you know there's been the odd time We're like oh, they're just trying to break when these guys Love it. No, and it happens at the very top level sometimes, you know, it's do one more round gentlemen one more round I've seen them do it. Switch sides I've seen you again just to put on a good show. You know what I mean? Yeah, yeah They'll do it at the state level here. It's it's fun because you get the audience revved up I've been in that a couple times at the state level. It's if there's nothing more exciting than when you get that moment You know, unless you're not prepared. I love it I think that the judge the head judge should do a top two or a top three confirmation call out at the night show in the big classes Just for fun. Like I think it's I think that even if it's not Crazy close. I think you know, maybe they'll do the top three then if it's like the winners obviously It's maybe do the top three confirmation. Yeah, I like it when when judges even at the local shows We'll do that confirmation round at the night show if it's a big class and it crowds really into it I think that's great great for everybody It's cool if you if you notice last week and this something that I liked pay attention to Jordan Hutchinson shots on his very last round against The who's he going at the top three calls. Yeah, yeah the top three It looked identical to the first one Yeah, he was not going to break it's like yeah, I can do this all day long. That's what I've been doing You know and when it was him against cue the week before there was just no fading and I think It's all the way down to the if you took a side by side of his side chest the first time in the last time Is same pose. Yeah, if anything he just got harder so this same picture You just maybe think about the strawberries in your in your new yeah. Yeah. No, I I I agree that not breaking thing man. I remember like The day after the show quite often my right upper quad would be sore From putting that leg forward and pushing against the floor to absolutely you know and then my Right glute and hamstring would be like scorched it got to work out because of all the back shots, you know and And yeah, I remember walking through an airport one time my hamstring and glute on that side We're so sore because I think died dehydration played a role in like making it way worse about yeah, and the next day I had like 10 out of 10 doms in my one glute and ham And I was like limping through the airport like would I tear something Like I was like that it was like the worst soreness you can get but day after the show and one hamstring It was really bizarre Yeah, just like thinking what the I must have been dehydrated and there's some trauma going on like you know So yeah, it's important you gotta be ready for it and be ready to work and It's just such a waste when you see somebody like you know I I remember having a client who's peeled out of his mind Like you're one of those guys really like you got to see my client's glutes like I can't even believe them like there was like that guy But he couldn't flex anything And man I'm screaming out I'm flex your glutes flex your glutes and he's like walking on stage while he's walking on stage His glutes are totally shredded. Yeah, right? Just walking yeah, and then when he goes to pose He just relaxes him and I'm like flex your glutes That was screaming out of you know, it's just I hate that feeling yeah, so don't be that guy What's the follow-up on that one's gotten follow-up? I'm gonna switch it up guys There was a question that you had in your uh you put a question box together We got a bunch of questions by the way So a lot of times guys we do those interviews like we did with Jordan last week We don't get a lot of questions there But you guys have been slack a little bit. We need you to leave questions on YouTube Yeah, we need you we need you guys and also too People are leaving us questions over on Spotify. I went to throw it out there to you Spotify has grown tremendously like we are getting Not quite as many views on Spotify as we are on YouTube, but like it is freaking poppin So just a heads up I'm gonna start paying attention to the comments over there as well if you guys want to leave us anything I don't see it off hand, but I'm gonna paraphrase guy said It you become the god of the OVBB overnight Ron and or dusty What are the three rules the three new changes that you are going to implement? It made effective Well the first one for me is going to be Promoters are not allowed to have anything but a black backdrop and they can figure out how to put their sponsors above the athletes It's really not that complicated. They have these new things called ladders and We can see them so we'd start there What would you do Ron? I would have Cheer leaders for the men's open This this might attach to my current football You're kind of crossover there. Yeah, they're little crossover there. I'm like my football right yeah I'm thinking the NFL has the best sports they have the best sports product out there They're the best at marketing their sport and all the sports the NFL. They're proven They make the most money. It's the best business model. They make the most money. They're the most successful They have cheer leaders. I'm just saying That's what it needs to crossover and it's men's open big event right big money got the big fat check Where are the cheer leaders? I think there should be up and down the aisles Yeah, between guys like guy comes out when he's done his routine is walking off stage They're wearing that cheerleader and they do it like a quick lap through the line their chin and then they clear out again Next guy. I think this would add to the event. I don't know if there really need to be two more changes I think that one change Yes, significantly improve the experience All set after that what about what about if they started like with boxing like they had a ring girl who came out and it was like open body Belts she came out with the card, you know, I like the body weight you like heavy What kind of loss I like this yeah, I like the vibe and it's scantly clad of course Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, because hey Wokes over we won We're gonna do this anymore, right? We can't sit me swinging out there with the with a halter top and some jeans on She can hold a ring card. She'd probably love it Okay, she's the money. Yeah, yeah, I can't top that I've got I've got nothing good to add, you know I told you it's a shutdown. It's a sure leader's a shutdown that's it Yeah, we don't need all the background of the stage distracting from the cheerleaders and really if you have the cheerleaders You don't even need Bob No Yeah, they can hold the card or something right? Yeah, yeah, it's all they need I need to know what's going on Show this weekend the North Carolina gold's gold something or another gold gem something or another and they did that It was all Black background no, no, they did the black background though the other thing The last important but oh yeah, that's a nice impactful idea that okay, I got it Okay, yeah, well, I make background and it looks good. It's a bodybuilder's happy, but yeah, as I remember the crowd Yeah, I still take local level like my dad does not care if the background is pink black Right Scantly clad women walk Yeah, yeah, yeah, I've been supporting you and my worst background often find it a picture to send you guys It is it was so bad. This was in a little auditorium at Wayne State University I think it was like basically a large lecture hall and it was an orange cinder block wall behind us That was in Javal colors orange cinder block wall for physics with a bunch of orange bodybuilders standing up against it was the worst Pictures looked terrible everything looked awful Genius didn't afford a sheet. It's perfect. Yeah perfect I got to go to my buddy in oh Was your buddy freaking them on remember I said yeah, you know I know but I'm asking for who's your who's your buddy, right? Oh, I'm working sharp Yeah, that's That that pump is here to hang out for a few days So I got to go let him into my building and then I'll get back on the show immediately Ron has his own building everyone yeah, right? Okay, you too Coaching is going well He forgot he thought that I was actually asking him like I did you know what I mean he was like, oh don't you remember I told you to show Yeah, you didn't tell the rest of us yeah exactly man So I did see by the way Jordan was at the range Now that I like him following him a little closer seeing everything he does he was at the range the other day You know he's a he's a man of his word with the The things he picked up my he picked up my my every day carry the other day. Oh, he did Yes, he's a man finally got one. I was like oh, you're gonna love that thing good man I think I know just fits just fits it's good. It's a good fit Hey, so this question I'm gonna go to real quick while Ron's gone and I think I know your answer But I'm curious to hear it if you had to pick one set and tense of fire for the rest of your life What would you pick and why now you need to do the same one for all body parts for example Will maker for lateral raises Ress pause Ress pause for sure I'm always I just I think it's the best way to Pick a weight that you can only do for you know 10 11 reps And now you're doing 16 18 reps with the same weight, you know I think the the key with Ress pause that a lot of people don't get is Make it sure managing your time between each attempt You know, so whether you're somebody who looks and says okay 30 seconds 20 seconds whatever Whatever you do it's fine still consistently yeah make sure it's perfect and the big thing is is make sure you're taking deep breaths during Get that oxygen in you know make sure that muscles ready to rock but yeah I love a Ress pause plus when you're shooting for Progressive overload you really only have to beat one of those to have done it you know, I mean so Yeah, that's by far my favorite what would yours be? Well real quick I wanted to also follow that up when are you in Dante gonna do some training again? Have you ever if I could ever drag him out of California because you know I don't want to go there You're not going there. He's not leaving I've been trying my best to get into this move is entire operation But I feel like new some's doing a good job with that so we might get him out of there Yeah, I would say you know what I've been intimately is muscle rounds from four to two training lately Now so it's a cluster set a little bit more complicated to explain But it's six sets of four reps with a ten second break between each one But the the thing about this is you only go to failure one time so With four to two training if it's a full body workout each time you train You're gonna do like progressive upper and then like a pump lower and so for the pump lower it might be a muscle round So I can get more volume in while limiting the central nervous system stress because I found like after getting sick that I I can I can grow or regrow I think right if I if I get some volume in But the more times that I hit hard failure the more times that I'm texting my central nervous system So you get in you know six sets of four reps and here's the thing you just walk it right off the cliff So there's no let the constant reps so if you start to fail like I'm going one two Three and then at that fourth one I fail on then you're supposed to lower the weight So that you don't fail through the remainder of the set okay So it's that's it's it's a little bit different in that way, but it limits how much you text your central nervous system which Do it a be honest man. It's not something I used to think about in the past like I wanted to know how I could crank it up even more You know, I'd demolish the central nervous system and then do more on top of that right? Yeah exactly I actually never do are you doing rest pauses now like while you're dieting because you're looking for Pretty lean in it from what I saw an Instagram. I'm not really dieting. That's the thing is I just I just removed daily bullshit You know I mean yeah, we still eat out like I was to go out once twice a week But I feel like when I post a picture it should come with like a little thing on the side that says This is easier when you've had more muscle than this To just maintain you know main case What I'm doing to be as lean as I am and as big as I am would not have ever worked if I was trying to go up You know I'm saying yeah, yeah four meals a day right now and then one of those little David bars and that's That's my day Yeah, I do 500 grams of rice a day four slice of toast a day and You know and then my protein and that's it That's amazing are you adding any cardio to this or I do 20 minutes like five days a week okay, and that you like intense cardio too. Don't you yeah, let's get on the bike I mean it's not like over the intense, but I'll do You know seven miles on the bike in 20 minutes So it's quick, but I'm not killing I got watching a movie why I do it. Yeah, you know So but it's it's it's wild though how much if I could go back I would have added intense or more intense cardio in my off season because Like we trained like yesterday we're doing Artials for the first time I've done them in forever. Yeah, I've done my satin by the time my two train of art is I've done theirs. I'm grabbing the bar like I don't need anymore time. Let's go You know Yeah, and day whereas before I was like give me five minutes between a temp son and our DL you know Do you see your training with Turner Riddleson? Yeah, next week I got he's going up for North American students So we've penciled in a workout or two while we're up there which I always love turners Lunatic so yeah, we have some fun. Do you guys know we're gonna work out at We'll probably just train right across the way at that LF at this because he's got clients that weekend, but It doesn't matter it's uh what I like about training with Turner is what we'll do is we're going the gym We'll pick a movement and then I decide what we're doing and then the next movement he picks and he decides how we're doing it And we just make sure it's awful, you know Turner likes to throw in a lot of like All right, we'll go we'll get into partial is now I'm gonna hold you into the stretch position. You know just make every set hell Yeah, look it's a different run now. He came back without a hat You know He couldn't hear ya there he is. Did you lose your hat Ron? Yeah, he still had me too. Yeah, yeah, that's right. He sounds better when he's so they lost my hat on me Hey, it's so it's probably not gonna happen because there's like a thousand one way streets and Bridges and everything else to try to navigate your way through Pittsburgh But if you get a chance check out exercise warehouse that place is the bomb and they've got some old equipment You've never seen in your life and when you find it you're gonna wonder why you'd never trained on it before No way oh yeah, I might have to regret if he's got a space because all we need is like You know an hour to train and the drive so if he's got a guy just client just eight Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah Over and get an hour workout and come back good. They have like I think upstairs They have like old wood plank floors so you're kind of like creaking on the on the On my joints there all by themselves. Yeah, we're good. Yeah, I wouldn't even know what's happening I remember I saw Seth Ferrosy there and it was right after Brett Wilkin had gotten his pro card So he was Brett Wilkin was still like you know 210 pounds at the time Yeah, you turn pro and they were getting to work her up there. Yeah That's fun over here like the only the only three or four people in the whole gym So what's up man? What's up, Ron? Oh, we got Morgan in the house now he's meeting the new dog and hanging out Broad is laptop up he's gonna do some work for a few hours while they get his room ready That's why he's hanging out at the house. Okay So he came out what to just hang out and train and Vancouver all that Yeah, I came out to train at West Coast iron with me. We're actually also gonna get a workout in at the compound I'm gonna go train at Brains place because Morgan's been out here several times Like he's been coming out ever since we opened West Coast, you know and and He's never had a session at Brains house So those of you that know my training partner has a sick home gym like just a few blocks away from my gym So we're gonna go have a Cheston by sept day at the compound today and then we're gonna do legs of West Coast tomorrow So it'll be we're all in yeah, be good time. You know it's extra great about Brains gym and I didn't I didn't really realize this until I saw post a video the other day on Instagram all the equipment Obviously that makes the gym but having the front garage door and the back garage door that you can open both Yeah, that's nice. Oh, yeah, it's cool. It's cool Blast the door is open and it's funny. We were training there. We had four of us in there the other day and you know like Coupled them you know Braden and Big Micre getting ready for shows, right? Yeah, so they like had their shirts off Like we were training adults and they're just training shirtless. Yeah, you know like what do you know My old school home home gym workout, right and you know, I just leave a shirt on where I'll pumped my You know, Jack my buddy Jack was in there. He says arms out. You know, and we look up and there's these little kids standing at the end of the driveway just staring into the garage Like this group of kids they were like like you know like 10 12 13 like that old just group of them Senate and the driveway just staring into the garage from like you know, it's about 60 feet of driveway to the garage and they're just like what is going on in there and the loud rap music was pumping out like old school Rapp pumping out and they would have do we're just staring like I think you would fire the next generation man Oh, I hopefully sent a few of them home a little bit different Change forever. Yeah, no The vision of what they want life. Yeah, yeah, you know the parents would be like I don't know what happened But he could be became obsessed with being big Muscle eight Heading more and oh, I don't know what happened. No, who's fault this is? Three four years is gonna be a knock on that garage door. Yeah, they're ready for a membership Yeah, they can see none of a movie right. Yeah, I'm coming back. I'm ready. Oh my god Did you guys see I think I sent it to you there was a video on Instagram of a guy who was like in it He was like the home gym Like the the big guy in the neighborhood the alpha the neighborhood. Oh, yeah, yeah, you guy walk. Oh, that was so hilarious Yeah, the new guy in the neighborhood is jacked. Yeah, yeah, that was maybe more jacked than the jacks guy in the neighborhood, you know Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's funny. It heads up the heybrone nod. Yeah, you know I remember the heybrone nod like when it goes all the way back to like the very beginning like I remember being like a I remember being a 17 year old bodybuilder Right with like guerrilla wear sweatshirt on and give you the impant and my parents had like take me out of town for a wedding We have to go to someone's wedding So I'm in some town somewhere I don't know anybody, you know, and I go to the local gym and it's just all like super normies like 1991 You know like just You know an old man reading a book on the app machine and just like just normie city and then there's one dude You look across the room and he's got like a team Michael on yeah, and he's doing shrugs and he looks at you and just It's up bro Nothing else he's been said, you know at that point in time the world was the bodybuilding world was so small And he just see one other member of it. You'd be like oh, I'm not alone And he had a spot that day. Yeah, oh, yeah, who to ask you know, it was go over hey man You want to spot me on late press? No problem, you know, what was his name and then you're of course your wife's like what was his name? Like I don't know I've had people in my own gym that I've been Yeah, I think two for a year or two Mickey's like what's his name like? I don't know is he married? I don't know what's he doing for a living? It's got great ones though You know, probably Yeah, it's properly spot me on the pole down without taking too much. I know that I saw a fantastic video Wasn't about bodybuilding but it reminded me of just Just how things are it was a woman and And she was doing a rant video on how she thinks it's just insane that guys can just roll up to the park and Play pickup basketball with other men that they don't know and they just all work so And everyone has fun and and then there was like a dude reacting to it like he's laughing He's like she's like they just make friends They don't even know their names They just all of a sudden coordinate teams and it just happens and they follow the rules and no one No one like tries to undercut any one or back to like and the guys like yeah, it's just chill We're just playing it just laugh it as ass off and she's like I would be a raccoid be like I get to get these people Like me do I bring muffins do I have like Just roll up to the park and we're gonna roll up like hey guys who's next You were next we've team three we got three three good we're good to go and I just thought with so funny I was like yeah, that's how guys are for sure, you know Here's a good one from Dusty's List what's the shortest offseason push that you guys have done or done with the client and Here's the big caveat and made good progress Geez like 18 months Shortest I'm like no none of them were I don't think I ever had one that was long enough Yeah, yeah, yeah, I mean I was gonna say the flip side of that is sometimes You know some of my best show looks were on the backs of terrible off seasons Because that happens too you almost get that like slingshot prep you know where you you know you've been You know like banged up and that is shitty offseason because something hurt and so you weren't even really cranking So you're probably Like you're like you're like you know like you're kind of fresh because you weren't really cranking because you were you know Couldn't really push and you know you stayed a little lighter because you couldn't really Train hard and you know you've favoring your knee and your elbow and your shoulder for For five months straight like I've had that happen and then you wind up yielding a really great stage look Because you were fresh So it's kind of funny how it works and then sometimes you get those crazy offseason's really like This is awesome, but I've also felt like that was kind of like a Hard slug like I went hard all year and then I went hard all Prep and you're like oh my god. Yeah, I don't know I gotta get into this So I don't know it's kind of funny to look at it's not always how you wind up on stage Obviously everyone wants a great offseason. No, but you know, I mean you need at least several months to make any significant changes I think that's the biggest thing to look at is In my opinion I hate when somebody puts up two photos. Let's say they're a good body brother And they're like progress from last year this year and I'm like which one's last year I'm looking and I know bodybuilding They're a great shape in both and you're like Like I always felt like I should be able to put up two photos and hand them to somebody who doesn't know and say Which one is better right and they could just go that one is and that's to me is the sign of a proper offseason I Mean to me I ask my clients don't be in a rush to pick up on the stage the same I want at least a year because a year We got to pull 16 weeks out to die it so now on eight months You know and that's not a lot of time if I want to see them put on ten pounds You know, so that's a tight window I do think that We all have those Everyone has a year or two in their bodybuilding career. They look back and go. I don't know what happened between here and here But I became a different person You know like for me from 2010 to 2011 I put the picture side by side and everyone what did you change? And I'm like nothing Yeah, yeah, it was just one more year and for whatever reason Everything fell into place you know So my answer is a year is the the perfect timeline and yes I've had clients make drastic changes in four months and get on stage again But all that tells me is what could we have done with eight months? Yeah, yeah Yeah, you know, so I still don't advise it. I'm just like well that was awesome But maybe next time we can go longer Yeah, I never had a short a short like bounce back and all the sudden things looked awesome It was always my longest ones the long and I think that goes to show like genetics right like the longer I took between shows the more progress I would make the shorter that I'll tell you what though with the shorter I feel like it was easier to get leaner When you it's like I just was lean last year, you know, you don't get a chance to get too fat if you're doing a show every year You know You take two years so you might have a little bit more work to do you know The one thing I did find on accident which I could never Replicate because I didn't have the discipline But I got some of my best gains because when you're at a surgery that put me out for like two months And I was like all right, I'm out but what ended up happening was when I came back to train All the little niggles that I wouldn't even call injuries just in knowing little things were gone Yeah, took the rest for then and again When I started training I blew up and I always told myself All right after this year's show I'm gonna take six weeks completely off to rest And I'll be better and then like a week and a half later. I'm like you know what we're gonna have is pretty close to six weeks I know It's like yeah, because if you look back like Ronnie you should do that. I think he said two or three months Three months off Yeah, every year train nothing so there is something to be said about stepping completely away And I hope that you're a better man than I and can you can actually do it because I couldn't I love to try and too much Yeah, I remember us hearing all those stories of Ronnie not training for two to three months after every Olympia and it wasn't like the Kevin the Vrone legend because that was like six months Yeah, like Partying to prep started yeah and partying yeah With with Ronnie it was just like just you know, is that home with the family? You know, and um And and you want to like man maybe maybe that's why he can maybe that's maybe that's part of the reason why you know We were all thinking like maybe maybe maybe is why he's so big like Can't be in this Yeah, because like we were just ever I just felt like in my my group my years of my sort of era of coming up We were also desperate to not get left behind by what was happening You know that was a crazy time when everyone was getting really big like I was you know I was bodybuilding in the 90s and it was just at an arms race to get as big as you possibly could like every year Someone else had gotten huge, you know like Dorian Dorian stepped up all the sudden one the oh and now it's like oh shit And then like NASA came and got way bigger sudden because NASA wasn't that big when he turned pro He was big and then he got humongous and then like everyone started getting bigger Kevin stage weight went up 20 pounds and you know everyone ever one is just it was that era where you're just desperately trying to knock it left behind By what was happening yeah, and the the last thing we would we would like think would actually be a thing would be taking three months off the gym That would perfect sense. Yeah, three months away from getting bigger to get bigger So we just all chucked it up to Ronnie be in Ronnie Yeah, whatever Doesn't he's doing doesn't matter right? Doesn't count so You know for us humans yeah, yeah What about this one? Okay, so this is Going to Vegas for the first time this year. I assume he's going to the oh name three things to avoid and Three things that you have to do in Vegas. Thank you gentlemen Well So if I try to think of someone who hasn't been to Vegas 30 plus times You know that changes your list right it makes you sort of jaded If I was like Holds this guy He doesn't say okay Well if I was a you know a young guy going to Vegas for the first time I would recommend I don't gonna go okay I wouldn't I don't care anymore I'm older but I would we used to love going to Vegas strip clubs Okay, you know the Vegas strip club the Vegas strip club was at least one time We're going to strip club like that would just a fun thing as go to the strip club have some fun There's just nothing like a Vegas strip club, you know what I mean and So that was always something I told the guys to do. I got your strippers wants a Vegas like you know Who wants to go anywhere else? Yeah, like I don't know I heard my amys good though But I'm just saying I'm not a strip club guy, but I heard the Vegas strip club was you know I recommend that I'm gonna tell you guys something you might not believe this I have never Once in my life ever Not even kind of been to a strip club. I've never been to a strip club in my life Wow, yeah never have I mean I'm not gonna say you're missing anything drastic But it just didn't you have been done it I mean I've heard all about it while my friends told me about it and I even had a friend who was like Yeah, this is what you do when you go there and you know he was like in fact he had an angle He was like when you go to the strip club You don't show any interest in the girls He's like you don't look at him You just talk to your buddies you don't even pay attention his plan is how to have sex with a stripper This is how it starts Probably not the best goal. Yeah, you don't even look at girls You don't treat him with any respect or anything like that you don't even care They don't even exist in your mind and when they come over to you. It's kind of like they're bothering like that's that's his angle And before you know it like then they're working for his attention is basically he was like it's a face It's a very like a always sunny Dennis type of routine It was so wrong. Yeah wrong But she will have sex with you because of the implications I don't like that sounds It's really dark You must understand what I'm saying the girls said no then the answer obviously is no No, but the thing is is she's not gonna say she would never say no because of the implication I Love that I know that what I like that's so great no, no, what I'm saying yeah Yeah, yeah, that's the best. Sorry took us on what's the what's the hotel that the that shows that now the Resorts world right yes, so One place you have to go is tacos Elgordo right across the street from Resorts. Well, it's I don't know if it is but sounds good I want that you walk in that place It's open all night all day like everything doesn't matter when you go in there There will be 60 people in line to get tacos and it is a madhouse and it is amazing Good enough that after we went last trip we went back the next day It's a life changing emotional experience tacos outgordo you're welcome everyone that goes Tell my sense you it won't mean shit, but I'll feel good at it Okay, yes, that place is a must things to avoid thinking that the next hotel is walking distance Oh Very important lesson does not have the floor There's no there's no will just walk down there. Okay. I always love watching new Vegas people You see him and they're like in the hotel breathe in hard you're like Where'd you walk from and they're like just two hotels a way I'm like so four miles cool. Yeah, cuz it's just over there You guys enjoy that I enjoy that I like the walk I do cuz there's you see also to stuff and if you do it properly stuff and things stuff and things you can walk through the hotels and And kind of find your way through a maze that will lead you to the next one and then you can continue doing that See inside the your conditioning. I remember I use a similar maze called Uber Right, I remember my first Olympia we were staying at the Mandela Bay. Yeah, and I was like oh I got to go check out fat burger cuz we didn't have fat burger in Canada yet. Okay So I was like I gotta go to fat burger and everyone's like yeah, this if you block down on strip like I'm gonna walk to fat burger From the Mandela Bay And on a map it's like yeah That's what it's far yeah, and then you walk there from that from that hotel and you realize that you made a huge mistake Yes, you've made a critical critical error. Yeah, yeah, that's a cute. I also would say If you haven't been to a Vegas show you should go to one a Good Vegas show I've been to all of them, but I still don't get bored So the one we went to was great the illusionist and the mind mentalist Yeah, that was like totally up my alley, you know because I've seen like a couple of circus delays and it's like cool But I was I was much more entertained by the mentalist and The illusionist that that show was fantastic. Yeah, we left there with brains broken Yeah, brocar brains. Yeah, really really great show So but you gotta see something if you appreciate that and then also two absinthe the show absinthe it's users It's outside in a small tent It's one of the best shows you're ever gonna see in Vegas. It's super off the wall and Just amazing and you got it I would highly recommend absinthe. It's one a bunch of awards like You know people it's like kind of a smaller show so people kind of it goes under the radar Right, but you gotta go see it. It's awesome if he's going for bodybuilding I assume this is like he's going for the Olympia you if you want to do the whole thing You can go to like there's the meat the Olympians. There's you know There's free stuff like stuff that you can do that doesn't cost you any extra I mean obviously the expo costs and he already knows about that I'm sure and then there's the press conference which you know It's like if you'll it's kind of cool if you've never seen it before to see that in person You know, well, it's not gonna be like a change your life thing But you do get a chance to kind of see everybody and hear them talk So I'd say if you've never done that before and you're a fan of the sport go to the press conference and check that I used to go to the press conference every year that was a big a big deal I thought that was a lot of those like the warm up for the weekend though. Yeah, yeah, yeah You're like get into that. All right. We're here for the Olympia mode also The drags layer sets up at the At the resort world now that you know set up like an outside out-door gym. Yeah, that's cool So that's a great way because you do not want to try to walk into The drivings layer during the Olympia week. No, is that bad, huh? I feel actually want to train if you want to see people great place to go if you want to get a workout Don't do One more before heading out there hit that spot What other gyms what other spots are they don't put a hide and irises gym because she's nuts I sat Scott you know where you know where the plates go like on the side of like a leg press where all the plates are Yeah, so we're waiting at a photo shoot and I'm sitting on top of the plates Yeah, just waiting and she comes over she was can't sit there. I'm like Okay, she's like you'll break it. I'm like this is literally its job Yeah, it's the whole weight And I was like I now understand why this gym is quiet. Okay, you own it That's me leaving my unbiased opinion that's not too direct I literally was like I would never walk through the doors of this gym again That's your non-google review dusty. Yes. I should leave a review But anyways, I remember I went to I can't remember which powerhouse it was But it was one of the powerhouses and I was staying at an Airbnb a little bit away from town And I ran into a crew of bodybuilders there. It was Matt Jensen He was there with Let me think Ian Valier So he had Ian was there. I just interviewed Ian for the first time like just like Ian was brand new It was like his first the right. Yeah, you know I'm trying to think who else was there. I remember Roman Fertz was hanging out with them What's her name who gets absolutely freaking peeled female bodybuilder super short you love her dusty Yeah, Michaela was there Michaela there and then Chris and Melissa Michaela Chris and Melissa were there. Okay, and it was like before they were all like super big And I was like hey, I'd really love to get you guys both on the show. They're like oh, yeah, they'd be cool You know we had like a little two second powwow you know five minute powwow after after they were done training I kind of I started talking to one of them in the other couple other you know They walked over and stuff so but then it you know I just never got that to happen The couple LVACs by the way there yeah, yeah, yeah Get into and get really good workouts that have Awesome because I don't know what the where the one is that's got like the 80s lights on the walls The LVAC on Maryland Parkway is still teal and purple is yeah, and Jim is Like day Yeah, I've got a bunch of old race legend where great Jim I know I go to the parkway LVAC a lot You will see people but you'll like I used to when I was when I was still like in it Yeah, I always train those weekends. Yeah, I get in there like six in the morning Yeah, and sure shit you'd see the four or five other people in there that needed to get their workouts in and you get a nasty workout on a great equipment And the rest of the gym is just the people who train there Yeah, it's it's not nailed down like the other ones because obviously I mean who doesn't want to go flex his gym Right to see it but if you need to train it hit that it's awesome. Yeah, and then I met dusty at that gym that was like way out of town Oh, yeah, we what was that called that little small one? It said underground it said hardcore gym on the on the sign Yeah, I can't even remember but it was little small J used to go out there Yeah, like little paintings on the wall and yeah, yeah, yeah He's a while and yep People yeah and that's so you will you will run into people no matter where you're at You might actually be able to talk to people in a place like that versus the wall the wall of right down there You know plus if you want to see like you know guys like that Truly training right then you need to go to those gyms and you're gonna watch how That guy or girl actually trains versus them trying to manage a pump workout before. Yeah, the expo. Yeah, lots to do in Vegas, lots not to do in Vegas. Just know it's going to be really expensive. Like everything, you know, when I look at my credit card bill after it's like $25. $25. $35. $35. $50. $50. $25. $35. $35. $100. You know, just in that's I don't look this morning. Yeah, look at my credit card. Everything's been converted to Canadian. Oh, yeah, number really bigger. So I'm like, you know, to say like, you know, say like, you know, steak house $175. Yeah. Like what? I'm like, oh, right, my bill was 100. Right. Right. Right. Like it's painful for you. Yeah, it's painful because everything gets magnified into Canadian dollars. So I'm like, you know, I bought a milk, you know, buy milk shake for you know, $7 in my credit card bill. It's $12. I'm like about a $12. Plus a $2.00. $12.00. $2.00. $1.00. $1.00. $1.00. $1.00. That's a cheap credit card. It's one more. $18.00. $18.00. Yeah. $18.00. Yeah. Yeah. Don't try to eat your usual egg white consumption in Vegas. Also, hopefully you want a $50 egg white bill because I've heard them by the egg white. Yeah. It's literally per one. And it's like $3.00. Break white. U.S. Yeah. Yeah. If I go again, I'm bringing food. At least for the first part of the weekend that way I have food available to me that's clean and I paid for it at home. That's what I'm going to do. I'm going to pretend I'm going to do that. I'm not going to do. Yeah. I'm going to bring a couple of meals and then the rest will just be expensive restaurant balls. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. The rest is hanging out with me and wish you didn't. I'm not getting weight that you're dusty. Hey guys, what was the most difficult thing that you had to figure out how to improve during your bodybuilding career? Caves and arms. Caves and arms. And I just, my calves finally just grew from a battle of attrition. Like, yeah. I'd beat them into submission. My calves grew when I trained them three times a week, which is like something I, you know, I was really dogmatic about the Dorian stuff in the first many years of my career and the training and I was like afraid to train things more frequently because I thought, well, they weren't recovery. You know, like, I'm training things so hard with like all the like heavy weights and, you know, partial reps and I'm bombing the shit out of stuff I need to recover. But when I finally gave up on that and just started training my calves more often, they finally grew. And they got to the point where I had like okay calves that like no one mentioned. Right? There's that they were good, but they were bad. That's no one mentioned them. Like they were just, they were okay. I would glide by on them. They were okay. So I did okay. But, um, and then arms was like a little bit of that too. Like, I had to just train them a little more often. You know, I started adding, I've, you know, some pump, like some pump sets on chest day as well as my arm day and then even on shoulder day, I do like a few sets of extensions and then same thing for biceps. And they finally kind of grew when I did that. I got my arms to the biggest I ever got them. So, you know, I don't know, you know, what I should have done early on, if you know what it changed things a little bit. I might have, you know, been better. But yeah, that's how I got those things to kind of eventually happen for me. Yeah. I mean, I've answered this a million times with a show. So most are, you know, but I had to throw out the idea of progressive overload on my biceps. Yeah, arms are just trying to just squeeze them and make sure my shoulders didn't get involved. I mean, to this day, I train lighter than most men in the gym on biceps. I just have to. There's a few things. Fortunately, like AJ has equipment that is so good at lockshooting a position and then I could just grip and rip. But if I'm doing like a barbell curl or dumbbell curl, a 35 pound dumbbell is like, that's kind of my peak. I'm good to go after that. I can move it with something bicep. And then the big thing that I would say is like Ron was saying about being dogmatic is even things that are going well, just make sure you're watching them. Right. You know, like, is what I'm doing making a muscle grow? Because it doesn't have to be a weakness for you to pay attention that other things are pulling away. When I started bodybuilding, I was all legs from hockey. And then a few years in a bodybuilding, I'm looking at him like I'm killing myself on legs. But my upper body is bigger than my lower body. What do I need to do? And I had to just look at what I was doing. So, this isn't working. And one of the times I start stripping things away to find a way to get him to lock. And I think the thing I ignored that I pushed to guys now is one of the reasons I asked about what sports they've played in the past is my legs could handle volume. I skated every day twice a day, three times a day, for, you know, the majority of my life. So, one workout of low volume wasn't enough. So, I, again, through the rulebook out the window, it's like, okay, we're going to do high intensity and high volume. And do it twice a week. And all of a sudden, things started shifting. At one point, Dante had me in the gym, training legs three times a week. Right. No, because it wasn't plan nice. I was knocking the shit out of them every time. And it breaks all the rules, guys talk about, what were you sore when you went into training legs? I was sore every day for seven months. Let's just look at what this is how dusty looks now. This is like very impressive dusty. Yeah, holding this. That's, that's, that's a very impressive, you know, gosh, yes. Yeah, you still got everything, you know? So, whatever you're doing now to hold everything is working. Well, we talked about his diet while you were away. It's not that impressive. I'm a food. I know. Please lack of food doesn't make sense. I think that that's a factor of what Dante told me forever, which is just when you've held size for so long. For me to get under 270 is like, I have to actually die it. Yeah, I think I was like 268 most pictures. Yeah. And that's eaten out a couple times a week, eaten four meals a day. But the big thing is, is everything is the same every day, just like bodybuilding. Yeah, you know, I mean, my meals are the same. And I don't know how people, like, you know, people, your clients will say, I'm so bored of eating. I don't want to think. I just eat because I'm like, I'm hungry. Yeah. And now I'm not hungry. You're mission accomplished. Right. You know, like, I've had taco meat in rice every day for like two years straight at least once a day. Yeah. I'm like, I'm lazy. I'll just do that again. Right now 93 seven never fails me. Yeah. So I think that goes right back into consistency. And then muscle does not want to go away when you've had it for a long time. Yeah. It's a nice silk perk, buddy. You can tell you're ready to lose and I got to starve myself like you did. Oh. Yeah. I'm 238 right now. Oh, yeah. I'm going to took you years of making your like starving plus he still trains harder. He could have sped it up, but he can't give up the gym, which neither. No, no, I still like to try. So that's that's part of it for sure. But you ever went to the while I eat a pizza and I'll be 244, you know, so we're going to send him home at 250 for me. No, no, no. You eat what I eat every meal. Let's go. I will not have it. We have a physique critique from Patreon and I will not get it on with you guys. You just go to Instagram here and Chris. I don't like it too much. I'm dressed. It's got some some good pictures here. I figured this would be a good place to go. Why is it always the guy that looks like this that wants a critique? You know, we're done. I know. That's what he says that on the left that's made of August, it's one pound difference. I love the scale means nothing. Yeah. It's got some words. You guys here quads, you know. It's got some quads, good good Z taper. They're glutes are coming in. I want to see blurry on my screen. Oh, you know what? I think I went to the whole hour second here we go. And we're also buttoned. There we go. These are the pictures I wanted. I was waiting to see if he had a backshot. I was like, yeah, but wait till he turns around. Oh, because we're pretty good. Come in. Yeah. Like how far out is this show? See, I started prepper up roughly the same way that I am now. Doesn't start moving to the show. Yeah, really say. I mean, he's doing a pretty good job, man. You know, I mean, what's more critique on is just where he's at? Like what does he need to improve? You know, I think that's a lot. So I'm not going to critique his condition at all because I don't know far out he is. So it doesn't it's irrelevant. But I will say like it looks like he's dying hard. Everything's coming in. Yeah. So I mean, I mean, he's on the path to getting wrapped. I mean, the glutes are coming. So like there you go. See, the glutes are pretty tight. So he's doing a great job. So aside from condition, which is like I said, coming along really well, you know, just needs mass. I mean, I don't really see anything glaring like, you know, he's got quads of e-taper from the front. You know, I mean, everyone needs bigger arms in the front double. I mean, that's not even a reasonable thing to say. See the backshot. All right. You know, most guys need more back. You know, he could use, I mean, who can't handle a bigger back? Right. Everybody's a bigger back. But he's generally pretty balanced. Like I guess his arms could be billed bigger for it. He's got big delts. He could handle some bigger arms to match his delts. And the track could come up. I'd say he's got pretty big shoulders. He doesn't really want to worry about that right now. Yeah. And everything else just kind of size up like, you know, I mean, again, the calves could use some more meat on them. So hammer the shit out of those and look at the difference in his traps in the left to the right. Yeah. Like the all the trepid, and that lower trap. It's like they just got a stung by a beer or something. So something like he's he's on the right the right track. But I would say right gear. Yeah. I would say bring the he's he's a brain the the arms up in the back up and you know, just size up, you know, through the back of the legs and a little bit more mass. But like there's nothing glaring sticking out. I'm not like, oh, the guy's got no quads or anything like that, you know? Right. That's really helpful. Because that's like that's the worst, right? Yeah. Just missing something. Like someone has no arms or no delts or like it's just art. Because they carry his supposed to be good at bodybuilding when there's really something missing. So good X-frame too. Like the X-frames great, you know? I was try to, you know, focus on the positive stuff. He's not missing anything and he's got a good frame. Yep. I would say, can you show me the side chest real quick, Scott? There you go. So the delts are big. Yeah. You see that you see like his biceps are stronger than the tries in that shot. And the reason I pointed out is if you go back to the rear double, he needs to get his twist his arms back further because I can't see his biceps in that rear double. Okay, especially the right one. Right. That's a quick tweak to your posing where the arms you have now will be bigger. Yeah. I mean, because you gotta remember the judges are below you guys. So when they're looking up, if that arm isn't twisted back far enough, they're looking to your side and your biceps. Yeah. Yeah. And he should just kind of roll it back a little bit. Yeah, just a little bit more to get those biceps to pop in there. And everything else, like you were saying, Ron, if somebody that looks this good is missing a body part, I almost don't want to tell them what to do because I'm like, I know he's doing everything because he didn't train the rest of his body to be that good and be missing it. Right. Whereas in his case, it's all there, I think what he needs is, you know, one more year times three, you know, he's going to get a little bit of a smart, you know, because I mean, the difference in those two shots are nuts. And that's from made August. Yeah. Right. Like, you know, so just just keep doing what you're doing longer and understand that like we were talking about earlier in the show. One year, you're going to have an enormous jump with no reason that it happens so drastically. But there's nothing missing that physique where I'm like, oh, he needs XYZ movement to get his yeah, you know, back thicker or whatever. I think you just need more time. And I would highly suggest do not start trying to think of what you need to change. I think you just need to keep doing what you're doing longer. Yeah. Yep. Yeah. Go with all the, I don't have anything to add to that honestly. You guys, I feel like that was a pretty good, uh, pretty good analysis. And yeah, you're right, Ron. It's always those guys that want the critique. You know what I'm saying, guys that are already pretty good. Yeah. If you don't know your good, I got news for you. You're very good. Yeah. The only thing I would say is that I find sometimes guys that have really big shoulders, like big delts front, dealt rear delts side delts and they need a little more back or chest. They just have to be a little bit cognizant to like, you know, not just not be pulling with their rear delts a lot and not messing with their front delts a lot. Like, you know, I would do to say, but just, you know, make sure you're aware of that you're not doing that. So my rear delts, always wanted to take over for me. And then you see the guys too, the same thing with like guys that have like really crazy biceps, but they don't have a back, you know. Yeah. Their biceps are pulling. Yeah. I've even had someone where I told them I'm going to stop training where your delts, like, don't even do rear delts. Yeah. Don't need them. Because your high row, like their elbows out like upper back row, that has your rear delts fine. They don't need to waste any time training and they're plenty big. Because the rear delts on this guy that I was talking about is like, was like the biggest muscle on his back. Yeah. So it's like stop training them because he did them all the time, right? You know, you don't need to train them. They'll just stay that size because you're rose and then you can get your back to catch up. Yep. Yeah. 100%. Great physique though. Anything else you guys wanted to make sure we tackled? I mean, I feel like this week there wasn't like a lot going on in bodybuilding. You know, there's no big shows. There's no crazy news, nothing nobody said something about somebody that not that we do that kind of content, you know, but right, right, right, right. I'm happy. Somebody, we had to talk about it. I'm happy Paul guys channel back. I know that. Oh yeah, yeah. I'm talking about it. But that's great. That's great news. You know, I talked to him. I said, yeah, wherever one is afraid they were next, you know. Yeah. He thinks he just got mass reported. Yeah. Yeah. Which is cool. They were able to sort that out. You know, yeah, for sure. But yeah, we were all worried, you know, a little bit. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. You know, they're coming for us. Hey, I wanted to give a quick shout out to a couple of my people that I was working with. They, uh, I had a guy who was going into the masters and at that gold's gym show in North Carolina and he won the masters division in classic. And then he was absolutely excited that he took a belief it was fifth place out of 12 guys in the open. He was like, I don't even think he was going to do open it first. I was like, nah, you got to do open. Since you're going to come in absolutely peel like you all throw a picture up later. But he came in really good. And uh, hard worker guy did like everything that I could ask in, uh, I mean, O'eran was 25 milligrams of wind stroke. That was it for the last three weeks. That was literally all the gear. He's peeled. So I want to say that so that when you guys see this conditioning, you realize it's not all the gear. And then the other guy completely natural because he's 16 shout out to Cade. He, uh, great. You guys, he killed it, man. He didn't complain once. We went all the way down to uh, protein fat. We reduced the protein. We should reduce the fat. Like he got an incredible shape plus you played football at school. So part of the year he was dealing with that, right? Because I've been working with him since like February I think. Yeah. And then after football, you know, he still has school to deal with went through finals and everything has a full time job that he's built for himself doing long care and stuff. Guys, he, uh, he saved up his money to buy equipment, gym equipment. And because he lives out in the country, lives on a farm. He literally built his own gym, like all these great commercial. He saw that. Awesome. You know, and he's literally a teenager. The guy didn't miss a beat, didn't sheet on the diet once, didn't ask for a cheap meal once. You know, like he, he was incredible. So he, he wants to take this as far as you can. So he competed. He had to, they, he couldn't compete in the NPC because he's under 18, right? So he, we found to show in the OCB in out of state in Colorado. So him and his mom hopped down a plane together and they flew to Colorado. And, uh, and he absolutely killed it man. Checked in every time I needed him to in the morning, you know, leading into the show and it was right on track with everything. I mean, both guys were Paul was as well. Um, but, you know, it's very impressive when a teenager can, can keep it together like that. And now we're working together on an off season. He wants to see how much muscle he can grow. Did you send this a picture of him? Yeah, that's when 16 years right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So he's, he's doing incredible. So he, he ended up winning the team division. And he took fourth place in the Navist division out of a slew of guys. And he took, it was a team division was seven guys. And he ended up winning that. And then fourth place in Navis and fourth place in open. So there's a bunch of dudes there. And I mean, he's only going to do so much, you know, with respect he doesn't have a ton of muscle yet. He's only kid. Right. So the 17 year old version of my advice. It's not Costco membership and a bottle of test. It's Costco membership and a market place account to buy equipment. Yeah. Right. There you go. Yeah. There you go. There's more expensive version. Yeah. It's a little more expensive actually. I need your parents. You need to be living with your moment after that. Yeah. But yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Why is it garage full? Why can't I park my car in here? I'm getting really through show mom. Yeah. Love that. They have a little like, because they're in the farm. They had a pole burn that they weren't using for anything. Oh, no way. So it's his pole burn. No, oh, yeah. I thought it was. I thought it was literally the first few times he was sending me because he sent me some video showing me what he had or he's a weird gym. You're out. It looks very like, you know, right. I thought it was like the high school facility. You know, right. No, dude, that was his stuff. Yeah. That's cool. Start it down. Yeah. I was like, you know, do you have a seat at, you guys have a seated hamstring curl? It just like, no, I don't, but I could get one. You know, what kind should I get how start saving? I know how brain. That's like brain put up a video of us and all training at the compound the other day. That's what I talked about. I saw that. Dude, that was great. And a lot of the comments like one guy's like, oh, man, I made some mistakes in life. I kept lying cars. So I haven't buying cars. And I see what you got. And I'm like, damn, I shouldn't have been buying all those cars. You know what I mean? Yeah. And brains like, I don't even own a car. Brain drives. He does it. Yeah. He just drives his work truck everywhere. He's like, I don't know, you're car. I got work truck. Yeah. I'll set. You know, and equipment. Yep. That's not equipment. The breathing has, you could sell memberships to his people. Wow. He's training people out of it. Now like home business, right? He's got a personal training business running out of there. Good money. He's kids coming to see him. And, you know, you get to crank your own music in. Yep. Just train one on one with them. And yeah. So that's the way you want to do it. Yeah. I was younger. I would have that too. Just to avoid humans. Right. Again, back to the avoid people saved by percent mutants. I mean, I'm speaking. I have to bring this up because somebody asked and I have to do it anyway. Because it was on my mind. Yeah. But we had a question of a pet peeve in the job. Oh, yeah. And I have a big one. And it's, it's not that people know. Tell us, Dusty. But those who get on the treadmill and get on phone calls in their AirPods, because they're speaking loud enough to hear their own voice. Yeah. There's that. So they don't realize how loud it is. And you're on the bike or treadmill next to them, listen to your music. And all I can hear is you yelling in my ear. Oh. So I'd really like it if people just, I don't know. Just do your fucking cardio. Don't feel the need to be on a full. Are you even doing the cardio hard enough? If you just carry on a normal conversation, not in my eyes. But yeah, that's rough. It was a rough 20 minutes today. I'm home. Dusty doesn't like other people get things done. Got it. No. No. Get it done elsewhere. It's the same when they're walking around the gym on a call. I'm like, the walking around the gym on the call thing doesn't really bother me. But I just find it funny when like, you know, I got my headphones in, but you know, maybe a song ends. So there's gap. And I hear some guy like, oh, yeah. Yeah. Tell them that's fine. You know, and I really end he's like loading plates on a machine, talking to himself. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Tell them that's fine. Yeah. That's no problem. We can do that. You can get 10 of those. Like they're like running their business while they're training. I mean, hey, all the power to you. That's what you want to do. I just find it hilarious because it looks like they're talking to themselves. I just think, you know, we go back 30 years. We would think everyone was insane. There's people walking and talking to themselves. Just funny. It just sounds funny to me. I got it. I got this. I don't know where they to get around to me. If I can't, if I need to be on a call, it shouldn't be in the gym. And if I need to be in the gym, I have own businesses. It survived 90 minutes without me. Yeah. I will. I will get on my treadmill and I get cranked in and after I've caught my breath and everything. If I need to send a voice memo, like I want to explain to this guy what I'm doing. What I'll do, you know, I'll do it. But I'm in my own home. I wouldn't do that in public when you're trying to do cardio next to me. I just don't think if people realize that by point is it's louder. Like if you're having a walking or a treadmill and you were talking to them, that's fine. Obviously. But I don't think because I do it. Nick, you'll walk up and I'm going to sit and I'm like, I got three more to go. She's like, you're fucking yelling. I do that on the plane. Oh. And then I'm like, I was that guy. You don't have a main. So you're being odd to one off so you can hear your own voice. You literally yelled at the whole gym. You have three sets left. I do that on the plane. Victoria gets very embarrassed. Michael Scott's so funny. One more meme. Just one more. Watch this one. This one's the best season for episode six. Killed me every time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's how the C. K. I take you anywhere. Scott. Oh, man. You guys were talking TV before we started. And I stopped you. I was like, stop for the show. There's a TV show you're watching dusty. Oh, you're watching a drama. Yeah. That. I don't know why you didn't turn me onto that earlier. Ron, since I know you've seen it. I mean, we watched an episode of we're like 20 minutes and I looked at him. Like this is a mess. I love it. Oh, it's just, it's just getting. We watched three episodes straight last time. I finally got a bad name. I'm like, I could have watched four more without it's a hard lesson in how badly the police. Oh, yeah. Bumbled and fumbled and completely screwed up the handling of him. They could have arrested him way before a nickname. Nor did the signs ignore the neighbors. They can call them. They didn't front of them. Yeah. And that neighbor kept calling and complaining and no one did a single thing. And it is a crazy story. And I remember, I was in high school when when that all like the late 80s or the 90s, right? I was coming into high school. I remember it like happening. I remember them catching every dollar. I remember seeing it in the news when they were like, how many of us apartment with like bags and you know, evidence. Yeah. Empty. Maybe there was a human head and you know, the faster there was the the Vat with the chemicals in it and the body disposal and the freezer full of meat and just insane shit. And I remember everyone being like, you know, because at the time that was like the ultimate predator. Yeah. You know, hitting the news and everything like people just couldn't comprehend. I mean, it already had some assam and all those killers. But he was cannibalizing them. And like it was the next level of like horror, real life horror that we were all living on the six o'clock news every night as the evidence of the case came out in the trial. Yeah. And like, you know, and that was back in a different time when we were all in a monoculture, right? Everyone was aware. Yeah. Nowadays like if you're my fits on in your algorithm, you haven't heard the news. You know, watch cable. You don't know that some guy got arrested for that. You need to be shit. Yeah. Plus he's happening like every other week. No. Yeah. Now back then that was the the days of the monoculture, which is a topic I love talking about by the way, if anyone wants to look into that. But we grew up in a monoculture and it's so amazing to think about how ever how connected everyone was by everything like that. Like the next day, you could just say, H.C. and news and everyone just be like, oh my god, like everyone knew what was going on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's a great. So I think it's, you know, so we started obviously with the last show I told you we were watching. So we're on like a serial killer run. Okay. Also watching on on prime Hannibal have you seen that? No. Oh, yeah. They did great job of that. That was good show. We're into that one as well. Oh, man. He's a great actor. So you finished the profiler or whatever. Oh, yeah. It was called the profiler. My hunter. My hunter. Yeah. Yeah. That show was that good. And now we're just locked into serial killer. So, you know, just a normal night at the Han sauce deciding between Hannibal and we're on season two of Jack Ryan. And it's, I love that show. Like, great show. Really good. And season season. The moment was great, right? But season two, I feel like they took it up and not. I'm definitely plugged into that one. Ron, did you guys finish Fargo? We finished season four. Okay. Okay. So season four was a little slower of a lug. That was the little harder season. But it a payoff at the end was really good. I like how it wrapped up. And then when you realize like the little boy grows up and you realize my favorite character. These are my favorite character in the guy he's great. And you realize who the little boy becomes in the later in the earlier seasons. And you're like, oh, now it all kind of ties together. What do they make? Sure. Also, like, it wasn't my favorite season, but I thought Chris Rock was awesome in it. Oh, he really, really, really, really can he's a great actor man. Like, he really nailed that part. He did a fantastic job. And it's cool. Because we all think Chris Rock is a comedian and stuff. But he's got some, he's got the ability to, to lay it down as an actor. So great. So we're going to wrap up season five. We're going to finish the, we got the John Ham season coming up. So we'll see how that goes. It definitely is more energetic, energetic. It, it picks up and yeah, it's definitely it's going to it's good. You'll enjoy. I think you'll enjoy it. It's a little more fun too. Okay. Okay. Cool. Cool. Okay. So is that it, boys? That's good. We're showing the books. A show. We've, we've suggested shows that we're doing it all. We're good. So remember like share, subscribe comment and ring the bell. That's right. And remember, I'm you in dot com, go to i'm you in dot com, get your ice and surge, get your all in, get your mind if K and everyone should get on the gear. That's a gear. Okay. Big Ron and dusty are your codes. Save 20% of white people. Thanks everybody and remember it's just bodybuilding.

Yeah, I think most people, and I would feel this way, I mean completely transparent. If I didn't use trainer would feel like I left something on the table. So that's more the, but in my defense too, I don't have those sleek problems and trend that a lot of people have. So I mean, that sleep is much, but the quality of sleep is still really good. So I don't have to deal with that as much, but I'm with you. It can certainly be done. It's an individual thing, case by case basis. And if people want to leave it out, more power to them, just like you said, I love DHB. I think if I wasn't to use trainer, probably would use DHB. What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with coaches. Skip, Hill, Andrew, Barry, and myself, Scott McNally, we're brought to you by TrueNutrition.com These are code, think over there. If you're in Canada, go to supplementsource.ca. They have great deals that change week to week and we are brought to you by you. The people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. Stuff I just came up with a topic for is that we thought we all thought would be fun. He said, how about this one? What should modern body builders be grateful for when compared to the old school preps of 20 plus years ago? It's a fun topic. I like this. Let's give one and we end on in order so it won't just take all of each others. Yeah, there you go. Go ahead, Skip. Okay. Great for for. I remember the only diet soda really that was any good was diet right. So I'm grateful that there are numerous options. I'm a, I'm a lacroye sparking water guy. Yeah, you are. Let's see what the only thing that you could flavor. I remember when it came out. Flavor your food with that was supposed to be like, ah, it's new cool butter buds. When that came out, man, all of a sudden we got to have potatoes. We're going to have baked potatoes. We're going to put butter buds on it. Oh, wait. The first ingredient is maltodextrin. Great, great move. They're real smart. Anyway, if you used artificial. Artificial. You're okay. It's a chemicals, a bunch of crap. But anyway, that was the prepping that prepping the early days. So grateful for he listed a bunch of things. I mean, well, hold on. Hold on, hold on. Because we're, what did you say intro? You're like, list one and we'll go around. Yeah, if you go around around circle. Okay. What about it? You're that I, we used to roast him, Skip. I know, I was just talking to those things like you wanted to do. Go ahead. Yeah, you were saying around. Go ahead, Andrew. I'm just clogging it up here. All right. So I want to say modern bodybuilders today have access to gear that a lot of guys back in the day just didn't have access to at least on like the local NPC love for even like the Gen Pop level that that want to pursue bodybuilding, but maybe not even get on stage. I mean, we've all we've felt so far as before about how hard it was to actually acquire you know, different BEDs and a lot of cases you had to make them on your own and then it became hard to do that. So I'll just say having an Amazon.com like a fact of being able to put an order in and have gear on your doorstep 2 to 3 days later. I think that's helped a lot. So we've got modern condiments and sugar free sugar free stuff diet foods that you can use. Those are, I think that is huge and they have so many of them now availability to gear. I think is huge. I'll add to that. I'll add to that. You don't what and it's something that we knock to not really knock, but as Skip, you've called it the giant sea of turds. There's so many coaches out there and a lot of them are the best, but we do have a lot of good coaches too. So I'll say the availability of coaching and education that I remember my first show. This is how I met my coach. I was posting on RX muscle when it first came out or it might have been MD. And I said, you know, I'm getting ready to do a show and I'm thinking about doing this show in Illinois and I mentioned something about the posing there. And I said, but I'm from Michigan, you know, and do I need to do this post, hit the post this way if I do the show in Illinois? And somebody commented back and he was like, oh, you're in Detroit, do you need somebody to help you with the show or something? You know, we started talking on DM and he was like, yeah, man, come on out to Farmington Hills Powerhouse, I'll take a look at you. So because of bodybuilding, I met a guy that I only met online in a locker room and took off all my clothes in front of him within the first five minutes. That was my experience with coaching was like meeting some random dude because I didn't have access to skip or anything like that, you know, at the time they were coaching was limited. It turned out to be a real good friend of mine to this day now, Rick Wettmore, and he helped me out of town and I learned a ton from him. He was coached by Dave Columbo at the time. So, and of course, he basically just did like the same stuff Dave did for him, you know what I mean? But I'll add that all that coaching. What do you got to get, what's your next one? Well, let me add one more thing to Scott's point about like meeting some guy that you met on the internet take your clothes off with them. Well, because the cool thing about the internet is it allows you to have that people, right? Like, oh, you guys got an Instagram, you coaches people now, you know, yeah. You know, if he says he's a coach, you know, he's a coach because he's got a body work to show it. Whereas because I'm thinking back to your point, I remember Scott, which got a gun the other way for you of, there was this guy who ran a thing called North American Bodybuilding. I'm sure you guys have got emails from him too in the past like 20 years ago. And his thing was he tried to get young, up and coming bodybuilders, descend him, posing pictures, and then like, so I, you know, I got an email and I was like, oh, someone's ditched in my bodybuilding. He wants to feature me in a magazine and try to get me a supplement contract. That was his pitch, a supplement contract. So I sent him like some pictures and stuff. And he's like, okay, cool. So for the artistic stuff, the guys want to know if you can do some nude portfolios. And I'm like, what? Like, there's no supplement company that's going to feature me nude in a magazine or something, you know? And so my point being is that it was a lot easier to hide your true motives back than I think. And now with the internet, you're able to kind of vet people on, oh, this is who they say they are. So because I could have gone the other way for YouTube Scott, where he's like, oh, yeah, I'm a coach. I help people out with bodybuilding, compose for me, body like, can, you know, you can DM your nude to anybody you want nowadays with modern body. Yeah, no, yeah, you're right. I did get lucky, I guess. I'm going to stay on the food area in the food area. I think the quality of food. And I'm saying this because I'm older now when I was younger, I really didn't care. I'd buy the cheapest chicken I could get like, if I can get it for a $1,000, I'll buy it. These days, I pay like 12 or 13 dollars a pound for chicken and it just shows up at my front door. And I don't have to spend the time to go get it. So the advancements in technology, I think, for food are great too. I mean, we have so much access to so much or I know people will say, all organic doesn't matter. If it doesn't matter to you, that's fine. But you're not 55 and you haven't been, I don't know, you know, taking compounds for 30 plus years that you want to make sure that your health is a good order so that you can continue to do what you're doing and enjoy your quality of life. So I'm going to, I'm going to stay in the foot. I think the advancements are availability to these types of things and it's not just food, but I'm staying focused on food. It's just leaps and bounds. It's just so much now at the same time. United States still lags behind a lot of other countries for our quality of food. We have to pay so much more through these whole foods and to get this quality of food where in other countries it's pretty much like that at every grocery store you go to. You go to the UK. Yeah. All of their grocery stores are expensive like whole foods and places like that. So here you just pay more and if you don't have the money too then I just just get the crap food. Dude, Gus, my friend of mine, a friend of mine that we're visiting from Australia and they came to do stuff at the Arnold cage, showed you their video, Gus and Sarah. So they did a tour around the US or around the Midwest really and they were fascinated by Walmart because Walmart you could buy like these super sized bags of cereal that were like XX XL and they're like, oh my god. Yeah, Walmart's so crazy. We really want to check that out and we really want to try American fast food. They got such a terrible picture of what American food is because the only grocery store they went to was Walmart. Like over there all their beef is delicious. It's awesome meat man. But you go to Walmart dude and you get the cheapest bottom of the, and that's their like man. Your guys' food isn't a taste terrible here. You know, because that's all they knew was that in fast food restaurants on the side of the highway and in Ohio. You know? We have so many fast food and I wasn't even that aware of that until being in Florida all the time now. But whereas like for Mont, we had Burger King McDonald's KFC, the Taco Bell, and Chipotle, right? Like those are like probably the main ones. You come down here and on my road alone. Cains. Never heard of it. Carl's Jr. Yeah, I mean like literally heard of it though. Every single fast food place I feel like is on this strip and if not, it's in Tampa or it's on the next highway over it. In a way that kind of discussed me to tell you the truth because you just see so many cars going there. But I'm a good back to topic. I'm going to say the training equipment. I think some innovators have done a really good job with, you know, particularly pieces for back and leg training where I'm just thinking, you know, way my body feels today and it's probably probably you probably have more aches and pains than I do. Having to just do rely on squats and dead lifts and barbell rows and dumbbell rows and those types of things like I don't know if I'd still be able to train regularly anymore if I was unable to get into machines that were just supported and had all these different nice angles. And you just saw a lot of guys have put some innovations and well thought out processes into designing the equipment. And so I'm thankful for that for sure. You know, I'm thinking of what, you know, even brands like Hammer Strength which has been around forever. A lot of their stuff is still good. But the newer brands like the new tech, the Penauda Prime, you know, Prime, like all the stuff is just great stuff that we didn't have access to what 20, 15, 10 years ago even. So yeah, the bottom body builders. In a way that might be, it might hold some younger body builders back that don't, as they build a base, but don't get the build the base of doing the basics, you know, over and over again. But then again, maybe they're going to be, the joints are going to be healthier when they're our age. So who knows? How about I, and I feel like I'm going to run out of stuff real quick now. But I'm going to throw in, I'll say, and this is kind of, I don't know, it's not as important, but there are some really good clothing brands in body building now. It's, it's so much more mainstream that if you wanted cool body building clothes, you had like, when I was younger, you had like gasped or you bought like an animal brand t-shirt. Like, most of it was like, just like oversized terrible feeling material clothing, you know, in the 2000, early 2000s, whereas now it's like, man, these, these sweats are like tailored to look good on you, no matter how much muscle you have, you know, in the materials real nice, great, you pay for it. They're like, you know, $120 for a pair of sweats, but not all of it though. Like, I've got some young, young, yellow shorts that were like 30 bucks. And the material, man, like, would put my hands in my pockets, I'm like, man, these shorts are like a nice, that's kind of like that kind of like spongy cotton, you know what I'm talking about, real kind of soft feeling. They're about 30 bucks or something. So yeah, I'll go with the new, the new clothes. And I think part of it is just because the sport is so much more popular now that there's enough of a market that companies are, you know, making stuff like this. Well, I saw an article, like a month or so ago about the guy that started Jim Shark, and he just started like stitching clothes together himself. He was going to do one business or the other and he had, let's say 500 bucks or something like that. And he just started making clothes and selling them to people. And now the companies worth like billions of dollars or something like that. And he's just like, and he's still maintains control, managerial control of the company. I mean, that just to think like a bodybuilder who just had an idea like, I'm going to make some clothing. And I know Jim Shark is not the most hardcore brand out there. So it maybe doesn't appeal to hardcore bodybuilders, but more so than general population. But I think it's more of a, you know, accredited to him for his business sense along with taking a passion of his and developing it into a very high earning brand, pretty, you know, just I like those stories. Just funny because that's where I was going to go with my next one is I'm going to speak for myself, not necessarily modern bodybuilders, but I am grateful for as much as I bitch about the internet and social media without it. I'd have a regular job of my life would be dramatically different. That's true. So being in the industry with that, you'd be Ken. Yeah, exactly. I mean, me not being in the position that I am would have altered my life so much because of raising four kids and the convenience that that it allowed me to be home, be more of a dad almost arguably make my wife feel like she was the one missing from sports and things like that because she had a regular job. And I'd have to remind her all the time. I'm just fortunate. And we're fortunate is a family that I'm able to do that and get the kids to where they, you know, where they go and you have a professional job and you're very good at your job and you're revered. So, you know, we're in a pretty good spot. I am very grateful for that part. But there's a lot of things I complain about, but without the technology, without the internet, without all the social media, I have a pretty boring, pretty boring average mediocre type of existence and income quite frankly. Yeah, that's a great one, man. We should probably enter if you've got one throw it out and I could think of some, I started to get more and more. Okay, yeah, I'm going to go say more than a year. Yeah. But I was going to say, you know, because I mentioned the access to PEDs in general, but I'm going to say the innovation with new PEDs, particularly to get people in the internet. Like, you know, the retitude tied, the SLUs, all the different peptides for healing, all these different things that we don't think of is just like your straight body building drugs, but in the game of body building really help people out, especially when they're dieting. You know, I mean, we all know we've done diets where it was, you got your chicken and rice and sometimes it was just chicken and veggies five, six times a day, you did your cardio and you suffered through it and, you know, it was a test of wheels on not cheating. Whereas today, people have a lot of modalities that can use to make the hurt side of body building a little bit easier going into prep and that goes with, you know, the sugar free stuff and all the different, I mean, an injured creamy, you can make a, you're protein powder taste like ice cream, like like, like whoever heard of that, you know. So just the innovations with both PEDs, food products, all that kind of stuff, just making the dieting part a lot easier. All right, and we'll move on because we know we had some other stuff. And we're on a tight schedule today. All throw my last one in then as, um, and it ties into Andrew's first, which was the availability of gear. I'll say like availability to TRT, you know, good luck in 2006 getting a TRT prescription, especially if you were under 35 years old. Like you really have to do some work to make that happen. All right, let's see. We got some other stuff here. You see Suma, I asked him to throw some questions out to us. And, uh, what does he say here? Oh, he was listening to some of his own. He was listening. Yeah, things of his own, uh, good tasting protein powders, streaming music services. Yeah, I challenge everybody at home who's watching this to share yours. What are, what are the things that you're grateful for in modern day body building? And it's really kind of a cool thing because, uh, you know, gratitude will, make you feel, you know, it'll, it'll gratitude will change your attitude if you're feeling like crap. So there's that. We all know that creatin is great for muscle building, but were you aware of its benefits for brain health? Uh, I think it's problems creatin. No, it's definitely pronounced creatin. No, it's definitely creatin. I'm positive. Yeah, that's pretty much what I said, creatin. Pre-eaten? Well, regardless of what you want to call it, creatin plays an important role in brain health. Research demonstration your brain needs a significant amount of ATP to perform difficult tasks supplementing with creatin will improve phosphocreatin stores, helping your brain produce more ATP. So if you're not on creatin now, give it a try. Check out true nutrition.com. Use our code, think over there. They got all your basic health supplements like creatin, protein powder. Everything else you can think of. Use our code, think to help support our programming, get some additional savings and get a great supplement. Yeah, this is definitely creatin. How about this one? We had somebody ask us, is it possible? And I know we've talked about this before, is it possible to grow into a show? And if so, is there, is there something that we do specifically to like, can we like set that up, skip? Like if I hired you as a coach, can I be like skip? I want to do this contest and I specifically want to grow into it. Can we make that happen? What would it take? I think on one hand, it's a bit of a misnomer and I'll explain why. But there are some people who are just genetically gifted who can grow into shows near their reasons for that. But it's kind of have to be an outlier to do that. Here's the misnomer. A lot of times growing into show, or growing into a show is actually getting peeled, getting your condition to be just insane, very low body fat. And then the last four, five, six weeks as calories increase, cardio decreases, clerk output decreases. We call that growing into a show when in reality we're either maintaining or even slightly increasing our scale weight and our condition. We're getting fuller. We're not in as much of a depleted beat down feet, feel like cinder block type of situation. And that's more, I think, more common when we say growing into a show. So backing off those four, five, six weeks because you're ahead and you've done the bulk of the work to that point. And that's what we call or that's what we label growing into a show. That happens a far more frequently. Now, there's still, it doesn't have it all the time. Sometimes you're racing to clock, sometimes you're behind, sometimes the body is just not responding. And you have to die it into the show. But I think that's, I'm curious what you guys think. But that's what I think of when I think of growing into a show. I feel like a grew into most shows because my friends, they was always to be in shape right early. And then three, four weeks out, five weeks out, start adding more food in, training got to be fun again. And it's also typically the highest PD load I'd be using for most of the year or out of that year. You know, like my PD loads for contest prep are definitely more than my off season typically. So more antibiotics, more most proteins synthesis, yeah, you're eating less calories. But I think when you structure the diet right and you structure the prep right, as skip was pointing out. If you're, if you're ahead of the game and you're ready, you know, you're like 95% there at at five weeks out, you're going to have a great opportunity to grow into show because you're basically reversing into the show. And you're reducing fatigue because you're not doing nearly as much cardio your output is down. So I do think there's ample opportunities. And I see a lot more guys programming their preps these days by starting their prep leaner to begin with versus get as big as you possibly could. And then 12 or 15 weeks out, race to the clock to try to strip all the fat off. Right. And then it doesn't happen for everybody, you know, some people do have to do two hours of cardio up until a week before the show to whether it's making a weight kind of thing or whether it's you just had a hard prep, you know. I remember my 2018 prep. I had one of those hard preps where two and a half hours of cardio a day, you know, no carbs for about a month straight. I certainly was not growing into that show. And I would definitely say that my look on stage was more of a flatter side than it was and maybe previous or years after that where I did have a little bit of a better approach. And my body was just responding. I think a lot of that comes down to stressors, though, you know, what else is going on in your life, what else is going on at work. All those different factors, you know. But yeah, I do think you can grow into a show. I think it's based off structuring it the right way. And of course, you know, ahead of the game. And which one of the more enjoyable those last few weeks? You're going to feel like a million bucks. And especially it's like,ologically coming into a show going, man, I'm not, you don't feel like death. I'm going to kill this. Well, it's like every day you go to the gym and you're wearing a tank thought, you're like, I'm on stage today. Like, I look sick from, I look 3D. I look sick from all angles. Right. And it's like, you're, you're, you're, it's one of, it's when you're not afraid to strip out at any point of the day and hit some poses for somebody. That's when you know you're ready early. And, and you kind of are grown and volumeize it into the show when whether it's after one meal, whether it's fasted, whether it's at the gym after training, you're like, I'll pose in front of anyone. Right now, I feel great. So yeah, that's a million dollar feeling. And I wish I could have that back right now. Like, that was one of the best feelings of bodybuilding in the world. Yeah. All of this that also like actually growing muscle say from the time that you begin prep to after the prep's over, you know, you've kind of filled back out. We're not saying like you did a big like reverse and, you know, grew during that. But I think the smaller you are to start, like the less muscle you have to start and were you following a plan already, you know, if I reach out to skip and I've been doing nothing for like the past two years. But then I start working with skip for the next 22 weeks and I'm like nailing my protein every single meal. I'm hitting the gym. I'm training hard. Like Andrew you said that like your PEDs, you know, we're going to be up because I've seen that, you know, we're somebody, especially like a men's physique guy who might not be completely focused year round comes out the other side bigger and better than when he started it, you know. And we went back when we had Dom Kooze on, we looked at that information about even growing in a deficit that they're saying like 500 cal deficit, you can still grow muscle. And that's naturally, you know, I've seen one of my guys that I've worked with local guy friend of mine, Vachay. Small men's physique natural guy. Even I saw him, his pictures before the show and side by side with pictures after and I was like, oh my god, no question, he's bigger now than he was before he started, you know. So I think there's a ceiling to that, you know, like the bigger you get the less likely you're going to be able to continue like laying on new tissue. But I definitely see it in people that are like in their earlier shows to keep getting better and you know. Let me give you a quick example and it's funny because I actually crapped on these things in the previous episode about those in body or those those scans that, you know, the gym's try to get you to do. But anyway, this woman that I have had done one at the beginning of her prep right now, she's like six weeks out from her show and it shows that she has put on two and a half pounds of muscle while dropping, I think it was like seven or eight percent of the body fat. So take care for what you will, you know, if someone were to send me that. When they tell us things we like, yeah, I'm just going to say I'm going to have that's here on those machines. But you know, okay, let's just put it this way. At least it's not showing that she lost muscle in the process. Yeah. Yeah. We got a fun one. And this is UC summa, the guy that I work with. And so his question is basically, or topic is trend free prep. And this is a conversation we just had. So he's like 10, 12 weeks out and I mentioned you guys before the show. He's looking really good. Like I would say that the last couple years we've really freaking nailed it with him and we figured out how to really have successful off seasons. We set him up in a great position. He's had a little bit of time off and we're just starting gear up now at around 12 weeks out. Like we haven't had to really push. And honestly, I feel like if we were to just manipulate a few factors, he could do a show might be his best. But he could do a show in like three or four weeks, like not kidding. Just get the skin to tighten up. So we're going to have a lot of room. And he's saying, you know what, man? Trying to, I'm having a great time. I've been doing really good. Like my mindset mood is awesome right now. What do you think about not using trend for this prep? I mean, I wouldn't do it for myself. I know. Yeah. But I understand the situation if the athletes like, hey, like, and the visuals and everything's coming together, I totally get it. Like, you know, because I think we all probably have some athletes that are like, I can't use trend for prep. And yeah, I'm not like, well, we can't prep them. You know, I'm just like, okay, we just won't use it. There's other compounds, you know? I'm like, I got a guy who does really good with DHB and it gives him that same trend like look. And that's what we use instead of trend, you know? Okay. Um, but yeah, and I got a really good friend, uh, to 12 pro who, one year just decided I'm not using trend. And he, he did all the things that, most, most bodybuilders, there would be no nose and coaches would say, now we can't do that. Like he ran long-estored testosterone right through the show at like 900 milligrams a week and he relied on some master on and then I think someone's strong. And I think that was his total PED load. Me, me, I have some some GH, but no trend. Now we have our, I dare not do long acting test all the way in, believe it or not. Okay. Okay. So, all right. So one coach would. I didn't think I was alone. I didn't think I was alone. I'm just not, you're not. I'm just saying and I'm not saying anyone's right with, there's a million ways to, to, yeah, make the sandwich right. And it's not like my way is the one right way because every other coach that's good gets their athletes in shape looking the way they should do. So, and maybe they do something completely different. So I'm not trying to say, I'm just saying, I think we, it's more traditional to use a fast-ero, you know, a test prop, yeah, to use trend during prep. And, and I'm saying that's what I've always responded to. It's typically where I'm going to lean, but if a client is like, like, like, you see saying, let's do this thing without prep, at least for one show and see how it looks and if we want to add it in, we can always add it in for the second show. I think that's a great strategy. Yeah. Yeah. I think most people, and I would feel this way, I mean, completely transparent. If I didn't use trend, I would feel like I left something on the table. Yeah. So that's more the, but in my defense too, I don't have those sleek problems and trend that a lot of people have. So I mean, that sleep is much, but the quality of sleep is still really good. So I don't have to deal with that as much, but, but I'm with you. It can certainly be done. It's an individual thing, case by case basis. And if people want to leave it out, more power to them, just like you said, I love DHB. I think if I wasn't to use trend, I probably would use DHB. We can try that if you want that. We've never, I don't think he's ever used it. I feel like I like DHB too, the, the and to be completely transparent, the year that I didn't use trend, I used DHB. I look, I like it was one of my favorite looks at the time as a middleweight. I like trend though personally. Like I would want to use it. I feel like there's that thing that happens. Like let's say if everything's moving along and you add the trend in, you know that you're probably only going to be heavier in bigger, you're going to be bigger. Basically, it's just going to get back to week. It's just going to be better. Yeah, but listen, we do it with nothing, right? We could do it with TRT if the client wanted to. Yeah, no good. I think the point is that your something. Quick little, quick little observation. I went to the gym a couple nights ago. It's starting to get depleted, looking at a high carb day a couple days later, which is today. And I just started using a supplement that kind of old school fat burning. I thought to myself when I started training back, I'm like, wow, I've not used this before. This is like the contractions are just insane. Like where is this? I'm coming from. Then I realized I had changed anovars. And my other anovars was underdose. And it me the first day. I'm like these contractions. Oh my god, I love anovars. Love it. In one day, felt that difference in one day. We're seeing it live coaching change. Yeah, I was good to say we're doing coaching right now. Right now, the as Matt says, let's try DHB or order it now. If it doesn't work, we'll shift to trend ACE for the second or third show. Here's a show to do it. What's your are you doing, Matt? What's that? What's that first one that's coming up? He's done the same that there's one that he really likes. So we're, he's a pro, right? No, no, no, he's amateur. Oh, but it's going to be August and then November. And then we'll see what all's happens because he's like I said, he said, I'm just not know. I like that you're seeing a live coaching happening at this moment. Yeah. We had a question for you, Andrew. It had to do and we got a role pretty soon here. So let's answer this question and then talk about what we're going to do with insane set. But there was a question, Andrew, for you about hernia surgery. Do you remember what that was off hand? Yeah, it was asking if I got, if I got my subsequent hernia's due to coming back, like going back to training too quickly, I believe. Oh, yeah. No, so my story is I went in for the hernia surgery and while I was under, they found two more that they repaired at the same time. So yeah, so I actually had three hernia's roughly in the same spot. One was just much more obvious than the other one. But in terms of recovery, and I say this about everything body building related in terms of surgeries and stuff, take whatever the doctors say because they're telling you recovery times based off of general population people that are not going to be doing the stuff that we're doing in terms of, you know, BPC, TB, stay an active, eating a lot of protein, like I stayed on my body building diet, you know, pulled carbs and calories overall down because I wasn't training for about a week actually. So the doctors told me I shouldn't be back in the gym for at least a month and a half, right? And I'm like, yeah, no, I waited until the clotting issue would have possibly been out of the way about a week to 10 days and then I was back in the gym the first week after that, doing treadmill, you know, walking in at least 30 minutes a day, just getting some movement, blood flow. By the second week, I was in there doing some very, very late, you know, shoulder and arm exercises, making sure that I wasn't doing anything that was going to brace my core, meaning like the opposite, what we normally do with exercises, right? Where you try to keep, I try to purposely just let everything relax and just focus on moving the muscle I was trying to move. So obviously, weights were super low. By week three, four, you know, I was doing some like leg extensions, leg curls, so doing more upper body stuff. And then by week like six or seven, I was to leg press, you know, I was back to squatting again. I think it was 10 weeks later, because I remember I got a video on my Instagram. 10 weeks later, I walked into the gym, I'm like, let's see where I'm at. I did some ham curls and then I did squats and I just went one plate, two plate, three plate, four plate five and I got five for ten and I'm like, I'm good. So yeah, I was actually kind of impressed that I kept all that strength. But I think it was because I got right back to movement, same protein, you know, recovery peptides and just not trying to feel like a victim of like, oh, I can't do anything. So I was actually going to say something to Paul last episode, like do everything you can and you're going to come back so much faster, but if someone's kind of in the mood and he's like, yeah, don't push him. If they're not ready to hear, don't push him, you know. Yeah, so I'm in a skip. We also I wanted to ask you about your prep, somebody said how things going. Things are going great. A little more aggressive move because we're at that just under 11 weeks. So at 12 weeks to six week push is going to get, I'm going to feel it, but I'll also be getting my cheekbones. So, you know, nothing that isn't expected at this point, but it's going to be a grind and I'm looking forward to it. So, feed our sender blocks. The hardy is tolerable, but it's going up quite a bit. I'll just feel it here by next week. So, and then you get the compounds coming in at 10 weeks. So, you know, things are changing a little bit. The old school fat burner, so it was a kind of fun because I haven't haven't used some of that stuff in a while, but it's it's it's good. It's good. It's excited. It's fun. It's good. It's and I don't have to stress. I'm loving it. That's cool, man. So, for insane set, what do we want to set up for rules? Because basically as I mentioned it, I did a little blurb that I dropped in the last episode that we just like, there were so many of them. You know, it was really hard to what do we want to do? Andrew, like a one particular body part. Sure. Okay. What body part then I guess to start. Do we want to do it for next week? And a lot of like stuff. Lovely. I mean, here's the thing. There's no insane biceps up, right? Yeah. Like there's just like there's no insane tricep press down. You know, like it's, my idea of like an insane set, it incorporates, you know, both a strength and some type of endurance because you mentally have to override the fact that your body's running out of oxygen. Your muscles are screaming stop and you keep going and going. You know? So body part man, it's hard to say. What do you think skip? What body part do you want to see? I want to see, because there's been a lot of legs. I'd like to see back. The problem with back is there's a lot of gray area because then we can get into partials and we're going to get into form. But maybe because of those gray areas that's where the judging criteria kind of comes into play. I think it's good. I think it's a good call. The other thing is in the same set at some point with some of these things, especially back, the form is going to break down because you're really just you're willing yourself to move that bar, move that handle another repetition. When the muscles and your lungs are screaming, so it's hard to say, you know what when you see it, right? It's a damn, that was crazy. Even if the form got a little loose at the end, you're like, that was a crazy set. So use those parameters guys. We can't define it, but we know when we see it, one of those types of things. It's subjective just like a fuzzy judging of the ZGIS. Are we going to continue judging this or do we want to let the people judge or I think we'll let the people judge? I do too. I believe the people judge. We're a work community. So we're happy to be able to comment with who they want to win. Yeah. I think maybe okay. What we do is the, the, maybe the Tuesday before our show. On the, on the, on the Think Big Page, we just put the names of the sets that have come in that two week period and people can put down a look and see and then vote on who they want. Is it okay? Do you do a poll, right? We do a poll. Sorry, do a poll. All right. All right. Well, look for that in the group then that'll be coming out then Tuesday before we record. Well, yeah. I guess it'll be after this show. So it's just look for the poll. It'll be in the group when we're ready. And yeah, then we'll take care of it from there. We'll figure it out. We appreciate you guys tuning in. Thank you for watching another episode and leave us questions for the next show. We're going to need a bunch of questions. Load us up over there and load us up for questions over at Patreon. We have had more people joining the Facebook group, which is for an awesome bunch of people who have said, I love blood sweat and gear. I have one question just to keep the bots out and keep the, you know, the geared healers out in the fake deer, geolored gear dealers. It's what's your favorite podcast on the network? You have to answer that. If you don't answer that, I literally will delete your entry to join the group. And a lot of people have said, B.S.G. Love B.S. G. So thank you guys for hanging out with us and following the show. Of course, go to supplementsourst.ca if you're in Canada because they do have great deals. You know, you like deals. Go there. Supplement source there. And of course, uh, Trinutrition.com in the US user code, think over there, get the team skip blend. And, uh, of course, uh, like I said, Patreon, little help with the questions and go to bodybary.com to reach out to Andrew for coaching. Guys already know that. Go to team skip.com to reach out to skip. You know that as well. You know you can hit me up at McNally diets at gmail.com and for another episode of Blood Sweat and Gear Guys will see you soon. Thank you everybody in the live stream. And thank you to you gentlemen for hanging with me for the last couple hours recording these shows. This is always fun. Appreciate you. Brandon Rear Deltz. Well, back to what I was like here. Exactly. Um, all right, we are live again. We may or may not have people find us, uh, because I didn't say, usually we keep going, but since we had Paul, I wanted to stop so that we could get those recordings. You know what I mean? Yeah. Um, if you joined back into the live stream, leave us a note. I mean, I raised for 33 years. So, and I don't know if you guys do this with your wives, but I fuck with my wife so bad and do things that I know she can't stand. So if I'm walking from a bra of cough, I'm going to be like, I'll have gum or like one of these pouches. Yeah. And it usually comes shooting out of my mouth that when it didn't, and she just fucking hates it, because she thinks that's why I'm because she doesn't know any different. She expected it to be my body, huh? She's not very brave for a while. You know, I can say all those things because she doesn't listen to shit. She's like, oh, yeah, why just show them like really? Because my trash, you're pretty bad at the sudden. We have that question. Um, about GHK copper. You guys use any of that yet? I haven't. Have you just started the facial application and then I also have the injectable that I'm going to start today. I have some orations. GHK CU. Also for repairative collagen synthesis and all that. But it seems like you can use it for, you can apply topically, you take it orally, put in your hair, you can inject it, you can do a, you know, some link will, you can do a repository who can, um, all of the good stuff. All right. Well, let's talk, let's, what else do we have? See if we have any, I was going to say maybe skip read up on it and see what you think about it. Maybe we'll use it for a different show. Down the road. All right. And I'll have like a couple weeks of using it. But for next time, and Scott, you've been using it, right for your hair or for, no, I have some, I have some oral, I haven't started it yet. So I got you. I think I do a lot of things at a time. All right. So topic for today. Is that related? Yeah. I think drug groups are good. It's a good, drug content season. But we did have a question. Can you grow into a show, which we have, kind of, we have talked about like can you grow while dieting? You know, so there is something around that if there's a spin on that question. Yeah. Growing into a show. Growing into a show. Weird out. It's up stuff. I'm, what's some good questions for us? Trend shots and you're weird out. That's the clean. Skip. What's your experience so far working with a coach for a product? There's a question like skip. Don't like them until yesterday. What coaches? What don't tell us? Well, ask you on the show. Coaches working with other coaches. Skip calls out Justin Harris on the next. That's right. The details of Skip's plan that you must have been must have been. Yeah. Chip. Oh, Chip. Oh, Chip. Oh, Chip. Oh, Chip. Chip Hill versus Chipone in nutrition. Dominates. Destroy. Skip. He'll destroy. That's the only way to pay. No need to pay Justin when you get the information straight from. Skip. There you go. There you go. Yeah. Like that. We were asked what's worse to the three beers a day or one to two antitraille a day. Is it topic for us? You see, Suma. What's the topic for us? Yeah. That might be a good topic or a good caption. Which one of you faster? Which one of you faster? Oh, yeah. It's a good one. Yeah. Which one of you faster? Oh, yeah. It's the one we got to dance around these words. It is. You see, Suma is looking incredible by the way, guys. We figured out some stuff. He's a guy that if we try to push his bodyweight super hard in the off season, then he's got to work really hard to get lean again. You know, and oh, that's how he says it. Well, it's Matt Matt. This is name. I thought it was oxymor. Oxymor. You also known as oxymor, but he is like, you know what? 10 12 weeks out now and he's looking like he could just like drop some water. It's pretty cool. No shit. Yeah. That's what a point out. The high-perrophy and high-perrophy. There, that high-perrophy is not incorrect. It's no different than saying frustrated or frustrated. Thank you. Good night call myself. Could I call myself though the high-perrophy? Wait, I can't say it that way. Hyper-type-hot-rovy coach. Yeah, I was going to say that, Andrew. Can I be the high-perrophy coach? Is that a different higher note? That guy lives down here. It's not wrong. He does? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I see him in the gym sometimes. Yeah. Always on your white side of the state. Yeah. Exactly. Wait, that's actually a good way to put it. All right. Pittsburgh pros this weekend or next weekend? Next week. Next week. Yeah. And then we had asked our predictions by one of our Patreon people. What are you going to say predictions for that? Oh, I like stepping there out right there. What's he got? That quite what should modern body builders be grateful for compared to the old school perhaps the 20 years ago. Roach, delivery, I like that. But yeah, liquid egg white. Okay, let's start with that one. You know, let's come up with three, we have to come up with three things each. How about that? Three things. That's great. Modern bodybuilders should be grateful for. Also, I saw a topic. It was for something else, like completely unbodybuilding related and I wrote it down and it was like, and we could shift it to a bodybuilding topic being five things you don't need in bodybuilding or like five things you don't need in your gym bag or you know what I mean? Five things that you don't know while you're died. Don't need. So things that we usually have that we don't need or things that people would expect you to need. Like, I'm going to be doing a contest. So I need to buy these items or like this. Do you need a weight belt? Do you need lifting strips? Do you need knee sleeves? Do you know what I'm saying? Are there any of those items that people assume they need? Something like that, or five things and I don't know. I'm just trying to think of something. You don't know what I mean. Yeah, I just don't think about what I don't need. Yeah, you don't need in your bag. Yeah. But there are people who do you know what I mean? Like if that's what I'm trying to get at and I can't think of it right now. But the top is being I think. Yeah. Okay. Like those BFR straps that people spend like 80 bucks for when you could literally just use your knee wraps. Is that what you're talking about? Like, yeah, something like that, something like that, or are there things that like you get into body building and you buy it or you could be and then you realized on the road that it really was a waste that like, you know, I don't know. I'm so chantsy that I don't buy shit that. Yeah, I got it. It's something that doesn't have a lot of things because the things we buy we need trend, masks and pros. Yeah. Yeah. You can never have enough pins. Got to have extra pins. Yeah. You can't have too many pins. Can you skip? Because there's only an article. That's right. Yeah. Okay. Never mind. Never mind. Yeah. Well, we got to think about it a little bit. That's a hard one. It is a hard one. We're not. Well, let that one. I get what you're going with like it sounds like a sexy topic of like if we could just nail it right though. Yeah. Bright enough. Right. Right. Right. Right. Um, um, all right. What stop we're doing? We're going to do what modern body builders should be clear before we compare to. Okay. Yeah. We'll just bring it in. Look at that stuff on you freaking created a show. How about that?

We're so focused on my favorite protein and our protein needs meeting that needs, but everything else is adapting alongside it. Our tenants need to get stronger, all the connected tissue in the belly of the muscle and the organ that is the muscle or bones need to get stronger, growths are on one helps with all those things. It's going to up with stability with the entire muscular scale system. That's beneficial. I think personally, my big theory with why people tend to grow better at a lot of times with in terms of muscle mass with growth hormone is that it stays off the body fat gains that they would otherwise get that might slow them down just because I'm getting too fat or psychological, they don't want to or simply that they can eat more and have more animal-like drive coming from the incoming food, but at the same time have a better heat ratio, so more muscle mass relative to the body fat. What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with Coach's Skip Hill. Andrew Barry and myself Scott McNeillie and we are joined by Scott Stevenson. What's up Scott? I'm here baby. We're pretty good. Hell yeah. Guys, I'm not a problem talking about. I have no I have no I have to in a rarery anything for today, but that's good. That's a good. That's a good thing for the show. All our programming guys is brought to you by TrueNutrition.com. Use our code, thank for additional savings. We have the have high quality third party tested supplements that are company that you can trust. They're company that all four of us have trusted for literally over decades now. You can go to supplementsourst.ca if you're in Canada and you can get great deals on various products over there as well. So definitely check them out for our Canadians. And of course we're brought to you by Patreon. Skip. Take the wheel here man. It was your thought that we'd bring Scott on and that we'd basically just pick his brain. And I know you need some topic ideas. Exactly. And the topic was difficult to specifically come up with because there are just random things that have, I say popped into my head over the last six, eight months. But it's primarily because of the questions that I'm asked by clients and stuff like that. And sometimes there are those questions and it's funny because trainers don't like to admit this, there might be something that I'm not sure of. You know, know about this. So they just kind of positively and very arrogantly rattle off some that may or may not be true and they may believe or they don't believe. So Scott is kind of the go to guy on things like this. And I have brought it. Okay. What you're saying? No, everybody else does. And then at least at the very least, if you don't know it, you may say you don't know in your like, well, sure, almost like let's let's process this that let's, you know, workers, let's hit it from all these angles. And one of the things that has stood out to me was the, I, Andrew, I got an, on a topic or not a topic, but a discussion about IGF levels versus, well, here, I have it written here and I don't want to mess it up. IGF levels, this, here's my question. IGF levels with split doses versus bowlist doses. The effect or impact it will have on IGF levels. But here's the hang up that I have. We're talking about GH in bowlist dosing versus IGF ones. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you. Yes. I'm so excited and scattered and have many and things on my brain. Thanks for Claire because you're right. It's GH dosing based on the IGF levels. And there's just that bowlist versus split dose, you know, it's kind of a, what is it? Is it an antiquated idea to think that the split dosing is so much better for lipolices versus a bowlist dose for, is it really going to matter? How much is it going to matter? And yeah, yeah, I could keep going and going. What are your thoughts on the split dose versus bowlist dose of GH? So normal GH productions like maybe two I use a day, something like that. That's inogenous production for, you know, larger person. And let's say that you're going to do like 10 I use on Monday, once they Friday, you're doing kind of the bowlist thing. The idea being that that would jack up your IGF one, more so than smaller doses spread throughout. So taking that's 30 I use over kind of six days. Let's say, instead you do five I use a day. So you do like one and a half or a little more than one and a half I use three times a day. Spread it out. If you hit those 10 I use those are going to, that GH is going to be up and out in about eight hours. So you did that in the morning. It's, you know, if you do to eight o'clock, it's pretty much by dinner time. You've got no light policies being driven by the GH. Now if you take one and a half I use or so and then you get yourself up to about five I use a day. You're, you know, two and a half times inogenous production. So you're driving GH light pot, base light policies all day long. If you're spreading those out every hour is roughly or substantially. So that's kind of the the pharmaco kinetic idea of spreading the doses out for better like policies. And I'm, do I remember back in the intense muscle days we were talking about this like you was five, 15 years ago and trying to figure out like wildwood work and I just like maybe I didn't come up with the idea. But it was an idea that I had that by probably took from someone else. But that's kind of what I was thinking is that the higher doses. Because that's that's the thing unless you've got unless you've got acrolegly you've got a patouette Terry tumor and add no money for two to each every you've got giant GH output. 10 I use is way above what you're going to get. Um, at least over that prolonged eight hour period you can get pretty high spikes of GH. But they come, they, they rise and they fall pretty rapidly. So maybe your hack in the system with the big dose and that would be something that would produce the elevated levels of IGF one more so then the same equivalent dose spread out over the same period of time. But in the microdosing of smaller doses. So I don't know the thing that's interesting and I'll let you interject. But um, the internet we're just talking about a situation where someone was had just crazy IGF one response. These guys know about it because. And they backtrack just one sec because when skips started this segment, you know, talking about like coaches like to pretend like they know everything and appear all knowing in front of the clients. And I just want to say like as as a coach been doing this for years. When I don't know something I reach out to my friend groups like Scott. Yeah, I reach out to you about this. I reach out to Scott and skip about about the GH question. Just see, hey, if you guys seen this before, maybe you guys don't know but have you seen something like this before. And I've other groups that you know, uh, I'll rely on too. You know, like Chris Tuddle is a good friend of mine. We share ideas back and forth. And that's what I kind of think of it as a share in ideas, you know, because we all have general knowledge about what we're talking about. Maybe not as specific as the very particular case. But maybe one of our colleagues has seen something and has picked something up along the way that does, you know, fit that niche answer that we're looking for. Right. But um, go back to what Scott Stevenson was just saying about it because I know this person would mind me talking about it. I'm not going to name them, but um, I had a client who I used to work with and he came back after a year and a half. And I don't recall, um, his IGF ever being very high before because it wasn't, um, because we did look back, uh, subsequently. But um, his IGF came back at, uh, 821. I believe it was, which for those who don't very familiar, like that's off the charts, right? Like, like, you know, you're really good at the new range. Yeah. Like, you know, you got some good growth if you're in the fours, you know, high threes, fours. You, if your IGF levels are sitting there, you're like, okay, I'm on some real good stuff. When you see 800, like my jaw drop when I saw that and I was like, this can't be real. But anyway, my plan for him after, you know, talking to Scott Stevenson about this extensively. And we had two hour conversation between two different calls, looking at research papers and, and, you know, going over acromegally cases, etc. Um, we decided pull his GH out and let's see, you know, what, what, what is IGF levels are, you know, naturally. Because we need to find out, hey, does he have a tumor? And is this something that he needs medical attention for, you know, or does he just have some really good stuff? And is he a really good responder? And we got the results back yesterday or day before. And his natural results came back at like 273, 274. So the Ciroly find range. In range, yeah. So the Ciroly find range of, okay, cool. Like, I don't have a client that has a tumor that needs medical care. But also, dude, you got some really good stuff, give me that source. Like, I have a double hand here. But anyway, I just want to interject the facts about it. Yeah. So, but the, he's, he's someone who, you know, is, I would say definitely is a responder in terms of IGF production. And I would imagine, I mean, I could totally imagine their situations where some people are more so responders in terms of lipolysis. It seems, and this is total anecdotal, that the people who, can you probably see this too? Can the people who, and, oh, you guys probably seen this. The people who respond really well to GH, they get all the good stuff and they also will tend to get the facial feature changes. And the, the nose, you know, sort of the bulbous nose. Sometimes I've seen some peaked ears. Yeah. Sometimes it happened people get the cartilage changes. So, that tells me, it suggests to me at least that a lot of tissues, the adipose tissues, adipose is technically connected tissue, actually. So, the connected tissues are responsible or, are responsive to the GH sort of, and all kinds, all sorts, not just the adipose. But, when do we back to that? Because there's a good question. And then I'll, I'll throw this last thing out here. Just kind of, it was kind of the C-sha's question, but Chase Irons is like, what about 18 I use every day? Yeah, okay. Well, then, then you're max, then you're maxing out everything, right? But if you've got limited funds and limited GH, it does just form a a kinetic perspective. It makes sense to spread it out because the levels will come back down in terms of GH, and it's effects on fat loss. But what I, what I don't know is what a dose response would look like if you're in since you took, you know, a host of subjects in and gave them two I use, five I use, 10 I use, 15 I use, for, you know, you're not going to get much of an IGF response, just for the single dose. But if you try those different kind of ball-less related protocols, the same dose, or repair at a time, less frequently higher amounts versus more frequently lower amounts, what would happen in terms of IGF1. That was, that was the guess because a lot of people were finding that for whatever reason, they seemed to bulk better with the ballless doses, and maybe they just got more water retention, you know, and that helped to some degree, or that, or maybe just shifted, there could be a bunch of psychological placebo-based effects there. But that's the part that I don't know because you're not going to see researchers getting money to test those sorts of things with those super high doses of GH. So anyway, you had a couple of things, at least a few thoughts on your head, skip. But yeah, I always do. In fact, too many, so when you guys are able to speak longer, it allows my brain to filter through what's important and what is it. But, sorry, I appreciate that. What I'm wondering is this, and it's something that, again, this is one of those things that we can't really, there is no science yet, or we're not to the point where we can say matter, faculty, and a lot of these answers are black and white, I completely understand it. But for the sake conversation, if the hypothesis, well, first, we can't really separate, and correct me if I'm wrong. If you guys feel differently, correct me if I'm wrong. Because again, I'm thinking out loud here, and this is why I wanted to do this segment, to just be able to kind of bounce things off each other. How do we separate, or can we? Because I don't, I don't think we can. The impact of lipolices from GHUs, with the impact of gaining muscle or getting bigger, they're, if we're responsive to GH, and we have higher IGF levels that are a super-physiological. They're higher than we need, and we're a good responder for that reason, from a hormone standpoint, from an IGF standpoint, then I don't see the dosing. It's either effective with your dosing, or it's not effective with your dosing versus, and I think you gave a great answer for bolus versus more split dosing. Logically, that makes sense. I like things that are logical and sense- going, and it makes sense. But yeah, I could still see on the other side, the bolus that, what I couldn't latch on to was this. I, and I'll admit it. I'm just going to be completely transparent, and this always feeds the trolls, so they love me when I do this. But I didn't know that IGF levels don't fluctuate very. I didn't think that they radically fluctuated, but that they didn't really fluctuate. And the reason is, I'm trying to attach that bolus versus the split dos, with the fact that the IGF levels don't, it's something that we talked about, Scott, a while back, like years ago, intense muscle days, where changing the dose of GH to intermuscular versus subcure would spike IGF levels higher, but shorter. So my brain latched onto that, I'm like, well, there is that difference that difference, there can be those differences. But I think what my brain latched onto was, they aren't as dramatic, they're subtle, take the wheel. I mean, does that, is any of what I'm saying? Yeah, I can't, but one thing, I don't know, the pharmacokinetics, so the half life and the profile you get for growth hormone, it doesn't vary, it varies a little bit depending on the formulation, but it doesn't vary much whether it's IM or subcure, as far as I know, that's different for insulin, insulin's a different story, but I haven't also seen what happens if you inject into an active muscle, right, and then go train. So that probably, that would change it, I would guessing, but I haven't seen that study. When you talk about insulin, when you ask, uh, insulin that's the case, but with growth hormone, you, I think you mentioned comparing subcure versus IM on growth hormone, and have, and I don't think that the profile changes, the pharmacokinetic profile that how fast it comes up and how the capacity comes down in regards to GH. I don't want you to move away yet, I have one more thing on the stop because I don't know. Yeah, I don't know. Yeah, let me finish my thought, I've got, I've got some more on this, so the, since she thing is, is that we have to remember, sorry, I was looking something up here and get back to you guys, um, that, so growth hormone has, has roles during growth in development, um, where it's, it's stimulating people talking about growth and high-perplasia and all this kind of stuff. It's doing those sorts of things in developing muscle, whether it has a role in high-perplasia in the context of someone producing more muscle cells who is an adult human, that sort of thing can happen. It's been demonstrated in an animal models, whether someone's on super physiological growth hormone, if that would, if that would tend to cause that to happen, I don't know. But, but growth hormone for a growing individual, this is why they're giving a divorce, you don't have enough growth hormone. It has growth effects and some of those are mediated by IGF1, and that's why that's been studied in that context. But growth hormone for adult, I mean, you don't see bodybuilders say, oh my god, that guy's obviously a viewing growth hormone, he's nine feet tall, right? You don't, people aren't getting any, any, any taller, or their bones aren't growing, they're getting the cartilage effects. So we've got different roles of those hormones as adults, so to speak. So growth hormone, then, like, producing exercise, I remember there was one, I don't say who it is, but someone was claiming, I don't need any food after your exercise, so you don't miss out on that growth hormone spike that you get, right? Because you can go high-pulgalicemia, see me, that'll cause a growth hormone spike, you go to sleep, that'll cause a growth hormone spike, blah, blah, blah. So the IGF1, what we're kind of doing with this, when you're taking someone, this is why I, this is why I had that suspicion that the bolus doses might be better for producing IGF1 is because growth hormone usually doesn't get very high, but if we get through some threshold for growth hormone, and you're going to more like to get that with prolonged elevation that comes from an injection, that might be more something that's beyond that threshold for triggering more IGF1 production in the liver. And actually there's IGF1 production being produced locally in in front of the muscle cells and bone cells too, so that's the whole other story. I got an hour and a half, but that's what I was doing with that. Yeah, okay, so we can talk about all that. So, but we're using growth hormone as as bodybuilders and we're going above just a couple I use a day in a super physiological context. And I think the further we go super physiological, the more likely we're going to be able to then exploit that it's called the somata-medin hypothesis. I'd grow hormones stimulates IGF1 and an IGF1 would do most of the work of growth hormone. You know, that's not really true and it's not that direct, poor model access. There's growth hormone acting directly and growth hormone treating the IGF1 production locally and then the IGF1 is delivered doing its deal, so it's much more complicated, but we're kind of going outside the normal physiology of an adult human when you're putting in 10 I use the growth hormone today, for instance. And we have that mechanism to produce IGF1 that we that was important is definitely important during growth and development when we're in infant hood and youth, et cetera, et cetera, before we become fully fully formed, so to speak, as adults. And we've growth place of fusion all that kind of jazz. So the other thing with growth hormone, IGF1, it's kind of interesting like in the normal state, you can bring that down, you can. I thought you're going to ask, can we uncoplell IGF1 from growth hormone? And yeah, you can, you can have a situation where someone's dieted down, and this is what you're probably going to remember this, can, maybe you guys do Scott and Andrew. If you wanted to get a growth hormone prescription, you'd diet yourself down into a oblivion and your IGF1 will drop. And that is the surrogate for low GH and then you could get a GH prescription because obviously your IGF1 is low and you don't have to grow hormone, but your IGF1 will go low if your hypogonaddle or if your hypocoloric sort of speak if you're not eating a food if you're starving yourself. So you could have someone who's and this is a potential possibility when people do that 10 IU standardize, see if my growth hormone is or it's just not that not that test when they take their IGF1 levels before a diet and then eight weeks into a dasturly diet and they take their, I start taking their GH the same time it's like well the GH raises your IGF1, it would but you're dieting so hard that your IGF1 will go down and if those tends on how much gear that person's on, but there's so much variability there that the elevation of IGF1 from the growth hormone could be offset by the diet. Depending on their responsiveness to the origins in terms of IGF1 and that's kind of a black box too. Yeah and that would have a pretty dramatic though right. I mean from a from a caloric standpoint to really off I don't think I don't get in correct me if you disagree or if I'm wrong but if someone is really caloricly restricted for a while then then that would probably impact or or my offset someone taking let's say this there's an as an example and I understand that this there's a ton of variables here but just to kind of put a situation with my question here. You know say we have someone who's at four I U of GH and they're coming back with pretty normal IGF levels like to the point where an Andrea knows where we're going with this to the point where we're going my wonder if this is real this probably not good GH and and you know I would think the same thing yet the GH serum gets tested after say 10 I use or a bottle and it comes out that it's good. So the diet though that would that it would take or the caloric intake caloric intake versus you know output obviously would would matter too but it can't really it would take a lot for the diet to offset that so then you get into the people who are essentially personally I just I'll just say this I know personally that with with no exogenous androgens and no exogenous GH I can come I've come below normal IGF one range on a block but how radical is that diet like are you I was like I was like 7% probably 7% or 8% okay I was just I was just holding that while I wasn't I was I took a couple of your break when I was in in acupuncture school okay now that was without like you know yeah that was not no GH so I just just being dieted down and being in a dieted I felt okay wasn't like oh my god I'm thinking about his eating and I was okay holding that but I was below you can diet yourself below normal range yeah that I can't but then if you put growth hormone and or even if you're on TRT and not a big cycle to end up with those average very middle of the road IGF levels then it becomes a question of the GH but then the GH comes back that it tests well from a serum standpoint so then we have what is essentially what we want to call someone who doesn't respond very well but here which leads me into my next question is it possible that well or maybe it is possible and I'm sitting over here asking it the wrong way but it's a possible that that the the benefits that we get from growth hormone the the myriad of benefits is not only related to IGF levels or IGF production itself is there anything outside of the IGF level that is beneficial from the growth hormone like the direct direct actions of growth hormone sure oh yeah okay that's right and that's what I think yeah so water what are those I mean clearly this is probably a giant arena for you but if you just had to throw a few things out like what are those benefits and kind of encapsulate that or or tie it up in a you know smaller yeah instead of the arena yeah I mean it's interesting they're like the growth hormone studies with humans don't show and effect on muscle growth there's a rat study that I pulled up where they had well that case they were they're deficient IGF one I take that back that was a different study but if you're deficient in growth hormone or you're just or you're doing high growth hormone levels doesn't seem help with muscle growth per se but it's it's going to it increases connect with tissue collagen protein production more so than what you see in myofibre their protein so it's going to help that's the thing you know we we so we're so focused on myofibre their protein and our protein needs meeting that needs but everything else is adapting alongside it so our tendons need to get stronger all the connected tissue in the belly of the muscle in the organ that is the muscle or bones need to get stronger growth hormone helps with all those things so it's going up with stability with the entire muscular skeletal system so that's beneficial I think personally my my big theory with why people tend to grow better at a lot of times with in terms of muscle mass with growth hormone is that it stays off the body fat gains that they would otherwise get that might slow them down just because I'm getting too fat or psychological age they don't want to or simply that they can eat more and have more antibiotic drive coming from the incoming food but at the same time have a better p-race of some more muscle mass relative to body fat and they can keep pushing that up so let's say they're okay and I adding their p-race it was like one third fat and two thirds muscle let's say it's half an hour that's not bad really pound a muscle or a pound a fat you can change it to two pounds muscle and one pound a fat which is dramatically different right now there's still gaining some body fat but what's happening when you grow when you put on 30 pounds and 20 of its muscle versus 30 pounds and 15 of it is muscle but 15 of its fat so 20 versus 10 and 15 versus 15 that's a that's a big difference and how you look and you're willing to keep going and it all and all that makes a huge difference so if you can if you could imagine imagine you had a supplement let's just take this sort of hypothetically for growth one of this that doesn't do jack idly for muscle mass per se it's not animal it can terms of muscle mass what whatsoever but it prevented all fat gain and it wasn't catabolic in some way and it grew hormones catabolic to fat but it's not only cathedolic to muscle tissue and you could just eat meat meat and you just couldn't get fat which is what kind of happens to some people when they when they are responders and they go on 15 I use a farm grade GH that just lets the sky's a limit man because you got nothing hold you back and then I think sometimes you get bigger and when guys put on more body fat they put on more water they can't train as hard you reach that sort of limitation when you get to Vizocaine have just gotten to sloppy I can't train the way I need to to try to push things so I have to come back down assuming the growth hormone is causing water retention contributing to that kind of an issue yeah if you got something that prevents the fat gain and and then gives you that fullness and roundness that comes with the water retention of growth hormone that's that's gold man that's a placebo like not it's like look at me I put this in in two weeks later like I've met a morphocise which is the story that you know for a thousand times post shit then you're ready to go like you want to go and then you line everything up a lot of us are like yeah I do everything perfect all the time but it makes it a hell of a lot more fun when you're seeing it you know when you're seeing this magical transformation so that's a life sort of thought that growth hormone is helpful to it's not hurting it's helping with the connected tissue the supportive structures the muscular skeletal system it's not hurting and muscle cell growth it may be having some impact on satellite cells as well because it does like I mentioned before it does induce local IGF one production which is one of the things that triggers the satellite cells into movement and those are necessary just for getting bigger muscle cells so I haven't seen I think the highest was I was like seven or eight I I use and that may have been an older men but there's so much variation too there's going to be there's responders and non-responders and pretty much every study so so it's helping everything else and it's getting for any of the fat and that's a that's a golden combination even if it's not tremendously in a ball like like testosterone would be or steroids would be let me ask you this let me can you define go ahead and because I've announced a lot of questions go because I think this one might be interesting in terms of growth factors because I remember reading studies about growth hormone exerting effects on mgf and other growth factors and having which which have a positive effect on my favorite protein accumulation I think there's like a study in 2003 that I read that was like kind of like the the big one and I was just trying to like scan through you probably like me I bookmarks of like thousands of studies and I be in an idiot I don't organize them very well one of them one of the you know labels just like gh right well that's not very specific because I got about 200 gh studies in there right but um but yeah can you speak on that and because I remember walking away being like okay so this is actually one of the direct ways that it does stimulate growth inadvertently I guess directly but inadvertently through mgf so when you're looking at those studies and for people who are listening I use end note to organize all my references I have like 12,000 or something like that in there helps helps really really nicely I got folders and folders and folders and you can move them from folders and reorganize your leasily but here's the here's I think sort of the issue that a lot of people have and they're looking at the studies if is if you're looking at growth hormone during development it's going to it's helpful with the development of muscles and muscle mass right so it's going to have a factors on those effects on those growth factors the question that is a little bit different is what impact is going to have on those growth factors in the context of resistance training as stiff turning on muscle growth hyperplasia hypertrophy so the animal the animal research is really kind of bizarre like I just mentioned there's a study where they did the labored ladder climbing with rodents so they have the climb up a ladder kind of like doing you know sort of lunges what they put a backpack on them they get pretty good muscle growth in the calf and these animals were like they had only like 20% of normal IGF1 it did make a difference it had no effect the most extreme animal model um aside from the hanging the quail studies where they hang the weight is the compensatory hypertrophy model which I talk about at nauseam home time on my podcast was got and that's where they study the calf and they'll take out like the solius or the take out the plantarus or the gastrogramus and they'll lead the rest of the muscles in one or two of the three um triceps or we some humans have a plantarus that's the that's the hidden calf muscle that if you don't talk about it's between the solius and the gastrocc some people have one some people have two let's see their bigger smaller anyway it's bigger and rats so they can do studies they'll take like let's say they take the solius and plantarus out and the have is the gastroph and the animal limp around for a while and then it walks normally and that thing will grow like crazy it'll grow to be 50 a hundred percent bigger than it was previously a compensates its compensatory hypertrophy and you're like okay shit that's pretty cool so then they've done studies so what's contributing that what's you know what is necessary what's driving that and they've done studies where they where they castrate the animals so there's no testosterone it doesn't make a difference it grows just the same and then they do studies where they they give the rodents stripped asodicin and it poisons the pancreas and they have no insulin right doesn't make a difference they grow the same and then they take out the thyroid hormone and doesn't make a difference they grow the same and they'll just take out the entire pituitary so they got they got no no um no testosterone they got no thyroid they got no growth hormone they got zilch and it grows the same so that points to the eye to the tension is the most important thing so it's hard to look at the animal studies and say ah yeah like you know we see the growth hormone does this in terms of these growth factors in terms of growing muscle and you've got these studies like where they remove IGF one they have a model where there's where factors are missing and you still get growth so there's so many redundancies it's hard to say what's actually necessary what I think kind of we're doing with body with human body builders is you've got all these switches all these levers you can press the turn on muscle growth right and they and they do help and then animal model when you move those things that's just a tremendous model of muscle growth that's the type of tension you know you can't get people to do no one's going to volunteer to you know they take my gastroivest help big my solely as grows um yeah and I can do that shit but if you just have all these switches and you turn if you turn them all on you turn on growth hormone you turn off i turn on IGF one bigger steep was on you guys talked about his IGF one experiment it was worked like crazy right so those things can be additive depending on the person and the thing is is that those are all pretty much like this is the crazy thing about engines really is that average males produce in like 10 milligrams just a stoner on a day right like true tr to you be like 100 milligrams a week so 70 milligrams just a stoner on in your 100 milligrams but just a stoner on sip and then maybe 200 gets you like roughly in range so you think if we think about the body working around these hormones if through that vital right in some homostatic fashion you go away above that you've got you know a little bit above that and body's going to try to re-regulate things and it does do that of course and if you go below that you try to re-regulate things but but the system for whatever reason can be hacked thank god because this is what we want to do as body builders and you get more when you go to 500 milligrams which is five times production the system is and meant to regulate around that it's like a loophole in the system that we're hacking and then when you go to from 500 milligrams to 1,000 milligrams you get even more and that's 10 times what the system would normally it be used to working with it's way outside physiological range so and then when you take growth hormone and you put it in 10 I use five times it's you're not what you're doing is we're hacking those systems so that's important in the normal physiological scenario of a natural person trying to make muscle gains isn't really as irrelevant because we're pushing the system so far outside of the normal physiological range and just making use the fact that those it doesn't have like you know some sort of way to block that excess stimulation because in most cases in animals that have like a tumor like that they would never reproduce you know evolution would have we did them out so you wouldn't have you know there wasn't like a tribe of giants with acrimagally who had diabetes and and all their issues because you know I don't know how they have fertility problems but they don't live very long at all so super elevations of growth hormone super elevations of IGF1 you're looking at probably cancer issues like all these all these things we're hacking as bodybuilders are things that that would never have evolved and they haven't because we regulate around much lower levels of all those hormones that we're exploiting now so anyway answer questions it's kind of hard to know yeah definitely growth hormone turns on growth factor production IGF1 MGMF those sorts of things I have a figure in that that talked that it for John site a few months back now and you would think yeah it does this that and the other but then when you test it you know at the smaller amounts you don't see this magnificent effect and some people use growth hormone at least on muscle growth so that's why I think growth hormone is helping more with fat keeping the state in the fat off and allowing people to push the other levers push the food push the training and not get fat and that's that's definitely win so that was a long dive did I answer your question kind of Andrew who's getting it? Skip did you have a did you have another topic I know you had kind of a few of them lined up yeah I had a well like I said the questions turn into topics yeah yeah hey what's up guys I have a lot of people who reach out to man a regular basis who are trying to more effectively reach their goals one of the biggest mistakes I see people make is that they're not getting enough protein and there's only so much chicken breast we can eat through the day but we can easily add a high quality protein supplement to boost those numbers uh training nutrition has just about every protein powder you can think of from high quality weight isolate if you don't tolerate lactose then you can use their beef isolate or you can use their pea protein isolate if you don't eat animal products I literally have everything you think of I believe in them for like a decade before they advertised with us and they they never went out of their way to say like hey we want to promote our stuff through you I literally asked them because it's a company that I believe in and at the end of the day I want to see you guys reach your goals as effectively as possible so if you use our code thank you Trinitrition you'll get some savings you'll help to support our programming and you'll get some high quality products to more effectively reach your goals faster you know I had a head one and and this wasn't even specifically for Scott but I like the concept of this because it's something that I do my best thinking when I'm driving or taking a shit I don't know how you guys work but that's when my brain processes things the best it's something that came out to me it's funny because a question it's typically triggered by something that a client will ask me right so we were had just been talking about or arguing if you will about fast the topic was like fast twitch and slow twitch muscle some kind of switching gears a little bit and going from you know gear GH everything to training component but it was something that I just just occurred to me and I thought oh oh so you fast twitch and slow twitch muscle fibers I think we can all agree on that not really good yeah well and this made give you this made you a segue for you where you go oh that's what okay so fast so twitch muscle fibers it's kind of an accepted arguably antiquated way to look at it but I started thinking you know the different ways to train different you know the more explosive for fast twitch and you know the longer duration we've made the analogy of you know the marathon runner versus the spinner but how do you explain and how does that hold up when the vast majority of growth is from the negative portion of a wrap so the fast twitch in my brain the fast twitch slow twitch argument is essentially concentric it's essentially concentric the positive portion so if all that growth is in the negative I say all of it but the vast majority of it then how does that even meld or how does that how does that relate to fast and slow twitch muscle fibers it's just a while I'm driving or I thought that I had that I kind of came together and really couldn't I'm like I don't know if I can like how do I answer this how does this come together so the the fast twitch slow twitch that's that's the people still use that term it's just it's really fine no and when you can't do this in humans but people aren't really measuring twitch velocity that's sort of thing and people so much you guys still hear me yeah yeah okay good my computer is kind of freezing a bit over here so you've got new different ways you can type the fibers people use type one type twos and then the two the twos are broken on the two ways and two x's and that's based on mys and you can you can type them in various other ways too so what basically rules the roots there in terms of when those get used is this hennaman size principle so for lighter loads easier things should use the type ones first and fibers are located in motor units so in like your eyeball you might have like eight fibers per neuron so neuron and the fibers intervases a motor unit so because you've got to be able to move your eyes slowly to be a bit so you don't need a whole bunch of fibers and liking your quad it might be hundreds and hundreds of fibers connected to a particular neuron so when you start off a set let's say it's a relatively light load you're going to probably use a lot of type one motor units so all the fibers of motor unit are the same fiber type there's a neurotrophic effects of the nerve really kind of dictates what fiber the fiber type is those guys are always they have the same work history they all do the same thing when the nerve sends the thing to the all go the ones it's all the one principle so you start off your set and and we're just talk about throughout the set we'll break up in the concentric at x-centric and you're going to use type ones and some type two a some slow or threshold to see other way to to cataract the lower threshold motor units and higher threshold motor units so as things get more difficult as as the set ensues and the key increases your nervous system will do a few things it'll start turning off some of those motor units and turning on other ones and it'll go to the higher thresholds which will tend to be more so tight to's and eventually the type two x is which is the highest threshold or associate the highest or some motor units but it's going to rotate through all though so like explain this is like imagine like this side of the room we got four clusters of people you're the type ones and this sides the type two's and we start off when we use and you know a lot of the type ones you guys are all going and then things get hard I get call call some type two is in but then the type what some type ones will turn off and rest for a second the type two's will take up the load so there's this magical rotation amongst them all and the nervous system was also changing the the firing rate as the muscle faties let's call this muscle wisdom thing so it's not overly stimulating at a higher frequency the necessary so you don't get the nerve to fatigue unnecessarily and then you've got concentric x-centric and this is this is the interesting thing so when you do your concentric you need to use more fibers more motor units because you can want you produce less force on a concentric than an eccentric so you lift up a starter use more motor units and then when you come back down it's easier you have to if you have to use less motor units because the force that you get for motor unit is higher so if you left the same motor units on you lift up it would just stay there you have to turn some of them off in order to lower the weight but the force that's inherently produced in those motor units per say is higher so this is why and you said most of the I kind of liked it be honest I'm big on the idea of x-centrics being important when you compare there's a meta analysis comparing various studies where you can do concentric only training versus eccentric only training you see that x-centrics tend to be a little bit better in terms of producing muscle growth and the idea behind that would be is they produce more force so the question that the is kind of the quivocal some study say this some studies say that in the research is we've got pretty clear this venom and size principle on concentric so isometric contractions if you just hold you get the rotation and look at harder the higher threshold motor units come in you start calling in more and then finally if you're able to go pretty hard your trained person you might be able to activate all the motor units that are there you know at the very end of a maximal effort isometric contraction but on the x-centrics that same orderly process that same orderly progression from low threshold to high threshold may not quite be exactly the same so when you lower you're going to act you're going to have to turn off some of the type ones and some of the type 2s and it's hard to know which ones I have the studies are mostly like with hand muscles in this short of shit right thumb muscles they can isolate a single motor you're up neuron and see I haven't seen any studies that that that occurred to me least right now to know whether there's because of what actually because they're kind of mix whether there's preferential type 2s used on the x-centrics some suggest that and then some suggest that there isn't preferential type 2s or type 1s so the x-centrics are going to be when you do like say it's a max so I can do a max effort concentric you like just barely get it up and then you can do a negative with that thing you know and if someone lifted it all the way up for you you could probably do four or five negatives on most exercises if you were willing enable they can take individuals and just do x-centrics like on a knee extension with machine that will do that and do 20 max effort x-centrics all that you can possibly give and show like 10 percent fatigue you would never see that in gym you'd have to have someone who's going to lift the weight for you every time yeah when we could do muscle-sourna studies we take like a one-ret max and do eight sets of 10 x-centrics only but if the max load they can lift but you can lower the hell out of that thing yeah so because the energetic cost is so little for those x-centrics so the thing that kind of and this is my idea that has been kind of mentioned in the and the I think this totally fox up our interpretation of research in a very generalized way is that let's say like you kind of suggested can that x-centrics are better their better stimulus for muscle growth right which would make sense if you just did x-centrics you compare x-centrics to concentrics in many studies that put you on a machine where you just do the x-centrics are you just do concentrics and they try to quate these in certain ways it's hard to do it right because it's so easy if you did the same load on the x-centrics it's a breeze do three sets of 10 with 70% of your 100 max like you're going to get pretty fatigued after a few sets of that you do that you could do it all fucking day on the x-centrics yeah so it's hard to say but um like there's a study good study that my advisor did is they compared to if you can remember this they compared five sets of 10 leg leg press twice a week versus concentric only versus five sets of 10 concentric x-centrics or regular reps twice a week versus 10 sets of 10 concentric only and what they found was they got the best muscle growth in the type one in type two fibers when they did the normal reps when they included x-centrics and even when they doubled the concentric they weren't able to um make up for the growth that didn't occur when they left the x-centrics out so but here's the thing the devils in the dose right so x-centrics are more potent and you might have some situations where someone does let's say you do a shitload x hey more is better right so if you do too much of that shit you get really really sore and you may not you may exceed your recovery abilities so in some of those studies and and it's gotten I've talked this on my podcast you see you see stuff like people doing some people doing better from 15 sets of weeks versus nine sets of weeks or six sets of weeks and then some people doing better with nine sets a week versus 15 sets of weeks so for some of those people nine sets of week wasn't enough 15 sets was better for other people's other way around no the same thing could be with x-centrics let's just do a bunch of x-centrics well if you do nine sets of x-centrics that might be too much but for other people because they can recover from it that might be better it's a stronger stimulus but that doesn't mean it's a it's only a better stimulus if you do the right amount of it too many sets and then you just overdid it and then you're just and it's just being stupid right so so yeah that's the the type one and type two's there are some studies suggesting that higher reps will kind of preferentially develop the type ones you do see there's some studies suggesting the type two's do get hit more so on the x-centrics but we're doing concentric and x-centrics for normal reps in the gym so you're kind of getting both and you're not probably especially for training hard you're not probably preferentially just you're not just hitting the type two's for instance on the x-centrics it's both fiber types more than likely but that might vary by muscle group and and also the how fast you bring things down how well you control the x-centrics yeah um yeah like there's a meta-analysis too with like rep tempo and um when you do these studies there's so much variability it's like there might be an effect for a given individual but you can't make it out because everyone varies so much um so but I think you know we can talk about rep tempo and controlling the x-centric I think it makes sense because you get you get so much I'll leave it at this you get so much bang for your buck you could do x-centrics but then you don't increase fatigue during a set very much at all like I said you could do 20 of those and hardly incur any fatigue to x-centrics only which you get in the fibers that are active the tension is much higher and if you've if you believe the tension is important for muscle growth I think so then the x-centrics are definitely a winner so don't neglect them you know you in fact you know sometimes I feel what that like when I get to the end of a set and then I'll leave it this sometimes I will go a little bit even slower on the x-centric just to make sure I don't injure myself but I feel like if I try to get rep to fast because the concentric some more energy at the expense of all get fewer reps I almost rest on the x-centric to some degree so anyway those are some that's a ramble and you're not on the head what where these participants average gymgoers or advanced body builders who had greater potential for mind muscle connection and keeping tension in the muscle etc I feel that there would be that would be a variable in bodybuilding versus an average person which makes sense you know I know that my ability to control a negative is completely different now than it was even 10 years ago you know yeah in the studies like the i-soconetic studies they said they said the machine up to only go to certain speed so you push you know and then with the leg press I know Dudley he was you know he's my mentor it's all on a tempo too they'll use like a metronome so like you just can't drop it down like you have to you have to bring it down on tempo so they control the right yeah super important right it's a totally different animal if you push up real fast and then just let it drop down and rest for two seconds at the bottom versus the guy that does a three-sensic and second yeah totally different grip yeah so that's where I think it matters you know you can do a free fall and have a very little activation so you get to the bottom then you have a stretch shortening cycle and there's there's some thoughts there I mean if people talk about stretch media and hypertrophy there's also the possibilities like hey you know if you have good range of motion and you're someone if you do have some control oh and maybe you do a little bit of bouncy bounce at the bottom and so you have a high you'll get a stretch reflex there you'll have high tensions during partial eccentric that when in the length of the position if that's more potent which would probably as you can get more damage muscle damage during exercises or eccentric especially in the length of position that little bit of a stretchy stretch which some people try to avoid that could be more potent but the mind muscle connection does matter if you're just like just like doing a soup like the guys you know two guys bounce the high-sensic guys in the bottom and see us a while they're literally the ribcages or you're using this a trampoline yeah it's like what the fuck man here just trying to break your sternum yeah if you're doing that sort of thing no but I always you know I think that there are people like Ronnie Coleman was the one I when I watch him train call go he's so sloppy it's like yeah but he's catching of the muscle he was just he was leveraging the elasticity of the muscle in the stretch shortening cycle but in a somewhat controlled fashion and despite how he kind of ended up like people talk about how crappy his his T-bar rolling was in the corner but he was doing something right maybe not exercise but he had some sort of a mind muscle connection because back certainly certainly seem to grow yeah and the genetics are there too so that's the other other confounding factored but you know we saw that picture that video of honey all right yeah was it was it was it hotty remember that it's gotty yeah I remember that doing those T-bar rows and it's like holy crap man I feel like I might I might hit my traps with that at best you know yeah and he has no reason to change it because clearly it's working I'm right that's the thing if I were him I would continue to do what I'm doing too it's just that it's not applicable for the vast majority of the rest of us because it just it's it's you just look at you look at that and you're like that's a greaseless that just does not yeah it should not he should not even video that put that out but then you see his back and it's like yeah yeah exactly you know in Jay Cutler I mean I'm not you know I want to start picking people apart I'm we're talking about top body builders you know the best body builders on the planet but there is an argument there really and this is another rabbit hole you know we don't have time for but you have to we sometimes we really do have to step back and there's efficient training and there's good mechanics and everything else and based on injury prevention and safety and and I just really do think that there is a genetically gifted part of this this sport or our society that I don't want to say can do whatever they want but they're they're they're just not put together like the rest of us they're you know it's of cow rippkins of body building they can just go and go and go and they're made of rubber and they don't have the injuries it's it's I mean to Jay what were Jay's what were Jay's injuries did he have any major by some I know it was part of the sense that he didn't buy some of the hands level that he had what was it by some that was it yeah yeah yeah okay what's that it worked it looks so good that he asked the surgeon if he could purposely cut the other one form because it's actually funny because I had a buddy and I told you guys this because we talked about it last episode about how skip has had several clients who went bowling in partially toward the vice of it all right and one of my good buddies like message me the other day and he was like hey when you tore your your your bicep which was several years ago doing a bicep curl and when I said tear I'm not talking about tearing the tendon I'm talking about tearing the muscle from the tendons the tendons completely intact I think that's kind of what the tears that that your clients probably had skip similar I would imagine and it's also the time same kind of tear that my buddy sky had and I was given them all the rundowns and I'm like you know once it's healed go do a front double and tell me that that bicep doesn't look better because it just creates a little divot in the where the where the muscle attaches at the elbow and it it makes your peak look just a little bit better yeah yeah you know so as far as like being sloppy if someone could maintain this is like I've said this time of time again so we're weaker on that let's say you want to train heavy we can be here on the concentric we're struggling at eccentric let's say you've got someone who can control the eccentric being throwing some body English in there makes sense if we know about the force velocity curve of skeletal muscle that's weaker on the concentric than the eccentric so so maintain activation of the active muscle the train muscle the targeted muscle used the accessory muscles to help on the way up to be a little bit sloppy this is this is like a skill right this is an athletic skill I think and then control the eccentric because you're stronger so you can control a heavier load than you could probably lift with the same kind of control so to speak because you're depending on the speed for 2030 percent stronger on an eccentric than on a count concentric so nothing I'm saying everyone should go out and just train like an asshole just try throwing it at all over the place but there's something to say and there was a line of life fitness at a line of machines that would add 20 percent to the eccentric I loved them it was a electrically driven set of machines okay that's really that's a way that that would that would increase the activation on those eccentric without substantially increasing fatigue because you're simply stronger that's that's an ideal way if we could if we could set up you know the ultimate space age and this is this is why that actually the study I mentioned from from that my my advisor Dudley was involved with that was for NASA they were looking at what's necessary to maintain muscle in space so this is like space age training would would stimulate the muscle the reps we set up so that they're easier on the concentric and harder on the eccentric and the elect I got one out in my barn right now it's electronically dipped division driven device magnetic driven device and you that's one of the modes eccentric you set the eccentric force and it gives you like 20 percent less on the concentric and that mean theoretically that that would be I'd like to see people start doing studies with those things because you got to find the right dose so that's some each of those reps these those sets are more potent so if you compare 10 with 10 10 of the overloaded eccentric's might be more but I think that's what I think that's there's that's one one what reason why sloppy reps make sense to me as long as they're not you know two risky in terms of injury yeah and and the other thing you know that I think not for everybody there's plenty of examples of guys who treat really hard with like just laser like focus but when you just go in there and you're just ready to rip roar and rip that shit and you're just you're just there's nothing going to stop you you're a fucking force or nature and that way it's going to move no matter fucking what you get after it and that mindset is one that sometimes is okay to get a little bit sloppy with things here and there now and again and on the other side of the coin it's like well all my reps need to be perfect and you know if the right pinky twist is Dante might have said and that kind of stuff and that doesn't lend itself well to Jamaican progress I think to be over the analytical especially when I think and Scott I'm going to do another podcast on progressive overload we talk about that I've been thinking a bit online another one someone invited me on that topic but that's the forget that's the most scientific principle there is yeah that's it every single study they do progressive overload we're regardless of what they're testing content and versus eccentric you know stretch position rep tempo this exercise versus that progressive overload is the underlying principle it's always there and how many people do you see bothfully talking and looking at showing their log books on Instagram I haven't seen a log book on Instagram I don't think James Hollings had was selling something for a while and it was probably total flop right as we will let you know I'm shit we have a log book available from Think Big if you go to the merchandise page oh okay yeah yeah so you know anyway that's that's that's that's my thought on like being sloppy but but you gotta have the mind most of the connection I mean I don't want to pick on them but like if you look if you got you guys know who Sam Sue Lick is now for sure he was yeah yeah can you tell us who he is yeah I'm totally kidding we don't know yeah yeah like I always is in a respectful way like like we're grown adult males and we don't we don't thrive on this younger youtube crowd maybe like we would have if we were in that age group so we knew it and we were talking very respectfully and we're like hey you know we totally get what he's doing like if it's working we change it and then a lot of the comments were like oh you guys pretend like you don't know who the biggest fitness superstar in the world is and we mentioned that we knew of him but we don't watch every new drop video that comes out you know right yeah so like the way he does squats is bad ass feet close together he doesn't do him wide out and this sort of like plats does but he goes all the way down he's strong his shit full range of motion very quad dominant but there a lot lot of exercise he does and this is just this is just an intuitive thing from trying to have him train for you know a couple weeks something like that now over the last four decades he's just like oh he's missing so much shit he's missing stuff there the range of he's missing some important things he's got the right mindset he's trying to move heavy shit around and some exercise he's dead on whereas you look at like I train with Dave Henry like Dave just that was one thing about during with Dave it's like he's just fucking like it was just like this piston like precision that it's precision to each of his repetitions and you could tell he's hitting the target muscle each time and he was just naturally strong so he didn't have like an ego that you know so I got to use more weight because he's already using more weight than anyone else in the gym most of every occasion so so some people you can see and then you look at look at Ronnie like I mentioned before and even though he was kind of sloppy he looked like to me I was had the sensey I'd have a look at my muscle connection oh agree yeah even unlike some of his advice it curls and they you know they looked really kind of crap but they looked like they're he's not that he really need more biceps but that was maybe his worst one but I see some on Sam so you you can't pick that out that when I'm talking about here throwing some body English and there's a way to do that where you maintain the mind most of the connection and then there's a way to just kind of train sloppy that just sloppy training and you're missing the target muscle and you're you're leaving range of motion you know in the tank where it could be had which could probably help with the gross stimulus yeah so I don't think there's any way to really explain that to you it's almost one of those things the difference is just kind of kind of an experience you could you could get all fancy with EMGs and you could digitize it biomechanically and you could probably see it you could you could figure out what the differences are for sure by filming somebody and the engine you could look at the activation patterns of the muscle we made it out of the screen but I guess what I'm saying is the average person no and I think that's where you this type of conversation and I think it's a good conversation isn't terribly beneficial for the new be only because they're not going to understand what is good and what isn't from a from a mechanic standpoint of being loose it just almost maybe I'm just I'm not doing it very successfully but you're not just putting myself in that newbie position going oh well you say and I can be loosened if it feels good it's just not that simple it's almost like a coordinated or coordination issue of knowing when that momentum is beneficial and not going to injure you because if you get sloppy at the wrong day you use a bicep crow isn't example if you start to get sloppy at the wrong time that will open you up to a different or potentially to injury versus when you get sloppy that it can help you when you have that mind muscle connection to keep that set going and not being a vulnerable position I guess the best way to explain is this you can drop dumbbells the wrong way or you can drop dumbbells the right way but it's not necessarily wrong to drop dumbbells if you know how to drop them so they don't work in breaking they go where they're supposed to go yeah you know it's got said four decades of experience that's where you know it it just takes time it takes time let me ask you guys this how long do you think it takes on average to get that good mind muscle connection to really start to appreciate the what the topic we're talking about right here so variable like because I know some people that train for six months and they just get it yeah and then most people and actually I'll even go a step further I think it's intra exercise variability like some people just have better coordination and planer movements some people have better coordination and other what do you call it what's the other plane that's escape in my brain you get you guys you know what I'm saying like absolutely my really good in like a squat hacksquat dead lives like like just that kind of coordinated movement whereas things coming from their arms and their chest like they've just not they don't have that coordination that neuro muscular coordination so that's the first step before they even get the rep speed the the body English that we're talking about added in I just think it's one of those things where you know it looks good when you see it because then you just go like oh that guys knows what he's doing and then you know when it doesn't load and you're like man if that guy would clean his reps up a little bit he'd be getting more out of his efforts that comes just a bunch of people train for a long time who have no concept they might even think they do and you can just look and go you just don't you to or even where that mine muscle connection is there for the more obvious less complex muscles but I still stand on this now stand on this probably till I go in the ground the vast majority of people do not understand the make proper mechanics of training back because it's such a complicated musculature that even people who have been around a long time and have good physiques do not understand and do not train their back correctly in I'd say I mean it's it's an arbitrary number to make my point but 70% of the people in most gems just aren't if not more than that I would say no and they don't understand and I understand everybody's doing their one arm lap pull and everything else that's actually in my opinion a step in the right direction because as annoying as that was to see every kid I mean I'm sounding like the guys who are against Sam now or that Sam wannabes but it was it was irritating to go in it because selfishly because they're going to be on that machine for 20 minutes doing these ridiculous things on our movement exactly and I'm leading to use that piece so it's selfish in that sense but it did it did get a lot of those people and especially that that younger generation or the new beatite trainer to really focus and think more complex or think about the complexities of the musculature of the back and try to hone in on those specific places you were in the fore just like wow do a lap pull do a chin you know do a row as shitty as possible good with me here what gets missed there sometimes then and this was um Ben Pocos he was one of the first people kind of usher that idea into the industry and I talked about on the phone one time and his plan was like that stage one for people is to to learn mind muscle connection with the sort isolation movements etc etc and once they've got that down for a couple a couple years or so then really start moving towards progressive overload with a good mind muscle connection he said but all that early stuff it just took off so well that he just never left he never really went to phase two because he was just doing so well financially business wise that he never really transitioned to that but the thing I was going to say because ten years saying like a lot of people won't kind of get what we're saying is like one thing I've done when I teach seminars when I work with people is like you know say it's a bicep curl and I do this you can also do this when just for your training for your if you're doing progressive overload is you do a set of perfect form right and where like the say it's the bicep bicep curl in your biceps okay there's nothing left there and as long as you're safe with this right then say now I'm going to try to throw a little bit of body English in and practice that and now you've got you've got the biofeedback coming from the muscle that you've just destroyed and you're trying your staying just as focused as you were on those previous reps during these extra body English reps and then they get a feel for what that can be and you can do that you could do that with like like a dumbbell row wouldn't be a bad one if they're well supported during perfect form and then see what happens when they put a little bit of twist into it but only after they've really fatigued and their reps they would write down their logbook would be 12 and then and then then they add three cheat reps so to speak I got an exercise that I came up with a couple that I kept keep on reading I posted a video on Instagram it's a row stop dead for back and I yeah and we asked gotten those these he's done these and I they're beautiful man they're beautiful awesome and all it is is instead of it does not it's a playoff dead stop row but she bend over and you could use the barbell or a machine you could even do it with dumbbells I guess but usually it works better with the bar and you do a row up to the row you stop you hold the bar there and then you stand upright as if you're doing a dead lip but you got the bar held right right at your belt line and then you go back down and then you reverse the movement so you're holding that bar pushed up against right at your own billiards so and then you stand up with it so you row stop you dead lifted up then you reverse it and then row back down they're fucking brutal they're awesome and once you it's probably really safe way to do a deadlift too like if you're someone that can't do traditional deadlift because the bar is as close to your core to your center of gravity as it's ever going to be when it's tucked in your own billiards that that's the first thing I thought of and then like then would you go and do rows or anything else is like wow it does this don't hit my lats for shit compared to this one I got the video I got the video oh cool oh we look at it now yeah so I'm in the I'm behind there I'm behind look at he's got no weight on there right yeah we were smoked the end of the workout yep I thought that was when you guys first started yeah I was smoking it my way on these my lower bag was screaming at me doing these yeah I can see you won't eat a lot of things and I would rather see you can't even hold the bar up there see with so petite oh wait that's Scott at first I I I I I my oh shit that's God it's the way I get a beard oh yeah yeah wait for the yeah yeah I don't recognize them without the beard now that's funny man because you knew me for years without it but I I know yeah we got to wrap this thing yeah we got to wrap this thing up though Scott we appreciate you coming to hang out with us man we should have you back more often that's cool we'd love to all right guys go to uh b y o b b coach dot com you can get Scott's book there also Amazon get the hard cover and of course go to buddyberry dot com to reach out to Andrew for coaching team skip dot com reach out to skip make naly diets at gmail dot com you can hit me up for coaching and of course true nutrition dot com use our code think supplement source dot c a and thank you to all of our patreon as you guys are freaking awesome and to everybody in the live stream we're gonna record another episode so all right we appreciate you guys thank you Scott you

And is an insulin resistant factor there? And I think in those scenarios is much more of a potential problem where you've got a sustained level for prolonged periods of time. But I think when you're in the two I use sort of range, I mean, I don't know people that have run two I use. And even daily or every other day or those sort of combinations for years. What's up guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I'm Scott McNeilly and if you're tuning into us for the first time, Dave is an educator for PEDs and steroids to the place in the military in the UK. Plus he's the owner of eval blood analysis. You can get your lab work done by Dave in the UK. You're also an expert witness. I want to let everybody know this stuff every time now. In case they're just tuning in for the first time and they're like, who are these people that are talking about gear? All of our programming is brought to you by 2d nutrition.com. Use our code think for additional savings. We are brought to you by Strom Sports Nutrition for those of you in the UK. That's a great health and performance stacks over there. And we're brought to you by SupplementSource.ca for our Canadians. Dave, guys, Dave is in a different location today. I'll give you a minute to guess. I'll give you a minute to guess where Dave is. You what? Secret location. Dave is in a new secret location. If you're watching live feel free to comment. We've got a couple topics. Number one is what's an minimum effective dose of growth or a moon. We also got a bunch of actually questions about back training. So we're going to go and adapt about that. But before we do, let's lead with like, you know, everybody wants to hear about the gear stuff. So minimum effective dose of growth. This was a question that was over at our Facebook group for Think Big Body Building Media. What says you David Crossland? Two. Two. Two. What are what is one? Expecting to get out of two units. So this is the big debate, isn't it? GA, muscular growth, GA 12, the NGA track loss. I personally think that there's two are you. Is going to result. In fact, I've even seen people get something out of one. But two are you. Is going to result in, in proucily. It's likely in prouvi recovery. An amyled composition change if everything else is on point. It's not going to work against shit, diet and stuff like that. But if you are pretty much on point in consistent with everything, you will see a composition a composition change with as low as two are you. You're not going to see dramatic. You're not going to get a little bit of better fullness. But you're going to be pretty much. For the right, basically you want a good day for fullness rather than an exaggerated fullness. You shouldn't see any real war retention. Sleep should be slightly improved. The should be slightly better recovery. And it's just a general sort of in a better place. Yeah. I think if you go higher. Then you're going to start. And the thing is with females even to can start to develop things like couples on the one and joint pains and stuff. So with females I wouldn't be definitely pushing even lower and down as low as one. If you're looking at something in a way of rehab injury recovery, then I'd probably go two and two to two am to pm. I wouldn't really cap out much above four five as a single dose pm. I know there's some people that feel the higher doses are going to result in some muscular growth and that's probably believes in as well. But if you come by nine to higher growth for GH with high volume style training, it's a very volume-wise training, high rep count, high set count. That you will see some muscular growth. I've not seen anything to convince me of that. I didn't have any high doses. I didn't feel like anything particularly out of them. But yeah, I've opened to someone who's improving me wrong. The problem is you don't see growth as a standalone. It's always used with unavolect so you can never decide what's down to what. Yeah. That's kind of what other things I was going to try to get out too is you may have somebody tuning in who says, hey, you know, would this be a good option for a first cycle to use this two units of growth? That's what I can financially afford right now. With this makes sense, my answer to that personally would be you're cost a benefit. You're not going to, like you said, David, it's more of an icing on the cake thing. The effects you get are going to be super subtle. I would say it is kind of like as far as things to add supplements to bring into your plan, I would have it weighed on the list, you know what I mean? I mean, my first experience with GHS, the sweet spot I found was six I knew every other day, but it was generic. It wasn't far. Yeah. And I found that that was a very sweet spot that showed some good composition changes. But the main thing I got of it was a sense of wellbeing. It was a much better sense of just wellness, better sleep, improved sex drive and just the general, I feel good. I feel healthier, I feel good. Yeah. It wasn't running big cycles, you know, cycles were 1.2, 1.5 grams max, was sitting around 200. So it wasn't a small guy. And that was very much a very sweet spot for me at that time. But I think I would have got equal out of three or four everyday, as doing the higher dose every other day. I say, was it generic? So you can factor in, probably wasn't. That was effectively those as far as it would be. Yeah. But yeah, when I pushed high with the farmer, I didn't see anything stand out from it. But I mean, there was a bucket, well, all the things in there as well. Yeah, like going on at that time. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it was a shopping cart approach to drug use, definitely, at that point. So it would be hard to say, believe, quote was this amazing compound at 27,000, year of farmer growth of day, pulsing it in day and night, I would have expected to see something that I could actually be directly to that. Yeah. I mean, there wasn't anything. Chase Irons has been up there. He has been up in the higher double digits. And he's enjoyed being on it when I saw him back in October. He was big. He was much bigger than the previous time I had seen him like a year or so before that. There's a definite fullness. There's a definite, a huge, full sizing crease that comes with it without doubt. I think that's only niable. One of that is actual established tissue is where I start to get a bit of an argument that it, because I think that is that much. And like you say, when you compare it to something like gear, I mean, your cost to reward ratio is basically reversed. If you were saying that for every $10 I spent on gear, I got, if you want to put a point on it, I got a 30 point advantage. It'd be up as it were around. If you'd get a 10 point advantage, you'd get that. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, one of the specifics that we talk about is issues with insulin sensitivity. So, some people start seeing their blood sugar increase. And of course, we can correct that with insulin. But I, I feel like in the last few years, maybe the last five years, I have seen people, they, they seem to be, they seem to think that like you're instantly going to have blood sugar issues, you know, and let's go back to that two units. I personally, I don't know about you. I haven't personally seen issues with low dose growth hormone to units. I haven't seen blood sugar issues in myself or in people that I've worked with. I would go, I would go out as far as to say that, you know, in that dosing range, that's very common to what you would get prescribed through a rejuvenation clinic. And, and if it was that big of an issue, I would think that these clinics would automatically put you on insulin as well, you know what I mean? I've seen some mild changes in hate-fay, one-see, so some mild insulin resistance bill, but we are talking nothing that's real world impact in all nothing that's going to have any dramatic impact. So insulin resistance and diabetes, or tattoo diabetes, is part of the watch concern for people that use growth hormone because they don't have any natural production. So it is something that's mentioned in the literature around treatments for dwarfism and stuff like that that is something that they need to keep an eye on. Yeah, so, um, I mean, it's something that's being highlighted with the new little super long acting growth hormone stuff that's coming out. Is an insulin resistant factor there? And I think in those scenarios, it's much more of a potential problem where you've got to sustain the level for prolonged periods of time. Yeah. But I think when you're in the two I use sort of range, I mean, I don't know people that are running to I use either daily or every other day, or those sort of combinations for years. You're a fan. You're a fan of that every other day, aren't you? Or an infrequent? And is it because of the the blood trigger effects that you're playing with? Yeah, you just have problems. You just make to get you sad a little bit better if you're into a long, if you're committing if you're committed to GH, like 24 months, 36 months or even longer, which some life extension is a lot of people who you be into long term, GH views. Then I find that EOD protocol works so much better long term. And it just allows for some natural rigging in between what was popular for a while. And I don't see any reason for not to do it was GH day one, Secretary of State 2, GH, GH, GH, Oh, you're saying like a secret a god like GHRP6, CGC, that's what you would post yet my pronunciation shit. So you would post your natural in between the artificial. And that seems to have a very good effect as well. Okay, so I mean, the kind of it is let's say let's say you've got a you're doing a 20 week prep and growth hormone is part of that protocol and it's at two units. We'll say you have either enough to do two units every day or four units every other day. Okay. The benefit is if you're each time you take it, that growth hormone is only in there for what is it 12 hours, something like that, the active life of the actual growth hormone itself, you're getting that additional fat loss benefit from it. So I know a lot of guys who may use first use it first thing in the morning and do their fasting cardio, get on with their day and they just kind of start their day off that way. If you're using it every other day, you've cut that window in half after 20 weeks. It's only really been eight weeks that you had the growth in there, right? Yeah, I mean, I'm looking at every other day as a long term sustained protocol rather than if you're using GH record, I would definitely be looking at E-Day. Okay. Okay. But if I was pulling it in as a background support long term, then I would look at every other day. Okay. And the thing being too, like that's not going to have any negative effect on your IGF levels, right? So we have kind of a couple of things going on here. We have the direct effect of the growth itself. And then from there, the cascade of hormones that ends up creating IGF, your IGF is higher. And that supposedly would be where any type of like growth additional growth you get from GH would happen, right? Yeah. My argument is that when you look at medically looking IGF, one's supplementation, so you look at in-products and the use of in-products, the dosing and the duration of dosing and the frequency of dosing is so high. Yeah. I just do not feel that I can be replicated with GH. I mean in-products is ridiculous dosing. It goes up to 1.2mg per kilo twice a day. Which is huge in comparison to what you'd create as a cascade from GH. So I just don't see the carry-off there. I mean, I've seen lots of people in the past talk about running in crelegs and, oh yeah, I just run 50 micrograms a day or whatever. Apart from potentially a little bit of fullness, you're not getting the trigger any actual real world growth from that dosing. You know, it has to be so high and it's painful to run. The side effects create a lot of joint pain and a lot of muscular pain when you're running it at the doses required to stimulate, you're like, they direct muscular growth from my GF1. So in my opinion, and I'll blend out there to disagree with you, but in my opinion, the direct muscular benefits from GH are overplayed, but very useful for us to all very useful well-being tool. If you've got the budget long term, a couple of are you, the idea of every other day will improve the quality of your well-being without doubt. Yeah, okay, one last question on this topic, and we'll move on because like I said, we had some training stuff too, and some other listener questions, and hey, if you guys want to take part in the next show, then definitely comment below, we got some stuff off rumble, I've got some stuff off Patreon, thank you guys, everybody from Patreon for supporting our programming. But the last question I had is, so, where are we going to be if two units is going to be kind of like a pseudo replacement doses? You're going to be like, like, high high end, hot quote unquote optimizing, you know, put my hand up in air quotes there, we're optimizing at that level probably. What age group is going to benefit from that? Like, because if you're saying 23, you know, is it, are you still going to get what you're still going to get a great benefit from taking a low dose like that, or is it going to be more suited for like a guy that's in his 40s like, you know, or myself. Well, definitely you're going to see more benefit from an older age because obviously you have much lower natural levels of GH production. And one of the things with taking GH is you create the time in a when you want it in your system, which is not naturally going to be in line with what would happen naturally. True. And so, you know, you can put it where you want it, where you want it. I would say, too, probably getting a push from most people above what they're naturally producing. I think one for a male would be probably natural. I think since you're going to, you're going to be a little bit above. I can't. I'm usually, for argument say, let's look at testosterone as a example to try and make a comparison here. Unless, you know, or perender test in MOL and I'm going to speak in English, so you can just toss off at OK. 29 MOL took a range. It would be the equivalent of running tests at say 35. OK. But you're not hugely elevated, but you're you're topping it. I would be where I would be with within now it would reflect in that draw range. All right. All right. Well, listen, I think we covered enough of that. We had a topic here, and this is from Patreon, from Kyle. And he says, I'd love to hear about how Dave structured his back training. What types of movements would he use in a session and why? And he also added to Dave always has good nuggets on training when training comes up. Does he have any favorite bits of advice for back? I would say back he's probably one of the hardest body parts to try. There's old sayings like you always know what's going to train so I'd say it big legs and big back. Because they are the most demanding muscle groups. They are huge proportions of our muscularity and as a result, they require a huge amount of effort to train effectively. One of the issues I find with back is you can't see it when you're training. So it's very much a feel movement. Yeah. And it is because it's actually quite a complex group of muscles. There's a lot going on in there. It's not just like you've got up the tracks, but it's lower tracks. You've got to as my major, run boys, all the rest of it. And even read Delt's kicking in there. Spindler vectors as well. So it's not so much a singular muscle. There is sometimes problems with you stressing the wrong parts. Now naturally, most of us are going to have strength in our upper backs. And we're actually going to like strength in our laps because generally we don't engage the laps in modern day life. So it becomes a very dormant muscle. You really know the biggest. And it has the most potential for growth for size, but it's not what we default for in about movement. We would default to upper traps and shoulders. So you'll see a lot of people row high. Yep. And when they pull down, they'll tend to lean back. And it almost becomes a road to the chest when you physically look at the load in relationship to the torso. Now that's where a lot of people go wrong when we're back. They end up getting very strong across the upper back. And they don't actually get the last to kick in or engage. I think for a lot of people, they actually need to pull the way back and go very form focus to start with until they start in the field. They're lats and the back engage probably. And then the back is one of the muscle groups that I feel benefits from overloaded. But it has to be back to complete form. So, example. I've never been a deadlifter. I've never been one for deadlifts. I don't like deadlifts. I will use partial debts where you really just work the area of the range of motion. There's more back dominant. But I find deadlifts cross over so many body parts. It's not really a back exercise. There's a lot of posterior chain. There's a lot of core. Yeah. And so, I've pulled down our light rows. I find dumbbell rows. Okay, it's a movement. But most people tend to do far too much torso twisted. They do. You get a lot of hip in it. Yeah. And you're working your back. So you're torso should be moving the toe. It should just be your arm. When you look at the muscularity and the development of the back, basically what the back does is move. And leave it through a hinge. The hinge is the shoulder. The lever is the upper arm. And that should be all this movement. Nothing else needs to move. Unless you're working spinal directors. Or perhaps where you do have a double shoulder lift. So, a lot of things is first ground-like technique. And then do not be scared of going heavy. So, typical back workout for me. Back in the day. I'd start with better rows. Now, when I do better rows, and anyone that's watched me show them how to do better rows, you're first being a notice. I'm very bent over. Okay. I've done do the aces row. And most people do the aces row wrong anyway because they tend to end up being a upper back shrug movement rather than a row driving the elbows low and down. The what row? So, I am one and over. So, my lower back is almost parallel to the floor. But then I have an arch in my back. We should leave my chest. Yes. Just go on the back. Did what you said you don't do what row? Yes, row. Oh, okay. So, what it gates do, he was kind of a little bit more upright. It was very high, but what a lot of people get wrong with the aces row is with the aces row. You're much more upright, so you can handle more low because you don't point so much lower than your lower back. What you've got to do when you do the rows, you've got to drive your elbows back and down. Yeah, yeah. And what people do is drive their elbows back and up. And so, it becomes almost this shrugging row. Yep. And what it will be is I can down so you can gaze the last, but you're in a more upright position. So, you can carry more low. And when I start getting fatigued, I can't help it. You know, because the assisting mother, like you said, there's all sorts of parts of the back. So, those other areas for me, they want to kick in. They want to assist. And, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, But I'm going to say, though, is because I'm in that position more upright. Then it's easier for those other muscles to start helping, you know? So, I'd be quite bent over low about almost parallel to the ground, but I do have a decent arch. So, my chest is lifted high. Yeah. In all that movements, I personally feel that the chest needs to be high, the lower back needs to be arched. I'd start with just above. And I'd scrape those elbows past my sides and really engage and make sure my shoulders are dropped. I'm not whimpering as I come up with the, but I'm not doing this in the show. You know, it, my last shoulders were lower me, I was scraping through. Play, to play, to play, to play, to play, to play, to play, to play, to all of the four. No swing, no body movement, no upper back movement at all, rocks on it. Five, start to see a little bit of a dip. So, there's a little bit of a, one power through. But again, when I'm bringing that bar into my world waste, my chest is driving through. So, I'm always keeping my chest push through the movement. Yeah. Six plates. So, I'm going to start with the other side. This is a power lift. This is a, well, but once I'm in that contract position, I'm lowering on the strict form and control. And then I'm driving again. This is an overload at this point. So, at this point, I'm beyond the capability of what my lats can pull in form. But I'm making sure that a negative is loaded in really good form. And I've pulled back to say four plates, three and a half plates, and really tighten up. I'm just bang out, straight rep, after straight rep, after straight rep, after straight rep. And my whole focus is to generate as much discomfort in my back, particularly my lats as I can. Yeah. I then go on to pull down movement. And I do pull down as a little bit of a different to a lot of people. I make sure that my elbow stays underneath my hand throughout the whole movement. Now, what most people do, if I move to the side and get in the minute, is it pulled down, it pulled down, and then the elbow kicks back. Yes. Yeah. I have never heard it. It was mentioned that way before that you're at elbow stays under your hand. I do the same thing. I explain it differently, but that's a really good way of putting it. So, I'm aiming to pull my elbow into my side. That keeps the line engaged. I also make sure that a lot of people get too close to the machine and then lean back. I pull my ass back and almost lean into the machine. So, when the bar comes down, it's literally taking the skin off my nose and my chin. Okay. What I find is, too many people focus on trying to do what they think the movement is, instead of focusing on trying to work the muscle. So, people think I'm going to pull down the bar and eat it to a tissue chest. Doesn't matter where the fucking bar goes. The bar has got nothing to do with your back. It's where your elbow goes. Yeah. And what you're trying to do with your elbow is deep as you can, because that's what's actually contracting your back. I feel like you're bored of holding your back. I mean, I can feel in this position now. My blasts are fully contracted. My hands are nowhere near my chest height. You know, I've got three-four inch to go before that bar hits my chest. And I just physically can't do that and keep the contraction on my lap, because my lap doesn't go any further down. So, that would be the pull downs. Again, I would get to the point where there would be heavy. So, in my case, it would be 500. We didn't find a 500 pull down, Dave. It's a three-four pound stack with loads of 20s per hour. Oh, God. I feel sorry for whatever gyms you trained at then. So, in fact, I think it was more than three-four pound. What I used to have to do, I was strapped up and then I'd have to get two people, one on each end of the bar to pull it down, so I could get run under the bar, because I was just a little bit nervous about it. Don't give me wrong. That's on my super heavy workout, but that's where I get up to. Otherwise, it'd be around the four, and it would be four, 20. And then I'd finish with a low row, and with a low row, I'd make sure again I keep my chest up, so as I move forward, I'm actually lifting my chest as high as a can that will really stretch the lap. And then as I pull back, I don't like my back go pass 90 degrees. So, as I come back up from that stretch, I go to night, I go to night, I go to my back, and I usually do it some less time behind me, with that shin against my back, so I've got my limit point, and then I've just got up full, and as I get as I pull in, I lift the chest and push it through. So, I didn't hear you mention really in the other end. The key. Oh, God. That's for me, the key is to back training in a row, and the elbows must be tight into the side. Yeah. And in every movement, the chest was marinated, lifted, and particularly at the bottom of the movement, so as you're hitting the waist for the bar, or as you're pulling the lap pull, don't bar down, you don't allow your chest to drop, you actually raise up to me too. Yeah, you said you, so it sounds like you're not relying on a lot of machines for your back training. There's a lot of free weights. What is your mindset behind that? Because I'm with you, if you want to grow the most amount of muscle you can, I think that mastering machines is beneficial. Or excuse me, mastering free weights is beneficial. I have nothing against machines. The problem I find with a lot of machines is, you're trying to get something that has a hinge and a leave a point to a wide range of different size bodies. Okay. And it's very rarely optimal. Um, um, some of the things you'll fit in sweet as a note, and you'll really feel them. And if you want to make a with them crack on, but a barbell allows me to put the bar in the octoposition for my leave, and lend some my body length. I don't always have that with a machine. Um, so some of the, there's a compromise. And I know when I've used chest machines, I, I'm not even holding the handles. I'm holding the frame because that's the push point. That's best for my, the leaveers. Yeah. So, um, and that's it. It's not. Machines are great, particularly if you feel entire or you're a bit fucked off or, or you just haven't quite got the energy to be doing better. I've been a boroughs of demand. I mean, it's like doing a set squats doing better boroughs. Um, so I do use machines. The other thing I found with machines is the plate loaders limit the weight, because quite often I'm the start on the plate loaders and still not. I'll be off. Okay. So, um, I tend to go freeway because it allowed me to move. Well, it was a more difficult move and we should limit it the weight I could move. Yeah. I, I, I don't allow me to away. But became counterproductive in a lot of cases. I'll throw in though. I do think there is benefit to mastering free weights. Um, mindset that I have been taught is that when you're using a freeway, you not only have to in this case pole, but you're also having to stabilize the, the move too. You have to stabilize the weight. It's going to take a lot more effort to get that figured out, you know, and to be able to control the movement. I'll tell you what though. I had a lot of issues with the, the barbell row. My limiting factor being my lower back. And, um, I just, for me, a lot of bent over movements had been difficult. I found the dumbbell row to, to work really good for me. Limiting factor with dumbbell row is going to be how strong you get, you know, I mean, it gets harder and harder to find heavy enough dumbbells. Now, I've had 150 pound dumbbells here at, at my home gym. And, and, and, and I was able to work up to that. So, I could only imagine for a guy that had gotten even bigger than me and stronger than me. Um, that said though, dumbbell row, it was, was my go to, because being able to stabilize my low back allowed me to get a lot more out of it. Hmm. I mean, the thing is, you, I think you've got to give everything that, a lot of people give up on exercises, not because they can't do them, but because they're hard to do. Yeah. And my mental approach with training was I was always looking for things to make it harder. Yeah. Um, I was never looking for ways to make it easier. That's not to say, there isn't, I'm when I've done the go workout just because I caught. Yeah. I mean, in gym, it's when I've been on holidays, but for deliberately gone to a machine because I know I'm going to stack the thing beyond belief. Yeah. And I just wanted to show off. Um, and so it's, it's happened this being there, but for the vast majority of my training, I always looked for how do I make this harder, how do I make this more difficult for myself, and how do I make it more difficult for myself? And that ultimately rewarded me with the best growth. Yeah. Me, because that, usually men, I was working in a way that was, other bio-mechanical disadvantage to me, which men, my muscles are to work harder and therefore I got stronger. Yeah. Um, and when you focus on just moving load and the, you will get so far, and I've seen people develop quite very reasonable for these with just folks in a low, but they get to a point where there's no more load because the machine is stacked. Yeah. Or I'll get it in the bar. Or you get to a point where the loads are just playing dangerous. And then when I talked about that, he said he was like, it could super strong, barbell roar, and, and barbell roar was like his jam that was his move, but he never developed a back. You know, he is like, I got super strong. I was incredibly strong. He was probably stronger than most people in that movement, but then, you know, he competed in your realize, like, hey, my, my back development isn't, it doesn't match the strength that he had. And so then he went back to do what you're talking about, you know, is, is actually trying to figure out how to make an exercise harder. I'm with that 100%. I had to retool my back training. In fact, I just, I pulled this up recently. Let me see if I can grab it really quick. This was my six months, six months of progress here, left to the right was six months of time. This was a couple years ago now. You know, you know, you know, you know, I used way, way more at different points. Nothing was really serious about diet at the time. I made sure I got enough protein in. I got a car, but there we meal, but I wasn't like forcing food. The only big difference is I retooled my technique because I, you know, my big mistake day with that pull down. I was doing that exact same thing. I was getting my elbows were going out as I pulled down. Instead of I love the way you said that keeping your elbow under your hand. For me, I thought about the pull over. I thought about the way a pull over moves. And if I'm doing a dumbbell pull over, my hands overhead, the elbows are tracking in front of me. And that's that was the cue that worked for me. Elbows are tracking in front of me versus tracking out. And I was able to move that load down into the lat. And I'll even call it man, the lower lat. You know, a lot of people today, I think are like, you can't hit the lower lat, but I feel like I kind of demonstrated that my lower lat got a lot thicker by doing just that. I haven't trained weights in quite a long time now. And I can still sit here now and flex my entire laptop to bottom. I'm feeling every into it because I've been so long teaching my brain to control my muscles in the correct way. And the mag bars are really, really useful if you're struggling to learn how to do a wide grip pull down because the way the maga works, it actually puts your elbow under your hand. And if you want, that's why they're so effective in back training because they actually put you in the right position to engage your lat. You've just got it again. People get so focused on the movement they're doing rather than what the muscles doing. And the muscles doing in that movement and you really need to start a pair of attention to. Where's the muscle attached? What hinge and lever am I using? And then can I put the load at the end of that lever to maximize the stress on the muscle at the lever? Yes, because if you're a stig, if the weight right at the end, it puts much more stress on the part of the strife over the stig. And that's effectively what you're doing with your muscles. So I can a lot pull down situation. If you have your hands directly above your elbows, the end of your levers, your elbow, that's what the backs move in. If your hands directly above that elbow, the load on the end of the lever, and that will maximize the stress into the back. And so you see little things like that that you just need to be more aware of what the muscle does in the movement, rather than what the movement does. Yeah, I wish I learned that sooner. I really do. All right, listen, we got some other stuff here. We had a one from the live stream from Jennifer and she says she is planning to compete. What does he let me actually grab this question here. I can throw it up. Boom. She says she's 10 weeks out from her first figure show. I'm training at my period. Absolutely sucks. Any advice to help through my workouts? I don't really know. It is obviously something I have no experience with. I know I'm a big fan of it. But I don't think you don't get a period. I can share with her what Victoria would say. I mean, I can't. I can't imagine for so many bruises. Yeah, well, I mean, she did say that training absolutely sucks on her period. Victoria's thought is usually that you know, because there's this whole movement now of, and she says she feels run down. There's this whole movement now of like trying to train to your cycle, meaning your female cycle, not your antibiotics cycle. And she said, like, just trying to, I don't think that Victoria is personally a fan of that. But if you use some common sense and you say, like, Dave, if you had a really long day at work and you were a little bit dehydrated and you still needed to go to the gym, common sense would tell you that it's probably not the best day for you to set a PR, right? You know, you need to kind of respect where your body's at. So keep in mind too that during your period, you may be experiencing some hydration changes. If you're getting bloating, there's a good chance that bloating is because you're not getting enough water in. We always, you know, we always think there are stuff like, well, I get a gallon a day, so, you know, I'm good. I understand that depending on stress levels, depending on her, her monol situation, depending on whether depending on a lot of factors, your hydration can change day to day. So getting more fluid in, you know, in a phase like that is probably going to be to your benefit, but then also, you know, it just might not be the day to absolutely push to be that to do the absolute hardest thing you ever have, especially if you're already in a calorie deficit, you know, possibly taking an extra day off at training or maybe working in a workout that isn't as taxing. Let's say she's doing something where she has a shoulder day. Well, what if today is a really bad day, can you hit shoulders today instead and then work back in a little bit later, you know, those would be my thoughts and kind of the stuff I picked up for inventory along the way. I mean, I suppose it would have the logic of what I used to do with applying the sensor, I knew within the first four, five sets if that was going to be about session. Yeah. You know, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, look at the, they weren't that common, but yeah, I usually knew, I know this is going to be shit, I just don't have. I would just switch it up and I might do more volume, super set sort of base still for it is a much more pumping squeeze. I might not, you know, the top 30% off my weight, but push the reps up higher. So it was still taxing, but taxing in a different way. So I wasn't trying to move massively heavy load. But I was trying to move low for a higher volume of reps and I might have even thrown some to you, teamwork in there. I'm still for like that to just swap it up. More in line with what I was capable of even physically or mentally dependent on what what was going on. All right, so we have here and by the way, I didn't tell you guys, so Dave's crappy connection is because he's on a boat right now. He's coming, I don't know if this might be the first podcast ever that has been done from a boat. Oh yeah, well, you're, you're audio completely un synced from your video now. I don't know what happened there. Well, I was going to say it was tomorrow I'm fit in some light internet, so I should have a good signal from there moving forward. Are you just going to live on a boat now? Was that what's happening? No, no, no, yeah eventually yes. Eventually you are. We back, we got some flowers in. All right, let's see what else we have here. Oh, we did have a, there was a follow up question about back training. I'll see if I can find that. Oh, and we had a request for Uncle Dave's advice. What about this one? So I'm not seeing a lot of, a lot of times we get gear questions. I'm not seeing as many gear questions, we say, yes, works for us this week. Although we did a whole launch with that whole GH thing. So I don't know how that's going to play out. But let's a good way to curb your appetite and avoid the munchies while cutting weight. Casey, pay child. Thank you. I'll possibly see you. This is another three of my strong point. Well, I'll tell you what. I think the number one thing is to recognize your situation. The number one thing is acceptance. The number one thing is to recognize what you're trying to do and and recognize that this is what your goal is and and play the tape through, you know, the play the tape through means think about what the outcome of that is going to be. I absolutely guarantee you that if you eat junk food like one hour later, you're going to be just as hungry as you were before. But guess what, you're going to have gone off diet and you're going to have negatively impacted your goals. junk food is always going to be around and down the road, there will be opportunities for you to eat it again. This is just your brain trying to play a trick on you and I totally get it. I think anybody who's tried to diet hard, we've all been there. Things that you can do to work around it. I say all that first because trying to like eat something to fill that void because it is a void. We are literally creating a void when we go on a diet, you know, in our stomachs, there is a physical void there. And then it's kind of an emotional void too because we have a lot of emotional ties to food. If you try to fill that void, there will be no filling it and it can become a really negative thing where now you're eating like a jar of fat free peanut butter every day and all these other sugar free sweets and stuff. So my thought would be this. First find that acceptance and then second, you know, what are the, what are the low calorie things that you have available something like more green veggies and your meals. It's going to help to keep your stomach fuller. A trick that I liked to use and it was green tea. I would use a cup of hot green tea met afternoon. It was something that, you know, obviously it's, it's not going to be super filling to drink green tea. But it does have flavor. It does, it does give you a sense of satisfaction and I would mix out tirersene with it as well. I'll tirersene is really beneficial while we're dieting it can support thyroid function increases alertness. A lot of people use it as a new tropic. Dave. He's trying to human know it's the same as green tea. It's close. It's close. I see close. But yeah, and I just looked at that as being like this ritual that I had. So I'd have the green tea. I take the al tirersene. I'd get that mental boost and it would help me to stay on track better overall. I mean, if you really needed to, there's like sugar free jello is going to be, I believe, four, four carbs per cup. So, you know, it's not going to take you that far off. And if you limit it to one cup a day, that's not going to be a bad thing. Take a spoon and just take a little tiny bite set of time and it's going to be a lot more satisfying than if you just like power through and demolish the whole thing. That sugar free jello, by the way, not sugar free pudding. Those two things are very different in my book. So just a few thoughts there. But that's the advice I usually share with my clients. Vegetables. Pickled vegetables. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, you could eat like that's a great one. I've used like a pickle. I've told people, yeah, I've told people, yeah, I've told people, yeah, pickle, pickle, Cabbage is just a flower. I find that quite useful. Yeah, I think that sodium helps to fill your stomach up too, you know. But watch out for like the bread and butter pickles things that have added sugar because that's going to be no bueno. All right. Oh, here's when for you Dave back to the gear talk. He says I recall Dave mentioning using nova ducks while on nandromone. Can Dave please reiterate the details and reasoning behind that. How often do you take it? Dozinging and it would it be on the same day as your shots or opposite days, et cetera. I'm sure to roam us and be incorporated as well. He's planning on 150 tests every week. NPP and DACA ramping from 300 to 1000 from the start to the end. And he's also going to be using 50 debaul during the final six weeks. He says, And then he said, should I include a romison as well? He's six foot two, two hundred pounds, 13% loves the show. I think in F YouTube he said, I think things have got maybe slightly screwed here. So I like to put nobody's in as a star of a cycle as a preventive measure just to safeguard against gyna. However, nova ducks does actually have an actually against a progesterone receptor as well. It's not a primary but it will actually work slightly as block in the PR as well. But yes, so I use nova ducks to sort of safeguard. At the end of the day, each of the genie shoes, water retention, things like that are easily fixed. But the development of physical tissue in the breast is not so easily fixed. So I just like to flow over in five or six weeks into a cycle. I would test the estrogen. If someone, I mean, that's a low test dose in, but obviously the decor is going to go very high. So you're still going to get some issues in there. So I suspect you are going to need some formalization management at some point, whether you need it from the get go would very much depend on you as an individual and what your previous experiences are. But I would always throw nova ducks into star. Then at about a week five, I would test and see what you should do there. And from there, I would formulate any management plan depending on what I'm doing with my dose in and how I'm feeling or how the individual's thinking when it comes these days. Obviously, I'm not using myself anymore, but I'm not using T.R.V. So it would be right. We get to week five, where's your region? How do you feel? And then I'd set some formal management moving forth from there. But at least I know we've got some protection against going out to start with. Okay. That's my sort of thought process around overdex more than, you know, as any particular benefit to being used with decor or anything of our nature. Yeah. So man, I'd be curious to hear how this guy does. I don't know personally, man, I haven't seen anybody I've ever worked with who has had a successful run with a high high, nanderlone cycle. I've heard of people doing it. I haven't personally seen it. I've had successful sort of 300 and 900, so 300 tests, 9 and a decade. We're clients, but I've never had anyone run that low and not one thing today. Yeah. And there's also been people that obviously haven't coached with it and need to change things for one reason or another. But yeah, I've had a lot of people told it very well, but not everybody definitely, but it's not something that everybody's been to cope with. It's not just the lower end of DHT against the DHN. It's also just a fact that Decker can rebeef, screw certain people's happiness. Yeah. Yeah. I've seen that with a lot of people. Nanderlone's in general seemed to be kind of questionable for people, I think. Yeah. He seemed to be something that was never really thought about or even considered in previous years. And as only sort of come to light in the last five, and so many in the last sort of four or five years, I've heard people have issue with depression when on Decker. Yeah. Maybe to do with overall dosings or maybe something else is going on, I'm not sure. 10, 15 years ago, people were in on Justin Decker all day long with never been anyone to people ever know, complain about it. But then also 15 years ago, people run cycles and just got on with it. They didn't go south, they felt it wasn't a dumb thing. You just didn't go on with it. You know, so... Yeah. He's always been there. It's just been like a feedback. There's not existed in the vast. That's possible. We did hear people talk about some compounds like Trimble-On. You know, the Trimble-On's always kind of had that, you know, devotion about all reputation. So there you go. Yeah. I mean, you go back to when I was cutting my teeth, which would be only, I said forget that's 30 years ago now, no. Okay. You know, so you go about 30 years and Decker was a staple and nobody ever had any issues with it. But like, you know, that wasn't it. You were you didn't talk about your issues as well. You just buried them and lifted more weight. You just got over there, you know, and she had happened to fill with it. All right. We can't anyway. Yeah. How about this one, then? This is just it is, and we've kind of talked about this kind of stuff before. He said he did his first cycle was a 250 test. And he's already responded really well. So for his next offseason bulk, he'd like to, you know, he wants to focus on adding mass. He says he wants to add something to that maybe debaul. What dosage? Thanks guys. You first. Oh, you know, my brain, please. All right. Let's look at this way. If you did really well in 350 test, there's a real good chance that you do really well with 350 tests again. So there is that. If you want to try to keep things as minimal as possible. Uh, the anapol is a compound that'll put on a lot of water weight and give you a lot of strength. It's not something that I would run through the entire cycle. Do keep in mind. There's going to be your, your, your estrogen levels are going to change. There's going to be higher potential for side effects. So if I were to use it, I would try to use the minimum amount possible to get the effect I want. Now that said, there is going to be like a minimal effect of dose two, you know. We, we've talked before about, hey, maybe taking five milligrams would would be enough to notice a difference in the gym and you feel like a little bit better pumps, but realistically, I don't personally think that that's going to provide a lot of additional muscle growth. So we do need to take enough to kind of get that that super thing going on, you know what I mean? And I would put that it maybe 25ish somewhere in there. And I would only run it for controlled period of time. Now keeping mind too, I don't know what he's doing is he coming off and going to PCT after I'm going to assume he is. If he's doing the cycle at 350 my guesses is that he's, he's PCTing and going back to natural levels. You know, a lot of times we've talked about using default toward the end of a cycle nowadays. But if you were to do that, you might, you might end up with like higher estrogen and more complications at the tail end of your cycle as you come back to you. Your cycle as you come off and it could become more of a mass getting into your PCT. So that would be something I'd look out for. But since he knows how test effects him, I think that's the first and foremost thing that we want to know. How does that first compound affect you? And then from there, you can in future cycles begin layering things on to that if you wanted to. I think, I think debob would be a decent option and I'd even say for his purposes. Maybe let the test get built up and then maybe a six week period with the debob, something like that at 25 per day and then finish the cycle out. That would be my thought. But I think there's so many different ways you could do it. You could run it the last six weeks. You could run it the first six weeks. You could run it on training days only. You could run it on training days only for, you know, the last four weeks. There's really a lot of ways to do it. That's just one. Yeah, I'd first thought would be just in 500 megattest. Yeah. Why do we need to add anything else? We're still, you were on a lot of those. There's still plenty of ceiling with the test on this. You know I, you operate with it. You're getting an exclamation management at 500 I was suspect. The only thing I debob is definitely one of the compounds that's going to favor the bulk. My only concern would be the lack of experience in each of your management whether I want him. If he's flying solo to start to have to try and cope with the each of your, the willies lack of experience. So yeah, I'm probably also possibly favor a second compound being the DHT. Yeah, that's not a bad idea at all. So you could do the test with some var. You could do the test with us from mast. You could switch it up. But I think from where he started going up to 500 total injectable, either all test or 300 test to him to master whatever, what would would be a very easy way to move forward out actually, need very much in the way of management. Because as long as his master's genuine, he's sort of self controlling his app, 300 to 100. I like that actually. I would feel a lot more comfortable with that setup. Like you said, not knowing if he's doing this on his own, I assume he is if he's asking us. I think I just run, run, you wouldn't need to go, right, okay, well, you need to do this at this point. Right, this point. You could run. You must go, but as you shop in soy. Yeah. I've seen guino issues with debob, I would say on a much higher frequency than, than most other compounds really. It comes out hard to find. Debob is a nice drug, I don't like Debob, I don't like it, but it does require some intelligence with his management. And I think because it's such an old school drug and it's been around for so long, a lot of people don't realize actually, you know, you sort of need to respect that stuff. It's not just a case of flood type of thing throughout the living, it's a conversation at a big rate and it converts to a synthetic estrogen that's super strong. It's not like you're not really you're naturally, you're in general, you're in general, it'll test these much more, and it's much more impacting. And it needs respect where you could go with a master or an univar and know that I don't really need any management with it, so I can add it in with the comfort of it's going to be difficult to go wrong. Yeah, yeah, I like that. I don't know, being another option, but if you can get real pre-mo, I guess it's more of a lot of days than ever. I would say 30 minutes on an oral would be you can't point for you first time at Dippney Tailor, you'd say 25 30 would be super sweet. Yeah. All right, so we did have a question for you Dave regarding what was it here, Dear Davey Segment. He says, Brilliant Uncle David Segment for the next one, what are some of Uncle Dave's best sleep tips? I'm not a big using something to sleep fun. I think as a community and I think as a general populist human things in general are getting more and more entrenched in the pill for every ill, a tablet solution to every problem. Yeah. And though I'm not saying that's wrong for me personally, I prefer to work on the foundation of whatever it is to stop me sleeping. There's nothing to say that's having said all that. There's nothing wrong with using something like Gabber or whatever it may be in order to help your sleep, but I do think it always needs to be a double-prone attack. So if you're going to go for a supplementation or a chemical aid in order to help you sleep, I think you still need to work on the brain training side or the stress management side, I've also used sleep. And that does mean, you know, some form of relaxation, be it meditation, be it a reduction of oral stimulation or a stimulus stimulation in that. You go to bed and you you leave a phone alone for an hour before you go. My wife likes baths. She'll go and sit in the bath for 45 minutes before bed and use that as a way to release everything out of the head. So that when she goes to bed she's not. I like using notebooks. So I will write everything down that I know I need to deal with and then I basically what I do is that's almost like a program in the instrument and down now. I don't need to think about it. Okay. I can put it out of my head because I've written it down. It's recorded and what I need to do. And then I can think of reloading it into my brain for the next day. Yeah. So there's lots of different ways of how you can calm your brain listening to music works for some people reading works for some people. But I do think that time routines are useful. And I think working on whatever the problem actually is now obviously some of us just aren't wired right anymore because of what lies down to us or what we've done to ourselves through various things, including chemicals. But when I can, I'll always work on the training my mental state even if I do adding a little. I mean, I don't sleep the great is probably 40% of the time I've always got shit. I was going on in my head. But I just stubbornly point blank or refused to use anything to aid my sleep because I know if I do that's what I'll do. Yeah. When I would rather work on, it's the same work when I'm tired and I'm struggling and I would rather work on strengthening my mental resolve to get that work done. And that can be very things. You know, visually and goal, visually, and what the end dream is, visualizing just, but the other thing I find is, is I go back to what I've said a few times. It's just keeps winning. I just go back to just do the next step, just do the next step. So like when I'm working late and he's eight and a clock at night, I've been on the computers in five or clock at the morning. I've still got 50 reports to get out of that day. I just focus to the next one. Do the next thing. I don't look at what I've got in front of that because that's disheartening. Yeah. And then I'll look at that one step and like, I've only got three last days in there. Yeah. Yeah. He's gone from nowhere because I've just been focusing on the first step rather than the journey itself. I can do that too. Yeah. You can do that on that very low level of just a task you're dealing with, you can do that on bigger projects that you're working towards. But yeah. I mean, you know, there's a, you've got, it's probably actually better first in the supplement side of you've probably got more knowledge around what's the performance will help with sleep. But with sleep, when I tend to try and be analytically in my brain function and go, right, okay. So, you know, what are we worried about? Right. What can we do about this? I could do this right there. Right there. Right there. Right there. Okay. Let's focus on what we can do. And I think that's more well. He was going to was because he was asking Uncle Dave's advice, not like, hey, what can I take, you know? Yeah. So I would, I would, what I would like to do is to try and focus on a positive action, even if it's a negative problem. And so if I'm faced with something that's problematic and particularly, if it's out of my control, we never have one problem. We've always got multiple problems in life to deal with. So, this, like, we're not in a, all the moment. It's completely nothing I can do with it. It's the account and then it needs to deal with it. So it's in the account and sounds. Oh, wait. Obviously, the value, I didn't tax tax money. Oh, thank you. Oh, thank you. All right. So it's one of those things, but you can't help but be concerned about it. It's just natural. You worry about it. It's like a police following you. You've done nothing wrong, but you still start worrying that they are, you get hit out of it. Yeah. So, but I'm multiple other things going on. So like, instead of thinking about that, I've been points of looking to a pharmacy project. So it's like, I'll be right, okay. So I will start visualizing what I'm going to do with that project. Which is positive. So that's a positive thing. I'm being proactive. I'm looking at something as positive. I'm looking at something as moving forward. Rather than focusing on something I have no control over. Yeah. And generally, when we don't have control over things, we create negligence of scenarios attached to it because we don't want to stand on the account and problem. So I'll just focus on something that is positive that I know I can actively work towards. That's good advice. I go to sleep with positive reaffirmations going on in my head about what I've been doing. I'm going to do being productive or rather negative thoughts about something I can't control. Well, you gave me two, you gave us two bits of advice and I'm taking them personally that, well, you gave us more than that. But the two I'm taking to hard is going to be to write stuff down because I need to get better at doing that. Victoria and I actually just talked about that. And remembering the things that are in my control versus the things that aren't in my control. There's a lot of people who follow the channel know there's been a lot going on in my life lately between losing the dog and the channel and a good friend. And it's been a really tough time Dave and it's remembering things like that that I think are going to be grounding. I'm on the upswing now. You know what I mean? And it's just a matter of putting all my pieces together. I agree with you a whole hardly though, the supplement stuff. There are a lot of supplements that are helpful and I think the best thing I can always say is we did a podcast. I did one with Dr. Dean St. Martin called Hacking Sleep. So if you look up Hacking Sleep with Dr. Dean St. Martin, that's a good one. And he explains why we experience things like insomnia and he explains what the chemical cascades are in our brains and some supplements that you can use to counteract that like B5P. You know, simple, healthy, over the counter supplements. Not things that are going to bandate it, you know, like, kind of be a family. Yeah, big by face and increased dopamine. You feel what you're re-ordering cool. I mean, I think a lot of those can get to a point where we feel no reward in the positive things we do. And we need to sometimes just go back and go, you know, actually. That's a good thing I've done there. I actually do deserve a part on the, about well done me. I did that. I did that myself. That's good. And we socially, we sort of talk that's arrogance. That's, you know, loudest of congratulate. You are. You've got to be measured with it. But you still have every right to reward yourself even if it's just in your own head. Because you've done it them. No. You know, I mean, I've got 12, 15 blood reports to write. I'm going to try and get him done tonight. And if I do, I'll go to bed with a good shot. David, you've done well. So you're sleeping on a boat tonight? Yeah, it's looking on the boat. So. Friday. Friday show going on. Can you show me out the window again for our listeners? He's, oh, he's pitch black, you know, in the sun. Oh, oh, okay. So you're out of river though. You're out of river right now. Where in the Marina? Where next to the time? The time is in the time of the Marina. Okay. And if in your, so you're obviously you're like further north in the country. How far south, oh, you're south now? At the moment, the south, the boat's down south. Wait, hold on a minute. Where are you like? What area? I want to look this up. Like what? Just outside Oxford. Oxford. Okay. Hold on just a minute here. I'm going to pull this up. I'm going to get a map here. Let's see here. Hold on just a minute. Let me go to here. I'm going to do this. All right, Dave. So here's Oxford. Yeah, there's Oxford. I see rivers here. There's the river. Tests. Yeah, follow that down. Oh, down. No, go away. Wait, go away. This one. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, see that. We're collecting the water there. Right here. Yeah. You're in that. I think so. Okay. So this, this connects to a little river that can be done. No, no, I apologize. Oh, I'm going to have again. Go back out a bit more. What was up? Right. That's what I'm looking for. It's getting all right. Type in research. Henley. How do you spell them? H. E. N. Anyone? No. H. E. N. Why? H. Only on time. G. That's where you want. Go to there. Okay. Right. Good. Down. Good. On the map. Like that area to your left there. Oh, okay. Where'd that? So how far south could you go right now if you wanted to? Oh, not my map. Lonely. Why is my map not loading, Dave? And I can London. There we go. You could go all the way to London from here. Yeah. I know. I'll leave aside. There's ports, Mouth. Where's London there? Oh, there's London. Okay. I'm going to go right across to the other side. Can you go out into this? Yeah. Right. So that out. The answer there are people that have cross the channel in barges, but do it. You have to have a pilot's license and you have to have a pilot on board with a radio and various of the same secret because you all get to be traveling to ship in light. But yes, a barge has unkind of make that crossing. Holy shit. So with Dave disappears, guys. You know that he found open waters and he's just gone. And that's all there. Well, you could still do the show even if you went on the run and you left your light. I can get to Bristol. I can get up to Birmingham. I can get to the other side of the coast. I'm going to get a flat way from here. What are we going to about 400 miles of navigation talking out on that? All right, guys. Well, if we don't see Dave again, it's been a pleasure. And I, I saved, saved travels to my friend. For real, though, appreciate you taking the time. Our regular show got messed up. We weren't able to record. So Dave, Dave recorded from the boat today. We appreciate you having you. Are you taking new clients right now, by the way? Yes, yeah. I've always got a couple of spaces. I tend to always just leave a few hanging around because I have a lot of people coming and go and then they'll come back and then they'll go and then they'll come back. So there's always a bit of fluidity with my coach. Because I know you're like, I'm perhaps not people tidying for fixed events. So I do get a lot of fluctuations. So yeah, always got spaces. All right. You got anything else coming up? I'm getting away from the, I'm doing this seminar for the Grants to E classic in Aberdeen. And if I go out eight weeks, time. Nice. And then I'm going to do another training seminar, but I'm waiting for the full session of the first one to come out before I start pushing out. Okay. Okay. Right on, man. Keep us posted. I'm not really well, but numbers would have been low, but it did go really well. But I'm actually thinking I might keep it low moving forward. So I can get plenty of ones a one time of people. Yeah. All right. Well, keep us posted on that. Let me know when the video is up to and stuff. And guys, check out our sponsors, TrinityTrition.com and use our code think their high quality third party test and supplements. Thank you to everybody from Patreon. A bunch of these question questions were from Patreon today. You guys are helping to make this channel what it is. Regardless of if YouTube wants us or doesn't want us or wants to monetize us or doesn't want to monetize us. Patreon, you guys are always there for us. And thank you to everybody, especially on the audio. I want to mention to you. I'm trying to get video going on Spotify. And there's a big leg. I put the video. I put the audio up and then I put the video up and it. It takes days. It seems for Spotify to be ready to load the show. But we're going to continue to work on that. So check out that stuff. And of course, strong sports nutrition for those of you in the UK. Great health supplements there. Great health stacks and performance stuff too. And less but not least supplement source.ca for Canadians. Guys, they have great deals that change week to week. Hit them up if you want to save a couple of a lot of money actually and get great high quality brand name supplements. For another episode of the podcast, but they press and we'll see you soon. Thanks Dave. Bye.

This is sub Q. Everything being the same 9i use total. And here is the sub Q value. This solid line. So this piece out at about 15, 16 may be on average. That sub Q, this piece at like 37 or so. For I am, that's a monstrous difference. It's like twice as much or more on average. All right. So if you look at area under the curve, which is a good way to see what is the exposure from the drug. How much is it going to affect your body? Obviously if we filled in the area under this curve and Figure out what that is. I think it's going to be smaller. It does come down more rapidly here. And I can go and look at this paper, but we definitely get a higher peak. What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with coaches. Skip Hill and Drew Barry myself. Scott McNally. And we are joined by Mr. Musselmines himself. Scott Stephenson. What's going on, man? You guys, baby. It's all about you. The doctor was in the house. Yeah, so they're on it. Tell me what I need to talk about. Thank you for being here with us. Guys, all of our programming is brought to you by True Nutrition.com. Use our code, think over there. You can get the team, skip blend, which is it's nicer than just in ISO because it's got like a little bit of a thickness to it. A little bit of body to that protein shake. So when you're hungry and diet, it's going to fill you up for a little bit longer. Also check out SupplementSource.ca for our Canadians. And thank you to everybody from Patreon. I've got a couple of Patreon questions today. We were going to launch into this thing. We've got talking about GH, growth hormone. And we can even screen-chair. Think you've got a slider too. Basically, we talked about this the other week. The topic came up, you know, and I asked it. I was like, should you? I am, growth hormone. You know, that's what I had done for years. I definitely felt like I got the benefit of growth as far as you can, as much as you can expect to get out of low dose. You know what I'm saying? But yeah, I always used it. I mean, and the thought was, hey, there's it's possible that the hormone could get damaged potentially by enzymes in the muscle, which that was something I had heard before Isn't that what we were told or that's the topic that came up. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. But I mean, that's not a common thought. That's just, I think I've only heard that from one person. Okay. I've heard that before. But regardless, we thought it'd be something cool to talk about, and I know that we had talked about it before on muscle minds. So we're like, let's do a crossover. And let's get Scott on and then that topic just happened to come along. You know what I'm thinking of. You know what I'm playing? Where are you just ignoring me? You're like, shut up. Let me get into this. Let's get rolling. People tuning for the content. So Scott, where do we want to start with this man? Should we use our GH, you know, sub cue? So you tell me there's two topics. And you guys just kind of like, we're going to do, I have a couple slides already for the IM versus sub cue. Because I heard the podcasts, just to be like, I heard the podcasts, I'm like, I got a couple studies and I've this monster database. You know, when I, when I run articles and stuff, I throw the other hand. I'm doing, I'm doing, I'm doing. Is that how you refer to your brain? There's like, do my other day. I said, well, my computer and my phone, I don't know shit. Like, I just want to get like 10 feet away. I'm out of blue, two, three inch from my computer. I just turned, I just turned it on to zombie, basically. Because mine mines like one megabyte of RAM, that's it. Yeah, that's it. Yeah, I've got like, it's like a time-nix and clear calculator. That's all I have left. So, but I have a PowerPoint presentation from years ago. I've given it a few times, but there's a few slides on growth hormone. The kind of the question is like, why does some people seem to think, growth hormones the next coming and some people are like, ah, it's not that big of a deal. We can go through that and then one of the factors, the lead-up would be that one of the factors could be substantially that some people are doing sub-Q and some people are doing I am. And it can be, it can make a big ass difference. So, I can go into like, what is growth hormone, how does it work, what's this role on the body, that sort of thing, I've got three slides. I'll take a few minutes or we can go right to the shit that people probably want to hear about is whether I sub-Q or I am is better. Well, let's do both, but like you said, people, you know, it's a good, it's a good lead topic. So, if they're clicking on this specifically to hear, you know, which is better I am or sub-Q, let's deliver on that first and then let's get into the other stuff, which is also fascinating. Okay, I want to share my screen. Careful. I know, right? Yeah, I know. Be careful. That's the one. I'll just share that. Okay, I just have a hard and fast role never staring my screen. Yeah. All right. So, I can't see, I can see you guys at all now. So, you guys see the growth hormone, the equalizer? Yep. All right, cool. So, I'm going to just go with you this real quickly because people might get bored with this. But basically, this is the idea, what is growth hormone in the body? Where does it come from? It's released from a protrudatory. The big thing we're worried about is that it stimulates lipolysis, right? People use it mainly for fat loss, but then some people find that they get some muscle growth from it. It does have an effect on protein synthesis and it increases IGF1. This is why people. And I'm going to, I'm going to sort of shift this presentation for you guys, for your viewers, because they know like, I look at my IGF1, that tells me how good my growth hormone is working. I wouldn't necessarily say that for a different audience. That comes from what's called the semadameden hypothesis. So, this is the basic idea. I just want people to know, for two-atturgery produces growth hormone. It makes its way to the liver and then the liver produces IGF1. So, IGF1 used to be known as somatomeden. Meaning it mediates the somatotrophic effects, somatotrophin being growth hormone. So, those, that's old-school terminology and one way that, one thing that elevate IGF1 is more growth hormone. So, that's what happens when people do use high amounts of exasiness growth hormone. You can also bring this down, an old-school way, you know, can I know you remember this? People would go and they would die it and get their IGF1 down because it happens when you're dieting. That reflects overall nutrient balance. And then you're going to blood work down in your low-en IGF1. It's like, oh, you need growth hormone. And doctors would prescribe growth hormone for that reason. But growth hormone has other direct effects on bone, on muscle two. It actually increases IGF1 production and muscle as well. So, that's sort of the updated somatomeden hypothesis. In individuals that are already reached their full adult height. And we're not talking about people with acro-maggling now. Growth hormone based, it's main use here is for fuel. So, lipolysis. If you go to sleep, you're going to need to rely on fat. Unless you've had a giant meal or if you go hypos, your blood sugar levels are low. You're going to need to rely on fat for fuel. So, those two things stimulate growth hormone release. Exercise does it. Growth hormone releasing hormone does it. Grail in from the gut does it. In the muscle mind podcast. So, if carbs are elevated, that will inhibit growth hormone. Someatostatin, hybids, glucocorticoids, will moderate release. There is a difference between men and women depending on DHT, male hormone, obviously, or male produced from testosterone versus estrogens. That modifies the growth hormone release differences that you see in men. So, the thing that most blood people would know, there's two main isophorms of growth hormone. But one that people inject, the one that you get prescribed, or the one that you apply in the black market, is a 22 kilo Dalton molecular weight form of growth hormone. There's also a smaller, somewhat smaller isophorm, 176 amino acids. This one also gets released, depending on exercise, for instance. So, this can be 5 to 10%, maybe more, depends on the person. Only like half to three quarters of the growth hormone that's floating around is actually this 22 kilo Dalton version of the stuff that people get. So, there's also active fragments. There's dimers, or multiple times of ligodhymers, found in the blood that can have active growth hormone activities. So, there's a, it's not just the one growth hormone molecule. That gets injected. There's actually a whole sort of family of growth hormone molecules. Let me get this out of the way. So, I can't see my move. There you go. You can see what I'm reading there. So, anyway, there's growth hormones found in various forms. And there's also growth hormone binding protein that actually comes from the same gene that is responsible for the growth hormone receptor. So, there's a chance of variability there. So, looking at this big picture as far as what growth hormone does, let's say comes in exogously. There's going to be variability in responsiveness to the, to the IGF1 release. Some people get a lot of IGF1 they use X amount of growth hormone. Some people don't. That's going to depend on two what their dietary status is. There's someone's in an Aussies and they're eating a lot. The IGF1 may already be elevated or could already be a sealant effect there. They don't get much. If I'm going to say how much growth hormone they use. Someone starts growth hormone and they start dieting down at the same time. They give it some time for the IGF1 levels to go up. Maybe it doesn't go up so much because now they're in a chloric deficit, which will lower it. Growth hormone brings it back up. They don't see much of a change like how my growth hormone's fake. Right? Then they extend to which growth hormone is bound to this binding protein can make a difference. And there's also differences in the growth hormone receptor, which is in this next slide. So it's polymorphisms here. I'm not going to go into all this to be honest. It's not that important. Really, there's some interesting stuff that the growth hormone gene does not seem to affect height, for instance in non-dwarf. So it doesn't matter as far as growth, per se, with there are differences there. That matter with someone's got excess growth hormones, accomagly. So that's another thing that can play role. There's two versions of this growth hormone binding protein, and they have different affinity for the 20 versus 20 kilo dot and growth hormone. The interesting thing here, I think on the previous slide, is some people, and we'd only kind of mention this when we talked about Mk677. But when you're stimulated when you're using a grail and a growth hormone secretic agapeptide, the growth hormone that comes out of the pituitary then is endogically produced. It's formologically stimulated, but it's produced by the body. That means you can get, and I haven't seen this studied for squat, but you can get different versions of these growth hormones. And if you're someone who, for instance, has a growth hormone receptor, an isophorm that's more has a higher affinity or more sensitive to one or the other of these growth hormone isophorms, and you get one or more of the other from using a growth hormone secretic agapeptide or Mk677, it's not a peptide. You could have a scenario where someone lucks out to get more of one of the isophorms and they have the right receptor, and those secreticogs were splendidly for them, which happens sometimes. Not to mention the other stuff we talked about with Mk67, just as one example. So this is some reasons why the secretic agapeptide as well as the exagents growth hormone could make a difference. There's also growth hormone antibody formation that happens between like zero and 60% of the time, depending on the growth hormone, and the studies with dwarfs. So here is a table, children with a textbook growth hormone, up to two years at therapy, at this dosage, and using these forms of growth hormone, for instance, human-troped and work out so well, 10 out of 46 of the kids did using an over-nordic none, none, none. So this would be a 40 to 60 I use per week for 100 kilogram body bloater. So there are some differences depending on the immunogenicity, so to speak, to what degree antibodies will form from the different forms of growth hormone. It's highly variable, interestingly enough, it doesn't seem to affect growth of dwarfs, so some dwarfs who have formed the antibodies, think okay. That's not good, antibodies bind up the growth hormone, the growth hormone we can't do, it's trick, those dwarfs would grow as well when they get the exagents growth hormone. It does, in the studies that I've seen, this slides a little bit old, so maybe there's some newer stuff that I haven't seen, but doesn't seem to matter. Does it matter to bodybuilders? I don't know, so I put importance there in the lower left. So then there's the other issue of quantity and quality and black market products. Can I know you guys have talked about this here with your, with GH as far as pharmaceutical grade and that sort of thing. But it's GIP is sponsored by Sarah Stim now. All right, I know that's good. I know that's good enough. Yeah, so you know, it can underdo, growth hormone. You can, you probably remember back in the day that they would put H-C-G in, because it looked like growth hormone. Sure. Yeah, that was when they, you gonna get the pregnancy test, it will all green. It's like, oh fuck, I got bad stuff. Yeah, you got scammed. Or people would put C-J-C-1255 with DAK in there and they'd get some growth hormone elevation from that. And that would be cheaper than growth hormone itself. So, with the quality can be an issue, you can have incomplete proteins or poor confirmation when these are made with recombinant DNA. And there can be storage and production issues. So counterfits, there can be oxidation, particular, the methionine, amino acid, or deamidation cleavage. So you end up with fragments and you end up with growth hormone molecules that, that, you know, potentially aren't affected, they just don't bind to the growth hormone receptor if they do. They don't activate it very well. And then you can interact with factors. So things I've already mentioned here, growth hormone isiform sensitivity in a body's ball-bob-bob-bob. So, this shows subcutaneous 9 I use of growth hormone. This is a time course of somewhere, I think this is maybe in male and female in these two, but I'm not sure. So somewhere around the three hour mark is when you're getting a peak here. This is why people will go and they'll do inject 9 or 10. I use a whole bottle and they go and you get a growth hormone test about this time and they go and they compare with some of the online sources to see where it is my growth hormone stack up. The issue could be there, potentially binding, or we're going to talk about the next two slides. So I think I need to stop my screen sharing and go to the other slideshow. So hold on, we do that. Guys, I gotta take a break to do the whole lecture, subscribe thing, but I also want to say thank you to you. The internet's kind of a weird place, in case you didn't know. And I'm glad that we've put the community together that we have. I'm grateful to read your comments, in fact, I know a lot of YouTubers that don't read comments. I read all of them and I try to get back to everybody. So if you comment, I will see it and I'll try to get back to you. Also, the like button is absolutely free of charge. You don't have to pay anything to hit it and it does help us out of town. It's not going to push us into your algorithm, but it will help other people to hopefully find the show. So if you like our stuff, please try to help us out. So when this is what maybe think about, I knew I had these papers. When you guys brought this up on the other podcast. So I'm like, there's a couple of studies. I'm like, I figured I'd take a look at those things. So one thing I thought I'd mention, it's kind of important. When you see graphs like this and you see these bars here. So there's a dot, that's a mean bar and this is a plus standard deviation bar. So they just grew them in one direction just to make the graph less messy. But what this means is that for this time point, two hours afterwards, this was the average, right? It peaked about three hours, so this was the average here. And then for instance, for this peak, this is the standard deviation. So that means if we look over here, this is the normal curve, the Gaussian distribution, the bell curve, basically. And it shows what a standard deviation is. So if this was our average, so this value here on the curve. And we went out one standard deviation either way. That would capture a little more than two thirds of the people. And for assuming we got this normal distribution, that's a pretty safe assumption. So if we want to make sure we're missing only maybe 5% of people, we go out two standard deviations. So I'm going to draw a bottom line here. So if we two thirds of people here, if this is like, let's say this is 37 and this goes up to like 50. So that's like 13 and we go down here and we go down to like 24. So if we go from 24 to what did I say like 50, that captures two thirds of the people, a little more than two thirds of the people in terms of their peak dose. So there's going to be some people that are up here, potentially a very few. Our bulk of our folks are going to be here, right? And they'll be people down here assuming this is normally distributed at this time point. So these are big standard deviation markers here. So there's going to be some super responder, at least terms of what happens to serum growth hormone concentration, who's going to be up here after this dose. And there's going to be some poor sod down here. This will help potentially if you test another people. And for what it's worth, we're just diving into this. This is about 9 I use for 100 kilogram person. It's usually hot standard I think. So this is like the 10 I you bottle. And what you see here is huge variation. And we're just looking at this one current one dotting curve. So that's another potential source. It's just there's just a lot of variety. There's a lot of variation. In terms of binding of these things. Degradation to could be a possibility. I don't know about the degradation and muscle being a possibility. I haven't seen that, but it's you know, it could possibly happen. But the main point here is that there are three conditions in this graph. The dotted line with the open squares is I am. And this is for I use there's just a different concentration. So they compared a more concentrated inject date. So they had more volume. But it's this every time they give about 9 I use. This is 10 I use for ML. It's just less concentrated. So we can we can just kind of ignore that. This is sub Q. Everything being the same 9 I use total. And here is the sub Q value. This solid line. So this peaks out at about 15 16 maybe on average. That sub Q this peaks at like 37 or so. For I am that's a monstrous difference. It's like twice as much or more on average. All right. So if you look at area under the curve, which is a good way to see what is the exposure from the drug. How much is it going to affect your body. Obviously if we filled in the area under this curve. And figure out what that is. I think it's going to be smaller. It does come down more rapidly here. And I can go and look at this paper, but we definitely get a higher peak. So there's a difference there in the pharmacogenetics. Big one. This is this paper from 92. And then here's another. And this one this is a cool one because they compared men and women. These are actually trained subjects. These were athletes. So they were all trained. So this is pretty relevant to people listening now. These were bodybuilders. But then they're bodies, they're like, You're giving me GH. I'm coming in. They're like, oh. Sure. It's the same thing about 10 I use for a 100 kilo round person. Men versus women. And here's the subcutaneous scenario. And in this case. Some people got up to like 30. Each of these little lines. In this case is a different person. So there's no standard deviation bars. And this because each of these plots is a different subject. And the thick plot is the average. It got up to like, let's close to 15 again. I'll go back a slide just about 15 here. Right? Okay. I and I use this is 10 I use, just about the same. And here's the IM version. The line is the average. We're up at like 40. We're up 37, so not far off. So that's 9 I use got 37. 10 I use got about 40 here. Look at this dude. I'm way back guy. I wanted that guy. Right? And then there's this poor guy. And this person had delayed peek. It looks like I'm reading that. Yeah. So these are the men. And then things are a little bit different for the woman. But here is a for instance here's a woman. And her peek was higher than, sorry, that into the room. And she went to her peek was higher. Me just eyeballing it here. Then all but the guy that this got me now. Here, who had the child GH bike. And then on average though, we see less. And this is what you see with women. This is in the other other problem. I'll spare you guys the trouble going back and look at that. But you see a different. Diurnal pattern of growth more. When it's sort of more spread out with women. So it makes sense that things would be more spread out. They just manage growth hormone. Not only from a secretion standpoint, from a binding standpoint, degradation standpoint. So still getting higher peeks. Here on I am for women. But here's a subject. This is the woman of subcutaneous in hers. Herz was higher than these guys. Any of the guys for subcutaneous. Now is this the same person? The super responder? I don't know. They did a number of those folks. But other people are getting you know, they're getting inflections. And some of this could be endogenous growth hormone. Yeah, I was going to ask you. I see all those little, you know, especially in the women's side. The females. They have all those continual little spikes along the way. Yeah. So they buffer the elevation. Right. And they got and they see, looks like they brought things back down. I'm guessing I can't really follow these plots. But these very, very likely artists, the normal. Spiratic elevations. The discontinuous elevation growth hormone that you get. That's nice thing about, in a way, about growth hormone. Unlike using like a long acted acting test where, you know, it's going to take a while for your HPT8 or recover. And in this case, growth hormone is normally pulse-tile like this. So you have a big pulse. And the body is used to seeing pulse utility. So, and it's in and out much more rapidly than, you know, like testing and fate. What have you had to do? Would you or could you postulate that the reason that females aren't as responsive is, as you touched on before, estrogen? And if that is the case, then couldn't it be argued that lower estrogen levels and males would be more productive while on growth hormone? I think there's just the factor of, let me get out of this PowerPoint. So I can see you guys here. I've got so much, I've got dual screens. Let's see here. There we go. I think bringing the estrogen down anyway is going to, it can help in additionally because of that factor. Yes. But the estrogen, having estrogen low, we're blocking the estrogen, just that helps us fat loss. Anyhow. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. Did tease that out? Maybe there's some data somewhere. Like, if you want to really geek out, I kind of figure out how to tease that out in some way. But yeah, that's a good, that's a good spec. It's another reason. It's an obvious implication. It just wasn't sure. Absolutely. Something else where you don't know. No, no, no, that's very logically. Well, thought out. Yeah, totally makes sense to me. For sure. So anyway, that's like, that's one of those things. And I'm like, I don't want to just like, look, but I know, look, I got my data base, right? I know this thing. Yeah. But I just looked at stuff up. You can find on Google Scholar. I just love like, you know, there's got to be someone has to have done a study published on the pharmacokinetics. So it's just interesting that this is not that well known. It's interesting that everyone says we should always do I am. That was a size in and heumatrop. So it could be that there are some differences for other growth hormones depending on what they're, what's in the, in the bottle once they've been reconstituted. But it's just kind of an interesting factoid. So especially for using those two, someone would be prescribed those or what have you then it makes sense to go, I am. I would think. I can't remember what we've had the um labels on the stuff because who reads the labels with their pharmaceutical GHP. Yeah. Where do I, I can't remember where they tell patients to inject, do they say subcure, I am, like, package inserts? Yeah. I want to believe it. Subcure. Yeah. That's what that's what I was going with that because for some reason I recall reading the serostim, you know, the whole full doubt which is like it opens up to a page like that saying subcure. Now, based on those studies which like you said, you just pointed out they've been around since 92, why haven't they updated their packaging or why haven't they updated their prescribing information? I, this is what you think. I know you don't know. I mean, there's just strange stuff like there's, I'm going to get this wrong, but there's a rule that the F, it's involved with the F, D, A and the CDC, I believe, too, that when you have any drug that's been opened, it has to be disposed of in 30 days. So you buy like a multi-use test file, right? And you get prescribed one mill per week and like you just throw away the other six mills that you didn't use after a month. No, no, you don't. No, of course. And doctors, you know, wouldn't, but that was just been a problem for some doctor. So I suspect that once if it's tested with a subcure, then it is meant for subcure administrative and then there's no way around that. Let's take it through all the testing and they pay the money. Okay. I want to do that. It's only prescribed. You do this particular mode of method of application. Method of administration. Yeah, route of administration. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But also talking about peptide hormones and maintaining disability, you know, just for shit and giggles one time, I noticed I had like an old bottle of melanotan. These guys know, they were sitting in the back of the fridge for like two years. And I was like, let's constitute, right? No, no, no, no. It was already constituted. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, so we were sitting there constituted two years at least. And I'm like, let's just see. So I took like maybe 500 micrograms of it. And within three or four minutes, I got the extreme margin plushing. Yeah. So it made me, I think when I realized I'm like, everything they've said about prescribing and about GH insulin and throw it away is complete garbage at this point. Am I opinion? Because I've also noticed insulin too that I've used insulin that was, I don't know, I probably opened it. What and used it for a month. And then I went back and put it away and then used it again out of the fridge, maybe four months later. Oh, yeah. It was probably just as potent as it was because I had the same effect on blood sugar that I had. Yeah. Yeah. Some insulin package inserts as a human is leaving a room temperature. Yeah. Yeah. Diabetics all do that. They always just carry it around at room temperature. And I would be the idiot 15, 20 years ago when I'd be the personal training. People feel like you know that really needs to be in the fridge. Right. Yeah. As we understand peptides need to be somewhere around 40 degrees to maintain their potency. Right. Right. I think some drugs, they may break down differently. And you throw some stuff. If you recott, it's something's in solution. You put it in the freezer, which might be okay for a powder, then you can get a freeze for extra basically. And then the protein gets degraded. And then it's like, oh, I'll just make it extra cold, so to grade more slowly. It's like, no, you just broke it. Yeah. Yeah. You just to stun broke it. You just rendered that $700 kit work. Yeah. Yeah. Do we know if this directly transfers to IGF spikes and increases as well? Would be cool if they had IGF graphs too in the IGF binding proteins. Yeah. Those were just acute studies. Like one time and it takes days for IGF one to respond. That's a much, there'll be a much slower elevation. So they would have to have taken, like in order, you'd have to have a rationale for doing that study. They probably wouldn't have done it with healthy subjects like this. They probably would have taken some population where elevation of IGF one is supposed to have some medicinal action. And then they would have treated them. And then they would have to follow them. So with Dwarr, so I would love to see it with Dwarr. So I have looked and looked, maybe there's something out there that I've missed. That's the thing, like if you look and look and look and look eventually you can find all sorts of shit. And I find stuff. And it's like the 15th time I look for something and I find something else new. You would not. You would not take fine all the studies. Yeah. They just keep digging. There's so much, almost everything's been done. There's like kind of a half answer that'll give you some idea. But IGF one, I would expect that. But I don't know that's been done. You remember Scott last year, last year you were called you because I just wanted to get your opinion on, remember I had a kid. Ten units of GH day and his IGF on testing came back at 821. And we were both like, yeah. Yeah, we were both team and Z. Z. And obviously the answer is pulled the IGF out and retest again in four to six weeks and let's see where he's at. And of course he went right back down to like 227 or something very normal and kind of solved that up real quick. Now I guess I'm going with the question based off, you know, laying that little platform. We consider him like a GH responder. As far as IGF one, absolutely. He could have been like that guy. And very much so totally where he's getting like twice the peak. They are in your curve as larger. And then on top, that's kind of the idea. If you imagine, this is what happens. I think happens with at least the majority of the factors for like the best I would be pros. Right? They may have like they've got various genes in place for muscle growth. Right? They've got three or four of the important ones. Once we made it a no about, then they've got the right. There's a phosphodiesterase in the liver. They're term is how much biovillity you get from an esterified testosterone or an androleone or whatever. So you get more drug per milligram of what you inject. And then you have particular anis receptor that's more sensitive. And so you take one guy and you put him on 400 or whatever and he blows up like the other guy would have on 1200. But that 400 is actually like 600 because his anis receptor is 50% more responsive than it becomes 900. Now he's pretty close to 1200 and then he just grows muscle better and he just is just so much better. So you take a multitude of those factors and start overlapping them and you get synergy and then you get this person and you just got all the right genetics. And it takes a different direction for people that are poor responders to and androgens and they take 500 milligrams of something but really it's more like 200 milligrams in a sense. You want that on a scenario that you just painted. Yeah, I mean there's one study and there was like a if you had one particular isophorium but this liver in the end of this enzyme in the liver there was like a 60% greater area under the curve for a 200 milligrams. There was a test-sipinate injection. Right. So 200 milligrams becomes equivalent if you have the right gene to 320 right. Now maybe there's another gene that I don't know about but this is this is the enzyme. I think that is the main one responsible for that cleating of like an e-n and theta way from test. But so maybe you just you got the regular version of that. But then you have an anis receptor that is on the low end because there's two different areas in the anis receptor for instance. One in particular that they found like is it frince you have an elevated risk for prostate cancer and antigen sensitivity that's how they kind of figured this stuff out. But if you for instance you know got the short end of the stick then yeah you don't have the good enzyme in the liver for getting more out of your injectable and then you have poor sensitivity right and their enzymes in muscle to the breakdown antigen so that's a possibility as well. So you align all those things up and yeah you could just you know you could really be pretty bad off as far as making gains or you could be really well off. Right. I mean look at like a simple one sorry can one of the things like kids would get gyno. Some boys get gyno and it's really bad. They're not doing anything that's just that's just like that's just variability without any pharmacological intervention that's just and in some people they're not even close to being a problem. Right. So anyway can we say. But it just seems clear and correct me if I'm you know not understands correctly but it seems clear that we can't take in this particular case say the IGF levels and go oh his progress is going to be so much better because he has a higher IGF level. There are so many variables and I positive this before but I can't explain it because my brain isn't very big that it's not directly related to that because there are so many other variables like you're saying a portion of that IGF is not going to be usable. There are other receptor issues I think and this is what I touched on and this has been a few months but we only know this much we're learning these things from a scientific standpoint you know relatively quickly but I want to fast forward 10 years and I'm going to say that I want to see more of an understanding of how and this goes back to the pharmaceutical versus generic how the IGF levels are so big and this means I'm growing that is to me way to black and white or Scott's guy who had you know 800 levels how was he progressing? Was he progressing like he had 800 IGF levels or was he just progressing like anybody else would? No he would. But that's what I'm saying I don't. So I'm asking is it always directly related obviously I would assume that the majority of time it may be but then there are other times where you have you know I want to see IGF levels of all the pros. I want to see if you know Keone or Keone how do you say is that Keone? Keone. You know if does he have is is is is is he having an average of how many times he's the only that's it. Yeah and I'm usually pretty good with names but I wasn't sure I know but the point is I want I'd like to see that just to see if across the board if those IGF levels are extremely elevated that all those people are crazy responders from a progress standpoint not just from the IGF levels being higher but from the actual progress. So I could probably go on fine I can't give any numbers now but there's various lines of evidence looking at IGF1 and for instance nitrogen balance and growing animals or burn victims. So remember Scott Connelly and metrics. Yeah we had a lot of stuff used to talk about was metrics with somehow formulated and creating positive or nitrogen balance or preventing the loss of muscle and nitrogen from protein in burn victims which is a highly catabolic scenario and so I always sort of laugh because I never saw those data but that's he always talked about that. So there's there's for instance data on burn victims where when IGF1 goes down and nitrogen balance goes down when IGF1 is up nitrogen balance. So growing animals have a high nitrogen balance they're accumulating protein because more nitrogen is being stored nitrogen is like 16% of protein on average that's what the nitrogen balance thing is about it's not there's holes in the nitrogen balance like you can have potter nitrogen balance and not have not see actual measurable changes in body composition. I've seen that there's a study out of Canada for instance that long ago they showed that it's like that nitrogen balance was really awesome with the I protein but it didn't the muscle growth didn't happen still though in general that you can look at see there's a correlation between those they stand to happen in parallel. If you got this scenario with a body builder let's say you take two guys and somehow you had just hypothetically everything else was the same and one guy and they're all they're both eating in which the same amount you presume it's a chloride excess as far as you can tell you've equalized all the variables but one guy has IGF1 that's twice the other guy you're going to expect that his nitrogen balance is going to be better there too. So like you could look at a correlation and I don't know how strong it is between nitrogen balance for instance in growing animals where you know they're gaining muscle you know they're getting bigger and IGF1 and if that you could see on that correlation let's say the correlation is 0.8 which is really really high like one would be perfect you can double that and 0.8 times and you get 0.64 it would tell you like about 64% maybe like two thirds of the variation and growth the variation and nitrogen balance would be explained by IGF1 so like if you have a really high correlation this is what I could try to funnel them now I'm kind of curious what I do this with all my free time and see how strong those correlations are because I think they're pretty strong and then the scientists would say okay like a correlation that high when we've just got that one variable that's changing we presume there's aren't too many other influences and other other code covariate so to speak it tells us that IGF1 is important but you could have a scenario just to play the devil's advocate here where someone is using G8 and maybe like Andrew's guy and he gets they get lots of IGF1 for whatever reason but their diet is shit and they're they don't like deep protein and they just like to eat like rice cakes all the time whatever they've they've got a great GH IGF1 response some out of medan hypothesis it was in that first slide is awesome but all the other shit is way out of whack and they're not training hard they're diet sucks they're up late night they don't sleep very well blah blah blah they could actually not be holding on the muscle very well at all despite an IGF1 you wouldn't expect that because it's such it's just it's seen it's like so many studies that IGF1 is associated with positive nitrogen balance but it could be way off like that so you could have the one guy with a high IGF1 he's nailing it man his trainings on point it's got plenty of protein he's got a good caloric excess he's sleeping he's doing everything perfectly other guys just happens to be a high growth hormone responder terms of IGF1 and he's totally drop in the ball you know he's using too many stems while the ball is diet is crap their IGF1 is the same the one guys doing really well and the guys doing shitty I could totally see that too so yeah it's all over it's hard to say you know but the scientific sort of like it's been didn't your guy test again when he was dieting and his numbers weren't as high they were still elevated more they like then like mind would be you know okay even okay and I also want to point out he was using generic to very popular generic brand that everyone seems to use these days so wasn't using he wasn't using Sarah's to him or sizing or you know no worries yeah but yeah no when he was dieting he I want to say it was still like 481 or 541 something like that which you know it's still pretty elevated yeah he wasn't using muscle he wasn't using no yeah no okay so this is another thought that sorry the product I think that's why a lot of guys grow during prep is they're able to withstand the decrease an IGF1 that comes with caloric restriction and get more out of it get get more out of what they are taking in terms of drugs nitrogen retention etc so what do you think about that Scott it's the interesting thing too is so like from a muscle standpoint and there's a whole kind of body a small body of literature looking at this but the IGF1 that matters for muscle growth or stimulating hypertrophy is the locally produced IGF1 the stuff in the blood that you measure on blood work is basically it's kind of a it's a correlate of nitrogen balance so it basically reflects the nitrogen balance reflects the sort of antibody catabolic ratio to use sort of broach terms for the whole thing to some certain degree so someone is in that state where they're they're re-comping during a prep they're actually growing some muscle and dropping fat at the same time simply being in that state one of the ways in which all of that is mediated in a very global fashion is through IGF1 right if you could get in to take a muscle biopsy which you know this is not going to happen anytime soon right and you compare a muscle biopsy of that guy with someone who's not doing so well in prep you probably see higher IGF1 levels that's some sort of mediated hypothesis who is like 2000 the first amount of mediated hypothesis like in the late 50s or late 60s that's the revamped version where growth hormone also causes local IGF1 release I don't know for sure but it's the same growth hormone receptor in the liver and in muscle so it's possible if all the second messengers after the growth hormone binds to the receptor and then it does its magic that if if that guy responds in terms of blood IGF1 he may also respond in terms of local muscle IGF1 so when he's used in GH he could be the guy where GH although with the studies don't support this magical muscle growth effect like you see from gear for instance he could be a guy where at least it's very it's helping a lot it's in his favor by far so that's those thing with IGF1 like like if you look and I'm trying to remember the numbers but if if you look at how much IGF1 is produced by the liver compared to what guys who use exogenous IGF1 it's like several times more than what most people would use even at a high dose but some people get really good effects and I have a whole you may be probably saw it came out like a year or so ago on john site on mountain dog diet.com so it's a pretty complex scenario but there's like at least seven IGF1 binding proteins probably some more right so you know is it something where those guys who inject the IGF1 just for a small period of time the binding proteins can't do their work can kind of regulate this excessive elevation of IGF1 and then it has it's effect binds to the receptors and then all the downstream effects happen before the binding proteins can kind of take take care of the problem. Relatedly there's like something else that I wanted to look into this guy who let's say who say who it is but he's someone who's got a pretty deep level of knowledge on gear especially and he's a highly he's a IFBB pro old school guy and he found from he's talked to a couple of people now who were finding that injecting insulin in the muscle and you don't hear about this lot but injecting insulin, what caused the local growth, the fact I am insulin and the one guy did it he was injecting his break heel rack radialis just out of just like his wick whatever you know because he's got peace-putting the other things other places he does whatever and he just started doing that he's not like doing all this grip work he's not an arm russ or like that he's a body-poter and all said the notice like his break your radialis was just monstrous really so yeah so like and I'm thinking like okay so what's going on here like is there is there a local effect whereby that just transiently because you know insulin's water based you were just like saturating all the insulin receptors in that small area and causing a local antibody effect you don't necessarily go hypod from this but it's because it's so localized and then the insulin stays bound to its receptor there for a while and you get you know for who knows how many it's just a number of hours a highly highly potent localized anabolic effect from insulin going in that one spot because in the most people do insulin subcube you can do it I am it's just armicokinetics but this guy was getting like all this growth from the break heel radialis because that's where he just kept on putting it put his insulin there so the bar was me is like okay so like what if you what if you do you know if you're using insulin like multiple times a day like put it in exact put it in the weak muscle group you know if you're going to do that just know that and this is another slide in that first presentation that you change the form you make a rapid you make like a humulin arm more like a hemolog if you go that's how I use it yeah if you go I am it's much faster so in and out which is which is good but if as long as you know what you're doing yeah but I change the pharmacokinetics we need to know that but anyway so you know it's kind of a mystery is the which way like the IGF one it's like you look at it's like okay if it's up that's good what it's doing directly to create that you know it should maybe it's just a global thing I mean some guys use IGF one and they get leaner yeah I saw that I certainly saw that yeah yeah so you know like is is that because it's creating an anabolic effect and then create a caloric deficit and the calories are coming from the fat it's not known to be lipolitic it binds to the insulin receptor and that's lipogenic anti-lipolitic yeah but if you grow and it creates a caloric need and then creates a caloric deficit then it comes somewhere it's not going to come out of thin air it's going to come from body fat so you get leaner because you're re-comping because the IGF one does that yeah so any of my argument with insulin too yeah you know so you know I'm intrigued actually by the I have been putting insulin and my role hormone in the top of my rectus femurus high because they have been weak from my injuries in 2020 and it's funny because I've noticed as I've gotten leaner like man there there huge pronounced in that area like and you know you kind of live with a man that's so as your type I did think I thought well it's probably just localized you know a little bit of inflammation because I'm always putting them there but now I'm like about that I'm not paying attention to that yeah I'm intrigued don't put it in your dick can it's not gonna work you know I'm not going to be the one to see that I was gonna wait for a pause and I was he loved it up someone I was just waiting for the moment I might be right back I can next time you're looking down like I just went up a few inches here and just accidentally but it's a little further. He's got a new protocol at the same time today. No before and after pictures please leave them to yourself. I got it this might be too big of a segue you can say yes or no okay but so constantly get the questions of like IGF does IGF LR3 and your opinion do they work the ones you could buy we're not talking to acrylics or anything we're talking about like the stuff you buy up to peptide sites would have you seen any positive effects from using those products it's so variable you know I don't that's you're getting the same thing I'm getting some people that love it some people don't yeah that's a thing some people are like the square by it you know and then you have to question whether whether they're reading it reading and assessing the feedback correctly or if they just heal that it's or I want to see some people I've been around too I want to see that it's obvious like I either notice and I go in with there can't be a placebo effect because I'm going in basically going it's not gonna work yeah yeah you know that's kind of my approach so I do I question people you know it's kind of like along lines of protein powder people ask majority people their favorite protein powder is the one that tastes the best yeah right you know but they'll claim that you know because of this and it's because of yeah exactly because of this and while it doesn't do this to me it's like you don't know you're not even that good with feet you can't even you can't even assess the feedback to your training but you figured it out with your protein you know your protein powder come on yeah good point you know what about you see like almost everything like this like what should I do as far as to use P protein is that the new thing or should I use this or that and the other people just say I like this and they don't so much like it's like it's like it's something like like not what's the word something you very unique like it's blueberry muffin pie crumble it's like oh and you got it for you know a dollar nineteen of pound but that's the one you respond best to the protein out there what about can we talk a little bit about growth hormone and insulin you know we we also talked about that a couple weeks ago too you know I think that there's a lot of confusion as to you know if your goal is going to be to grow muscle on how we would look at timing for growth hormone and excuse me for growth hormone and insulin would would it matter you know when we're taking each obviously you know a lot of us are using insulin pre-workout for instance say and let's say you were using a fast acting insulin pre-workout how would timing work with growth hormone based off of you know just what you've looked at and research Scott and what you've experienced over the years you guys saw those plots there was several plots and what we just looked at in the slide so you're getting out when you inject growth hormone you're elevating growth hormone for you know six eight hours at least don't there's variable right different in women too we saw so it's not like it's like those old school protocols where you know eighteen minutes out you start with you know four I use the GH and then thirteen minutes out you know you drink your special concoction with six different ingredients and then eight minutes out you they're insulin it doesn't really matter that much the main thing is you just keep yourself from going highpo if you're going to use a very workout for instance you know don't kill yourself not that much is just anyone do it that way but that's the main thing is just watch out because the the insulin could could kill you can get you know you can fuck you up if it doesn't kill you directly it could make it such a can't drive your car and you get an erect and if it works case scenario but the growth hormone has such a you know a long half life that's not a big deal the thing I've I know I've talked about this was a camera which podcast it was but I've talked about it several times is that what I think part of why some people find and we've already covered some of this growth hormone helps them put on muscle mass as it could be that if they're using with insulin in particular that's going to help because of this animal block effects when they're using it alongside when you're training your ass off you got plenty of protein in play and the growth hormone is going to offset the fat gains that you would get and if you can offset fat gains you leave more that runway so to speak to allow you to keep moving upward and then you avoid that psychological break that happens where you're starting a lot like how you look right if you're staying leaner and you're staying extra full from the insulin you just do more things you dot the eyes and cross the cheese because your digging how things are working and the insulin of the the growth hormone allows that to happen not necessarily per se because it's being directly anoboccal that's that's a possibility with the local IGF one race would have you but it's just allows you to eat more and have a greater caloric excess potentially and have more energy available for growing in a way you wouldn't and you're staying leaner so it allows you to recomp in a certain sense because it's it's has the lipolytic effect which would otherwise be canceled just by having the if you form a collogically you're causing fat burning that wouldn't typically be in place when you're eating all the calories that you're eating to grow so it just makes the growth it seems like it's anobolic per se but it's allowing everything else to be more anobolic your diet your behavior the insulin that you're using too because you're taking a more food and blah blah blah all the other factors sort of synergize in the in the growth hormone keeps the fat gain it bay so say in results be get more results yeah it's absolutely yeah and then placebo effect on top of that you know yeah too if you like how you're looking you're you're you're definitely want you're going to dot the ice cross the t's make sure all your supplements tend you're going to stand your cardio and diet a hundred percent more when things are moving the right way because how many of us know whether through clients or friends that when they're on cycle all six meals are beaten eaten everything's calculated but as soon as they're cruising or they go off cycle all I got four meals in today and I only train three times this week and it's like well no shit you're not getting results you're not doing all the the 90 percent stuff you can worry about the 10 percent stuff that you're not putting your body right now yeah I just had a thought it would be you could never really do this I don't think but imagine a study where you take take one group and you know maybe one group and they never get to see what they're looking like they don't get even there's no mirrors they don't get to see what's going on you know and they don't get any positive feedback and no one says hey you're looking bigger you know or you don't get any of that in the other group people are just they get ugled in the gym and everyone's saying hey big guy and they're getting all the positive feedback right that would create this massive placebo effect and see what happens in the one group like she's had been doing everything I haven't gotten a single compliment I've gotten nothing no one's paying attention to me yeah for a lot of people that would that would they just may probably just stop because they're not getting all that that psychological positive feedback coming in it's funny that's my wife that's moving that growing and now it's her fault that's why you're not going to grow yeah I'm going to have to blame her that's the reason it's well it's funny bringing this up because I was talking to my my training partner today and she's 12 weeks out from the Tampa Pro and you know she's like at that point where like all the baby fat all that preliminary fats off and now we're really getting some of the detail adds a really show and some good lines and stuff and and she was like man I just I just love like you know like everyone's telling me how I look and and everyone's like you know and people walk up to like wow like you really changed in the last week and you can really see because you know I've been removed from contest prep all of us have for a while now well it's a skip so we probably experience in it now but the phrase and then the the affirmations like go along way to making you go harder go stronger do more and affect your mood during prep right so I think this is like obviously it's not a real case study but it's it's definitely like a anecdotal report because you know and you guys have all been to or at least Scott you've been in my 40 yeah how it's a bodybuilder gym someone's always in prep people are always given praise to whoever's in prep and they're watching impose and it's cool it's a community right and you really see it because people that are getting that they do have better props they're they're excited over the gym they're kind of like forgetting that that prep fog is in there they're not dragging their feet as much as excited yeah it definitely and and I was telling her today I'm like yeah I mean I remember I forget that boost and I wish I still had it you know like I wish yeah I wish people were coming up to me okay you look good today like yeah you know so I hope you're getting that skip yeah and it is it is night you can be having a day where you're kind of in your head someone you don't know maybe they're not even big someone says something and I always say the same shit that I have said for 20 20 some years I all it'll never get old I always appreciate someone any any compliment and like I said it's probably because I don't get any from my wife ever I said I can walk around rip to shreds naked with a carrot in my ass in front of the TV and she would like you're in the way like you just doesn't know and then I don't mean that bad I'm just saying it's just she's so used to it right it's borderline apathetic it she's like you're not gonna impress me I've seen it time and time again for 33 years yeah was that also the why the good pros continue to just get better and better because they're constantly whether offseason content they're getting affirmations I think it's why they go through girlfriends so quickly I mean I'm just saying could be something there you know it's but I do I do know one person that someone at you asked Andrea yesterday about I just want LR3 etc I do know one person that I talked with not telling he's a high level pro and he was asking about I just one and he has been I'm not sure I haven't talked him for a while but I can get a hold of him and find out if how much he thinks his progress this progress has been really really good came from using an acrylics basic oh yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I mean we're talking different stratists yeah yeah yeah one cost you know $100 a unit the cost you know for a lot of big fan I Jeff right I'll take in for Lexus yeah yeah yeah yeah and so I yeah I maybe just get in the interrarity no but yeah did you ever get to use in Colux Scott no yeah I talked to people who have you know I've talked to people if we we know somebody who did Scott they but they didn't really have a lot of it so there it was hard to tell at that time yeah yeah yeah we know I know a couple people in common with you that you in fact you may even been mentioned him earlier in another context of another anonymous pro so I actually didn't know any of those people you're talking about taking it and felt they did not respond well something to this if I spend that much money on it I'm gonna convince myself that I'm responding very well to it I know one guy who did and he was not I have to go look at our message but he was intarably impressed by it yeah we'd you say the same way that some guys that jump on GH or like say they start using a farm grade GH and they're like yeah yeah I got something but but I'm not that impressed by it would you say it kind of similar to that like they did get some results but not the the big jump they thought they were gonna get yeah he didn't I think I think that's where he was basically yeah but he had already maxed out a lot of other stuff he was doing everything he's like he just wanted and he didn't have the gent I mean there's probably genetic propensity like pretty much with everything that ijf1 is gonna it's gonna create another leap forward for you you know and yeah I mean in this person if I remember it's been a while this has been like five years ago or more but he was already eating so he was pushing someone to somebody other things so gear will increase ijf1 food will increase ijf1 and then you may be that you've kept out on your particular ijf1 ceiling so to speak and you add more it's like you can't more gas in the tank it just spills out right there's nothing left for it to do so but you take someone else who's got some some room in terms of ijf1 then that person's gonna respond if he'd done it earlier in his career he might have gotten something out of it but at this point this guy was over 300 pounds you know and and pulled every lever he possibly could and you probably get you get like I said ijf1 goes along with growing in positive nitrogen balance all sorts of things so that lever is kind of getting pulled along the way and then if you try to add more in you can't pull the lever down anymore if it's already all the way down so can i pick you back off that real quick yeah and i'll tell you why um i get i get trolled and someone wants to bust my ass every now and then about me flexing about using you know Sarah stem and you know you you you you suck for as much Sarah stem as you use and i just want to point this out because this goes along with what you're saying Scott i'm 55 years old i've been doing a shit for 41 years i have said more times that i could possibly even try to count that i am mediocre at best and because i'm trying to kind of cross the finish line in the sport so to speak i want to pull all the levers and i want to leave nothing on the table so if i'm spending a lot of money on Sarah stem that someone else would be like oh that's crazy you're not that good you suck the reason is just because when it's all said and done and the finish line is closer than it is for some clown who's trolling me at 30 years old a quite frankly doesn't have a very good physique himself or themselves it's kind of an odd you know thing when you try somebody and you're not all that good but anyway that's why so before anybody if they're listening you're getting ready to throw a full fuck out of me i don't get i'm not going to leave anything on the table and i want to make sure that the GH maybe i'm not responding any better i think i am because i wouldn't spend that money if i didn't think that i that i was benefiting from it but i can at least do that and know that i've pulled all the levers yeah when it's all said and done so i'd say eat a bag of dicks but that's probably not politically correct but that's why i do the things so that there's kind of no stone left on turn and at the end of the day i can say you know what i try to do everything i could and i still suck you know or you know okay i got a little you know i didn't get a little better and it's it's something that i was willing to do i just i wanted to piggyback to that it's just every now and then someone's got to jump in there and they have to you know remind you that you you're just not very good if you were to see the people who's it's it like you said it's you know they're usually not better than you they're they're usually it's rare that somebody who's like a when's the last time you had like you know good pro that comes on and starts talking crap to somebody else it's trying to body but it's always yeah somebody that's not sure well i'm chick real yeah good point good point but but yes but so she's the role i think he's just kind of jealous of all the guys that compete today and yeah exception of the rule but in general when it's if we were to see those people the people who were like skinny you suck you know you probably wouldn't even give them the time of day you know even they wouldn't say shit to him either that's the thing they wouldn't versus yeah but still i mean it's just one of those things i understand the lack of security i understand why but you know i i get it i totally get that but it's still it's still i don't want to say it it hurts and doesn't hurt but it's enough to stay to go god damn like would you not if you had the means and the ability would you not do what i'm doing maybe it's jealousy you know try to try to put your third year old self in my position at 55 and wanting to make you know what i got a few healthy when i say healthy physically healthy like knees and back in it yeah i'm just doing i'm doing like man we need a lot i'm trying to do it the best i can like anybody else is doing yeah couple thoughts one of the empty cattle empty can rattles the most yeah you know and the other thing is is like it's a common thing people do this and sometimes the things you say about others oftentimes speak more about yourself true and it's an interesting thing this happens on life is phenomenon the way i sort of see that stepping back away is this person is framing your life choices through his his perspective and things that he wouldn't do and when you sort of take that idea and look at it from other angles it's like so someone could say to me it's like why do you spend so much money and time on your dogs just the waste they're just dogs they're just like whatever what are you doing with that like it's like why do you have like you got about 80 thousand dollar car you don't need an 80 thousand why you drive in that car around or like like play like anybody like you have a look at this and you can go to the grocery store and get fresh fruits and vegetables why do you have your own garden like what a waste time you go down the line about how people live their life and for you body building is your life in a certain sense it's what you've done it's what you love to do it's what you want to do and if you want to like somebody want to go and they're by a Lamborghini and they're going to ride that thing it's like you don't need you need a Lamborghini to get to the grocery store or in a fashion you don't it's because you want the friggin Lamborghini do you need to do all these things no is there a practical utility for someone else is at their their taste no but it's what you want to do and it's unfortunate because what I see from that sometimes it's an online thing but there's with that is sort of a lack of empathy to say you know what just someone who lives differently than than me and I need to criticize them instead of sit back and say why would he this guy just has a passion for body building and he wants every friggin lever he can this is what he does and if you see someone else like saves a rock climber you know people could say this like oh that's so dangerous right you're going to fall on break your ass but you see that guy who like tries to he wants the climb every friggin mountain and he trains his ass off and trains his fingers and he maybe reduces his body weight so his lighter he goes all friggin in that person I say that's the badest friggin thing I've ever seen this guy's absolute animal and he looked at you doing the same thing and you're domain and think yeah what are you doing like you look like shit it's like you know people that are really into a skill or a lifestyle when they see someone else that's like like let's say a really good like violinist or something maybe it's not my thing what you're kind of is I really enjoy watching people that are really good at music but like I could never do that but I have a massive appreciation to them at a time and must have taken to develop that skill and I think like what I'm saying is I think people will maybe in that realm whether some musicians or rock climbers or whatever we're talking about can see like okay that person's obviously dedicated a lot of their time and energy to research learn train eat whatever takes to build that physique and I think they develop an appreciation to and it's always people that don't really have something that they're grounded in that like to throw these things out they can't emphasize they just think they think that's what I'm saying the empty of realizing how much time and energy it takes to be proficient and good as something it may be they could a little bit more if it was in real person you know like we were in trouble maybe that's a little bit able to connect if that was not just you know this this kind of we're not real people we're figures on the computer you know and I mean kind of thing it's easy to poke fun at people in that situation yeah for sure hey I thought of one other thing I just wanted to mention I don't know if I ever told you this guy but before I knew the inside of body building I remembered hearing John Meadows talk on a podcast and up into this point most of my education had been in body building from people I knew or message boards and and if you go to the gear message boards the source boards they're going to promote a lot the guys that really post a lot on those boards a lot of times are the guys who run the biggest cycles you know and I really headed in my head that you needed IGF everybody would all the pros there was something there I was at that point still there's things that they're doing that I'm not doing and I remember hearing John on a podcast it was a moment that woke me up he said yeah IGF never took that never took that stuff and I was like whoa never took that stuff I assumed he must have taken a lot to get the size he was at that time you know what I mean yeah yeah and since some degree it's just just the opposite the guys who become the best pros of the guys that just like you did what really not that they don't end up maybe using lots of stuff but I know many people that's like you basically weren't even on a cycle that was the stupidest thing ever and you still or you know almost got your pro card at the national level show it's like if you started in things right so the ones that have really good not the John didn't work as that's off right you they have this perception it's like the bigger they are the more stuff they have to use and there's that's one feature of it but the bigger they are the more responsive they are and the better they probably did and probably look better than the average person way better with almost nothing and that's the part that isn't immediately obvious and like you do need IGF one to look like John did no nope apparently not well I think that's why I'm back in the boards you know the board battle days that people struggle with fill he's not using what everybody else was using they just were not going to accept that and they were never going to believe it yeah yeah that whole that whole talk that I do why you don't look like a pro it's all about all the very like John yeah people don't want it's just a hard pill to swallow yeah to seal that we saw that with today like all those GH graphs same thing that's why I put the standard deviation that's a little sidebar and standard deviation you see that with everything basically that it's a basis of just one statistical what we have doing statistics in the biological sciences is that we have a normal curve and there's huge variability and so fill heads that one into the spectrum it's just all there's to it right no matter how hard you train you're not going to be as fast as it was saying bolts it doesn't matter how much stuff you use for he's just better genetically as a printer so we appreciate you hanging with us yeah no kidding we appreciate you hanging with us Scott we appreciate you coming on man guys of course go to uh b y o b b coach dot com you can get Scott's book there and I'll post the link in the description here because you can buy the hard cover you get the hard cover of Scott's book autographed by Scott we'll put that link down below and a portion of that money goes to the ASPCA to help with animals of course go to bodyberry.com to reach out to Andrew team skip dot com to reach out to skip go to uh magnetic diets at jmail.com if you want to email me about coaching and of course true nutrition dot com get your team skip over there with code think and supplement source dot c a four Canadian thank you guys for Patreon oh Scott can we do a quick bonus question okay we had that question that was for you and I think it was going to be it's like I know there's more as long as I get some ginsu and I that's this question then all right um like o d mia remember that yeah Chris is wife he says uh question from muscle mind and honestly it's probably not the kind of question that's going to be like oh everybody's going to want a tune in for this but there may be some people out there that could benefit from it coaches that have that one client that has the yeah so yeah this is my wife has a little bit of a good story is a disproportionate amount of fat in her thighs and bum uh this fat does not come off like regular fat and has some quite uncomfortable hard nodules that cause her pain uh she gets very lean overall um her body full abs capped delts very detailed back but the legs do not change much due to this condition do you have any experience with clients with this condition um and are there any medications that might help considering a low dose of GH happy to provide picks and more details to help um she is savage trainer and credibly meticulous with her diet cheers so you I looked into that a little bit because you sent that to me before we started recording and I looked at it I actually I've never forget there's a woman who competed in the shows in Arizona I did years ago who was shredded in her upper body and her lower body looked like it belonged to somebody else it was really just kind of crazy I was still kind of bad for her cause you could tell she suffered man she went hard so another term for lipidema lipo edema or two ways it's some it is also lipolgia so pain and due to fat like palgia alge means pain like fibromyalgia for instance so there's pain that's involved as he noted in that um and one thing I found and this is just like this is this was a example of me getting in the google scholar looking around and just I just it wasn't a deep dive at all I just like skin the surface but it looks like and I would have to ask this or an intake with someone a doctor in this case would be important but it looks like some of this can be brought on through estrogen and he she may have noticed this when she went through puberty potentially and if it is an estrogen related phenomenon which is a couple papers seem to be insinuating again I didn't read them um and there's a genetic factor here too like 60 to 80 percent of people have a family history of this of women so there might be an estrogen related strategy that he could talk with his doctor about maybe trying a sermon as an in an off-label used by a block as a prescepter the ashtray receptor and see if that's helpful because she has a beseigh from bodybuilding something she has a knee just because it hurts yeah yes yes this is just this painful fatty nodules on her legs like that that needs to go if you can take care of that so if someone came to me like doing consultation like that I would look into that and dig into that look at that idea I can't prescribe anything of course but that's the thing that we talked before about estrogen in fact that's the thing that seems like it's related to this and as a thought without knowing what he would say but if this is something she didn't have as a child presumably she doesn't and then she noticed when because body composition boys and girls is pretty similar up until puberty and then things go very different directions so if she noticed when she gained body fat during puberty and that's when that happened it's probably the estrogen would be implicated or maybe estrogen turned on those genes it may be the block and the estrogen receptor went to it didly there may be a study out there that I haven't seen where they've done that and treated that way or maybe she'll find a doctor will say you know hey we can give it a go you know I don't know how old she is she may not it would be crazy to see that she does everything she can and then she becomes postmenopausal and then it goes away right yeah oh shit you know I could have just blocked estrogen or it gets much better so that would be my first thought but that's just because I had like 10 minutes to look I've also seen some stuff about estrogen dominant in particular so high estrogen and very low-progesterone levels so I think along with what you're saying Scott maybe a sermon some sort but then also checking progesterone levels regularly maybe even just on therapy could help out yeah now it's also depending on her age you know it might be one of those things where the cake the cake is cake or the cake is baked and yeah I mean it's but if it were attacked like in her 20s like like Scott was saying because you don't really see it in teenagers until they go through puberty right and then then what I see technically or typically is like when women start to gain a little bit more weight you know maybe go through their college years and beyond because I think back to two clients I had in personal training 20 years ago and that's when it really kind of set on and I'm wondering if maybe no one would I know now if I would have said hey let's do labs because I didn't understand labs 20 years ago let's really look at your labs and let's attack estrogen and let's possibly look at bringing progesterone levels up maybe you need some support there could we have maybe we couldn't reverse it but could we have stopped it from accumulating and get worse and the thought too I don't know if she's ever tried you'll himby but I've seen couple females that really did well with losing lower body fat with you himby so the estrogen receptor upregulates the alpha adrenal receptor and himby blocks that the alpha tubes in particular so that's one reason why there's a lower body fat distribution tendency among women is because of what estrogen does in terms of the adrenal receptors there so that'd be one thing I mean you know she could try just an over the counter and see what so what it does it's not going to be magical but then it like and reset and a interconologist would be the way to go get a hand on the motor button injectable your himby right to the right to the site oh yeah or a trans hermal there were trans hermal yeah yeah yeah all right well I appreciate you guys hanging to tackle that additional that was like a bonus question for everybody hanging out at the end of the show and for Chris our patreon subscriber and for another episode of I wanted to almost say muscle minds I was getting ready to say muscle minds of blood sweat here guys blood sweat muscle minds yeah this is what in gear

Maybe it's not spoken of enough how beneficial growth can be. It's a powerful net-on in a ball, you know? I'll let you know a secret mate as well because that's something actually leverage at higher dose in those phases with clients. Yeah. And I think psychologically people have a much easier time spending periods on lower antibiotics without mentally getting affected quite as much. And you know what it's like Scott, right? If someone gets affected to that degree mentally in those periods of time, they just don't stay off along, you know? Some of the new stuff like SLUPP332, I'm a big fan of that now between cycles. My favorite place to put it is after the cycle is over, after somebody's completely stabilized. And then we add that in as we're moving toward the next phase. And if it's improving mitochondrial health in number, then you know, then I think that we're just kind of tuning up to get the most out of, you know, where we're going next. What's up guys? Welcome back to Think Big Bodybuilding Media. I'm Scott McNeily. And we are back again with Kubik Challenge. What's going on brother? Welcome back guys. I'm excited today too. We've got some great topics. So I'm looking forward to getting stuck in and sharing some insight. And hopefully provide you with some value as always. Yes. Yes. What's this? So we've got, I know we have a few topics. We've got a couple listener questions that we're going to tack on at the end and by the way, guys, if you are enjoying this show, then let us know comment. Let us leave us questions for the next one. And of course, if you haven't subscribed to our content, we'd love to have you along. We have several bodybuilding podcasts that come out each week. So Kuba, I know the, the big one that's been on your mind and your heart right now is, and it's not a sexy topic. The sexy topic is like, what are we going to do to go on cycle? Yes. But to the opposite of that, preparing to basically mentally, preparing to come off and the things that go along with that. It's a sad day, but eventually every cycle has to end. Absolutely. Every cycle, every prep, every off season, right? It all comes to an end. And then I do feel like you can experience almost a little bit of a, a bit of a tough time off the back of the, of the other side, right? Now, I'm going to refer back to the party day, right? And back in the party days, you have to understand that whatever comes up must come down. So when you've got, you know yourself, right? When you get that up, the, the dowel is just, it's, it's equally as bad as good that, that they actually that makes it. So the same principle of plans with Anna Blacks, that was an opinion. And I am pretty sure you all agree with me. And this is something that I have noticed this past couple of years myself, with me having the year that she had last year. And a number of clients that I'm working with and have worked with in past and as a recent, I've actually had quite a lot of consultations with a few females that wanted me to review their entire self, the blood work, supplementation, what they're doing right now, what they're taking, how the training is looking, how the diets look in, and pinpoint what could potentially run, why do they feel like something is off, and why do they feel like something is wrong, right? And the conclusion is this, when you are on cycle, in my opinion, you are constantly having a dopamine hit, you are making progress, whether you are in prep or enough season setting, it's still the same, you are stepping forward and you are making significant leaps and progression, right? That in itself is going to travel a lot of dopamine. Sure, now, I've been anabolic on top, that is going to make that so much more intense. Oh yeah, so imagine this, right? You've got a 20 week prep or 20 week week off season setting. You are constantly doing this, you're coming up, coming up, coming up, coming up, coming up, you will need to get to a point where you either enter a maintenance phase, when you get to a certain point where you max down on your season, or when you get to the back end of a contest prep, you will need to enter a health phase, you cannot continue using the same anabolic you are using, and the worst thing that can happen off the back of a contest prep as well is the pulse shot blues. You don't get the same traction on Instagram, which again is a massive massive kick for people. You don't get the same gratification of looking at daily changes to your physique, and in fact at that point then it's the opposite because you are looking at your physique, and you are losing a condition it was working for. You are slowly getting softer, you are slowly getting heavier, and then you get to a point where you are not seeing visual changes week to week, the body weight has come up, and even the progression in the gym isn't quite as fast. So you have so much less input that is going to drive the energy that doping in and that happiness, right? Absolutely. And this is where if you do not have the right coping strategies in place, if you do not have macro structure to goals, you can have a really really bad time, and I see this with a lot of clients that have immaculate blood work, both males and females, and I would argue it's much more severe in females and we can get into that in a little bit. But generally what I notice is a massive massive low of the back of a phase where Anna Bollocks were high and then Anna Bollocks have to be brought down. Unfortunately, the way we periodise a season, when Anna Bollocks have brought down, that period of time is also the least glamorous period that you can go through. Yeah, because generally, in that period of time, you're either going to be recovering after a show, so things are just not going to be the same. You'll be getting body fat, or you are entering a maintenance phase in off season, where your drugs are coming down and guess what? You just get in softer because the drugs are coming down, the look isn't the same, you don't have the same intracellophoneness, so every week you look itself and you get softer, you're not strong, you're not making the same progression the gym. Mentally, I feel like a bodybuilding can be extremely harsh in those situations on both males and females. One way to avoid this is setting some mini goals and having a structure in place where you are not just getting dopamine from bodybuilding. I feel like the people that have nothing else contratables. Watch the table, by the way. I tell people you get a couple of hands. I do an infarctum and a pound on the table. Jail the people that have nothing but bodybuilding, right? Yeah. They will always have a much harder time to be able to recover from these phases. So the best piece of advice in supplements aside will conquer supplements in a little moment, but the best piece of advice can give you when you do go through that phase where antibiotics are lower or antibiotics are seized. In most female cases, you will come off antibiotics and then the delo is even worse. You have to find something else that is going to give you a similar amount of dopamine and this is where I do believe that having other interests and hobbies can be extremely beneficial and helpful because then you are not sitting all day and thinking about your own process. Yeah. And this has come from someone that can be extremely self-aware of my own thoughts, especially in the past few years. I can really be in my own head. If I'm not busy, it's the worst it can happen to me because if I'm not busy and I'm occupied with stuff that I enjoy and I'm passionate about again for me it's just a downhill spiral and it's the same and it's funny and it must be something genetic because my mom always values me to say if she isn't busy, if she isn't working, if she isn't constantly engaged, she will feel extremely low and down. Yeah. I think that's common for a lot of us and especially like bodybuilding we are so like goal focused. I wasn't prepared my first contest prep. Everybody talked about all the things you did for the show. So nobody talked about after the curtain closes and the lights go out. It was something I had to figure out on my own that first year. But it quickly, I mean you're bringing a lot of that back too because some of that stuff I think I take for granted. No, so I think it's really good that we're talking about this. It's just a firm and minus call because sometimes we can get caught open just taking action doing all these things that we do right. And sometimes you can forget the impact, something that we love can have on us. It's not necessarily always going to be positive. We have to accept that. But there's strategies that we can actually put in place to have a much easier time to handle this. Where I think this situation is much more severe is females and let me talk to you why. When male stay kind of all it's, we will have a higher dose, a peak dose in the offseason. But then we actually come back down to our baseline dose. We still will get a bit of a dip, but it's not as big as a female world because if you are a female and you're not using any HRT, you're not using any of your fantastic, generally you're to start your response, but we're going to sit in like 0.8 to like 1.4 range. That's British range. I'm not sure what it's in America. Yeah. Taking something as little as 35 milligrams of any antibiotic of choice per week, right? Up to 70 and some females in big categories more 100 to 100 we'll see that quite often, right? Yeah. Now imagine what happens to someone's psychology, dopamine and all the other feelings that they get when they're on cycle, the second that is removed. Oh yeah. Combine that with a post-show face for a female where they have to gain body fat and already that alone is something that can really have a negative impact on one psychology. Combine that with removing the antibiotics and if you are not meant to the strong, you can experience an extremely extremely hard time and this is where post-show in my opinion is the most severe time for majority of assisted females. Yeah and I can honestly across the board females and males both go but I think that what you're speaking to right now is the number one reason that people end up not coming off. Yeah. I agree. Especially especially with a lot of females and look if you're not coming off as a female you're going to be in a world of trouble because even if you're losing low dose you are going to be a little less quite heavy and look this is me speaking of experience. I'm not an expert and I don't claim to be an expert on on female health, right? But I have coached females for a long long time and I see a pattern of what happens when antibiotics are used and when antibiotics are seized and what we actually have to point to practice a lot of athletes have no issues but if you have an athlete that is mentally fragile or isn't as mentally strong they are going to have even a hard time to be able to recover from a psychological perspective because I have reviewed so many different blood work panels, right? And blood work's got looks outstanding but they continue to say something drawn, something's off. It is off but I don't think it's necessarily blood related. I think it's more so they had the high and now it's just a massive low and they are constant on a baseline level when they have the feeling that they had backing prep or enough season when they were using a ballics to compare to, right? And it's just it doesn't compare. I know myself, Scott, when I'm taking two grams of a ballics, I know how I feel, right? As soon as that comes down to 400, 300 or 500, the difference is significant and within a matter of weeks. But this is where I do have certain supplementation in place and I do have other hobbies and my days at a extremely structured busy so I don't have time to sit and be my own head. That's the worst thing they can do. Tell us about some of the supplements you were mentioning. Have you heard of Suffraine Extract? Suffraine? Suffraine? I know I haven't heard of it being used for anything I don't think. It's actually really really good. Okay, really good. Jo Jeff is actually posted some research on Suffraine Extract. So I'm going to give him a shout out because again I don't claim to be an oil oil and I don't claim to, you know, come up with all these things. Yeah, he posted about it and I actually used it at it myself and it has made a significant difference. One supplement that I feel like is extremely undervalued in combination of both supplementary elites or meager at a very high dose. Okay, meager, high dose of meager has actually been shown to improve some states of depression I think it was. I'm pretty precise and there was some research done where a high dose of meager actually improved people's well-being that was really in a bad way, mentally. There's that. So Serotonin is produced in the gut and there's something to do with omega threes that are responsible to improve or optimize that production. And the only reason I know that is there is or was a psychiatrist who was actually from Michigan that I heard talk on this and he insisted that his patients all went to, it was like 12 grams per day of an omega supplement before he would even treat them with an SSRI. Just to ensure that it wasn't something internally that they like that they couldn't fix themselves, you know. So you actually nailed it because I was going to talk about dosing and ever since I actually read that and they look, I'm not the one to site research but I have seen it posted by I believe it was Dr William Wallace. Okay and ever since I read that I straight away took a omega dose of 10 grams per day. So I'll take 10 grams, 10 grams of my fat actually comes from me and I have actually trialed that with a lot of clients and the difference in my opinion is substantial especially when you have clients that have a lot of self awareness and not already dialed in. When you make a small change like that they notice it. Now combining that with high dose of D3 and K2 especially in UK makes a massive difference. I feel like a lot of people especially when you are using anabolic with spoke about this before but Danabolic, Danabolic well actually downregulate your D3 alone. Combining that with absolute zero sunlight in UK 99% of the time you need a hefty dose of omega omega and D3 together. Now yeah. I know I think that I've read is taking omega's and D3 together actually improves the absorption of D3. Really? Okay. Yeah something to do with the fat inside it and you'll notice some of the D3 products that you can buy as well are often combined with a lot of oil. Some of them don't actually come in solid tablets, some of actually come in droplets. They can be quite handy and other things that can actually help is so bad to believe it or not. You am realizing some bad for low, low duration of time to again improve the absorption of D3. That tends to really make some massive difference and final one that I really like is magnesium. Okay yeah yeah. I have very high dose again. People often take like a thousand-mild of omega magnesium but they actually forget that out of a thousand-mild omega magnesium by glycine for example you only absorbed around 10% of that. Yeah. So you're only actually getting 100 milligrams of magnesium. So essentially you need to be taking at least 500 milligrams per day if you are active and you are training a lot. Personally I'm actually up to around 700 milligrams per day and the difference I've noticed in my energy I'm at a recovery is huge. Okay and as a reason I'm not sure if you follow any of the guys that apply a lot of research on Instagram and stuff but I've got a setting my Instagram right where you can star people and you want to see the feed of the people that you start. Oh yeah yeah okay so I basically got my favorite start right and that's all I can see and they're actually a post-doc research when it comes to magnesium, D3 Omega's, creating and the combination of it all like you can actually lead to some fantastic results and ever since I've actually brought my magnesium to a very high dose I mean 7,000 milligrams which gives me 10% of that so like 700 milligrams of magnesium per day is a lot to a lot of people but essentially it's not because RDA is around 400 milligrams and if you are training you are taking our ballics your needs for magnesium are going to be a lot higher especially that being a bigger male or female. Do you split that up or how do you take that? I split it with every single meal so I split my D3 all in the morning because I do find if you take it pretty bad all later in the day it can actually the disruption sleep. Sure then my Omega and my magnesium actually spreads across each okay yeah that makes sense and it makes it easy to do. I like that with the Omega throw it a brand force what's a brand you like because I want to make sure I don't know how it is over there but over here we have a lot of real cheap Omega's that are in the grocery store. Dream by GHP, these got a good one. Dream by GHP Omega follow-pro it's incredible yeah it's really good scoff. That's right. Yeah and I mean that even is like trying to plug his product but just that there's a lot like if you go to the grocery store they have really crappy stuff that might even be rancid for yeah you know. It's really good. I definitely stand by the products and it does have potential ingredients and when you have these potential ingredients in it you cannot mess around with what's actually inside it right so it's definitely definitely why I use them face-out over that neck of woods in America. Pretty sure true nutrition will probably have some good Omega's. True nutrition has one but that's not really their wheelhouse, their facial oil it's okay but I prefer the I think it's ultra Omega by now foods and it's a two to one that I like a lot and I usually do about four grams per day but I have I will go up a little bit go up to maybe six or seven and I try not to go below four. Yeah now with Kobe magnesium final one show we out in the room and yeah absolutely. Yeah crazy. I mean the research I got is I'm this and did you know this is why I really like Instagram at times because when you're selected with what you follow you get to see all these little things that are posted and then for me when I click on it I get to see all the little research snippets that these doctors are posting and actually I can actually read something that's going to be valid to me right so you've got to be selective of what you consume your diet isn't just what you eat it's what you consume and what you look at. How much is it? I guess what I want to add in the moment. 10 grams? Oh 20? Oh I'll just keep doing by 10. 30? 30 grams a day. Okay. Hey I saw research showing that 30 grams had I can't remember what the result was but it was a greatly improved cognitive function in sleep deprived people. That's exactly what that's exactly what I'd yet. Okay yeah and this is a red that I was like right I'm taking for a let's go. Okay yeah yeah I look I'm not sleeping prior I've mostly textile and yeah but generally I'm very self alert and in tune with making small changes and I know if something makes a difference I do not have any caffeine first thing in a morning Scott but I do have 10 grams of creatine in my drink in my morning drink okay and I have my red light on right drink and I kid you not the focus I can't reach my 90 like 3 feet 3 feet over the focus that I have in the morning is incredible and I very much attribute that to getting good sleep magnesium omega is also creatine in the morning so all of these supplements that would just reel out guys they are not only going to make you feel good they will improve your recovery and sleep to an agree as well so you're not just getting a value from a mental health standpoint to an agree but you are going to get a value from a recovery standpoint as well so these are extremely helpful that of ones that can actually help you stuff like GABA pre bed if you are having any anxious period right I think GABA is actually really really good but also 5 HP I high dose okay yeah I mean if you've rave before you know 5 HP is a most so do you have any do you have any and your combinations into supplements I like P5P before bed as well I'll add that one in as part of my pre bed stack I have to be careful with high dose a P5P why before that it helps to improve sleep it helps you with yeah yeah yeah it's really good then the P6P 5P yeah yeah yeah so I'll take that before bed and I do need to be on a more rested okay I mean you can you can too it doesn't it doesn't it never like knocks me out okay but I noticed that if I do 200 milligrams before bed I wake up feeling more rested and I have to be careful with the 5 HP but I do like that one as well pre bed I think you're nailing a lot of the a lot of the basic things that I try to hit I'm finding too so you know we talked before about some of the new stuff like SLUP332 I'm a big fan of that now between cycles I'm just just seeing a lot of people like a lot of my clients if wanted to try it and I'm finding that my favorite place to put it is after the cycle is over after somebody's completely stabilized and then we add that in as we're moving toward the next phase and if it's improving mitochondrial health and in number then you know then I think that we're just kind of tuning up to get the most out of you know where we're going next and I do think that there is a you know there's a psychological boost to to like adding something new yeah so I think that's it I'm trying to find it with that yeah exactly it is yeah I mean it gets someone opportunity to really get stuck into something that's going to be let's see if this does anything right and it's like almost like a little chance to see well if it gives me like 1% it's always 1% better would you use it post show? Man I don't know honestly I you know this is the first year that I've been experimenting with it and I'm almost thinking I would I would consider running it into the show and if I were running it into the show I might then and I haven't had anybody compete yet this season but they are going to be in the next three weeks now so we'll see and he is using SLU okay and I would think that I would then continue it on also I'm going to throw this at you so I started it 400 micrograms boosted it up to 500 and you know split twice a day I'm finding that for and this is just for myself I get a really good boost from 250 like I find it if I don't take that second dose I definitely notice it if I do personally okay but if I don't I'm almost kind of thinking to myself like hey I can I get more out of less is kind of my thought so I'm almost thinking that maybe if somebody has a strong response to it like I do maybe just kind of starting love leaving yourself room to maybe even increase later you know kind of coming at it from a different angle though with the SLU I think that yeah overall though man I I hadn't thought too far ahead about this topic but I I'm I'm bored with everything you're saying I guess you know in another one thing that I don't think is talked about enough and I'm going to get into actual like compounds actual gear now of course so I used to cycle on and off did PCT recover all of that when I now got tell me about it so the first time that I ran growth hormone it's right when the original high-d tropians came out and they were great man great G.A.S. and I continued on that at a low I think I could afford like two units per day or three units per day I continued on that after the cycle was over through the PCT and into that recovery period and I I really felt psychologically stronger you know I did I kind of felt like hey I'm still getting some benefits of recovery while my HBTA is you know repairing I'm still getting like good pumps in the gym I kind of feel like I'm still on so I think there maybe it's not spoken of enough how beneficial growth can be it's not on and a bottlenecks you know a lit in a secret mate as well because that's something actually leverage at higher those in those phases with clients yeah I could see especially clients that have affordability again a lot of it will get to fairability absolutely what post show I do like to leverage a lot of bit more growth hormone especially when it comes to that post show recovery for extra sleep but also in enough season the reason why I to leverage a lot of bit more growth hormone is because what happens when the first two or three weeks when you stop cycle you get flatter you'll lose the pop now leverage a more growth hormone you mitigate a lot of that and I think psychologically people have a much easier time spending periods on lower antibiotics without mentally getting affected quite as much and you know it's like Scott right if someone gets affected to that degree mentally in those periods of time they just don't stay off for long enough and my goal is to make sure that they actually stick to the plan we have and stay off to recover the blood work and get back on point but guys if you have any questions regarding the topic or any it's something you might have experienced yourself or you have experienced it with clients drop us a comment below and let us know you know let us know your experiences at look it's something that I've experienced myself a lot and Meg compete twice last year but she's spent entire year prepping right so mentally you can imagine how low she fell off the back of it at the very end blood work Scott amazing right with the blood work for covered real fast the blood work actually recovered much faster than actually anticipated right especially after such a long season but mentally I think it took good five months for her to recover she's still probably not a little bit since it's only just recently started to feel like herself mentally so you can imagine that's a long time since there's been a plus year right hey one more supplement and it is one more supplement I do want to throw in during that phase as altirousine I think that altirousine could be really beneficial for help with regulation of thyroid number one but number two there is an effect with sensitizing the receptor that dopamine would attach to so you'll make it's from what I understand altirousine isn't as much of a stimulant as much as it is going to make your stimulants more effective and that includes things like norp and a for an end dopamine so in a phase like that where those things are going to be a lower in fact I know of a a neuro neuro scientist who who works with people as a psychiatrist in altirousine is one of the compounds he uses he doesn't just directly throw it at him right away but it is something he does work in great point one thing to mention as well is T3 people using thyroid I feel like I'm not sure your take is on it but when people remove thyroid prematurely post-show and I've seen this happen as well when you use in thyroid right for me the best way to actually come off is actually giving yourself time to recover and bring your body weight up and bring calories up first you fire over a course much quicker when your carbohydrate is higher and generally you will notice this in blood work yeah and people for people don't understand it's like the quickest way to recover your thyroid is bringing up your calories and body weight that is how your thyroid recovers if you are using hormone replacement thyroid in prep and personally I never use anything above hormone replacement so I will always gauge thyroid use based of blood work and generally want to keep the thyroid within range not above it absolutely one thing I've noticed and it always happens with a lot of clients and me myself included when you come out of a show phase and you go for a recovery period you increase your food increase your body weight all of a sudden you can be taken the same thyroid dose but the thyroid readings you will get in your blood work will be much higher therefore that almost gives you the green light to either remove some of the thyroid or lower the dose of thyroid and the biggest mistake I have seen people make is this post-show comes around they remove thyroid prematurely and at the same time what they do is pull back on the food that is probably the worst thing that you can do because guess what happens then as soon as you pull that food back down you metabolism down regulates again what happens when you metabolism down regulates you thyroid function is down yeah double body and guess what when you pharaohs low you are going to feel low as well you're eligible sensitivity to to to cold it's not it's not a great place to be and a lot of natural athletes will experience that out of away because you're not a but for assisted guys there's no excuse right so just wondering to where you have just don't overcook your pharaohs use if you are taken too much your rest in heart rate will be sky high and you're probably gonna feel a little bit on edge as well but again look blood work is the best indicator to really gauge and fine chewing your pharaohs use in prep and in off season I like to see that's kind of a good segue so before we go to that yeah I like to sit at 150 t4 and 25 t3 and that puts me okay right in the right in the middle but I do have clients that 37 t3 and 150 t4 like puts them like pretty much a bottom range then I have other clients that can get away of just taking t4 that's obviously was using rough hormone out there's 100 micrograms and that puts them in the great range with both t4 and t3 I personally like to use t4 initially I don't like to use t3 alone I feel like t3 alone doesn't yield as much of a great conversion I feel like you always have to use more t3 when it's used alone but again that's just my that's just my take on that okay all right segue I was going to say about the yeah segue so you had we had a couple other topics and one of them was what to consider oh no excuse me how you're how to use your blood work to guide your stack design so I thought of that one because you're talking about you know basically dosing t3 off of lab work so what I'm going to go with this one how blood work can guide your stack design I mean I know from I my maker it's not what it used to be on cycle so that's a major consideration for me is that where we're going like that type of thing or what absolutely absolutely I mean look we know different compounds will have different effect right unsight effects realistically an effect of a compound is to an agree aside effect right everything that's just a fact so with codifier right right we're I think we can all agree that the the most effective way to dose your fire out is based of blood work now when we look at drugs beyond that I do feel like blood work can guide how much testosterone you can use without over cooking yourself and having estrogen that's probably going to turn you into a hormonal girl and what compounds should you away with if you are using EQ and you know that your hematicrit is already high it's probably not the best drug for you let's face it yeah so you can always adjust your stack design based of what you see with your estrogen and even your Brad Red Blood Cell count to a degree personally I do not actually like my estrogen sitting crazy crazy high and the only time where I will let estrogen sit a lot of it higher is for the guys that gen with a like to have it higher or feel good on it being higher yeah what what's your range the UK range and where do you like to sit then I do you can range if I think is like not point 40 up to like 15 160 okay in enough season my sweet spot is around 180 to 200 okay so just outside just outside and I don't think the concern is if you are using super physiological levels of testosterone you should probably expect that estrogen to sit outside the norm because your testosterone is going to be much outside that norm however as much as blood would conguide our decision making and give us a reference point I definitely feel like it's often wise to actually ask your client or ask yourself well this is my estrogen this is how we should test them taking how do I feel is my section I've got do I feel energetic is my sleep good how do my joints feel how is my digestion how is more attention how is my blood pressure right if your blood pressure is too high you can in a ton of water and your estrogen is elevated and you are bloated and you've got poor sleep guess what you're probably need to lower test those and you might need to up wherever of anabolic you're taking to match that dose that you are taking overall I feel like a lot of people are obsessed with taking high amounts of test and realistic of Scott it doesn't really matter what you take what matters the most is the total milligrams that you can tolerate with the least side effects and what I mean by that is how much can you get away taking to a degree for your needs in your level right which that could be 500 mx or it could be 2000 mx or 3000 mx but whilst keeping the side effects are an absolute minimum so in an ideal world you don't want your red blood cells or hematocritin a sky high you don't want your estrogen sky high by the same time you don't want estrogen too low if you are using tremble or deca please always make sure that you have an estrogen sensitive test because if you are using tremble or an adecca that will give you a false reading in a normal estrogen test I have had clients come to me so many times when they're using tremble or adecca they're like mate look at my estrogen oh my god look at my estrogen like you had a normal estrogen test on there they were like yes well it's that's not estrogen mate go back how about estrogen sensitive test and let's review it again but generally you can always feel if estrogen is too high allow however I do feel like your blood work can give you a good indication of what changes you need to make with your cycle would you agree I agree yeah I you know two decades ago getting lab work wasn't something we did on cycle we were told to you know 20 years ago like get your lab work done twice a year you know make sure that your health markers are good now guys are getting on and I like also just people like hey you know we start a cycle let's check where you're at and four weeks let's see where your estrogen level is then and then we can decide what we're gonna do as far as estrogen control man had we not done that in certain circumstances I wouldn't have discovered that EQ was greatly impacting a guy's estrogen levels you know and sometimes it can just be then hey maybe we in that situation maybe we do want more test in order to get that ratio higher than then say we were at a one to one test to to EQ you know maybe when it say it was 300 and 300 maybe we want to go to 500 test to 300 EQ to get that into a better range we wouldn't be able to do that had we not checked to see what his estrogen levels were you know and and that will greatly affect your gains if your estrogen is destroyed you know not just your gains but the way you feel mentally I mean if your estrogen is through the bin your energy is gonna be through the floor you you're gonna feel very very low and guess what you're training performance will in the bin you've made a fantastic point here with EQ this is why I'm not that much of a fan of it because I have seen it crush people estrogen especially recently this trends that go around right and in UK I think recently quite a lot of people have been taking EQ again and I have had two colections we have two colections we have two colections we have the estrogen like not existing and they were taken a little bit more EQ than the test so great point you've made Scott if you are going to do test any Q make sure your test is higher than EQ initially and guess what even if you are higher on a tizer trust me EQ will pull it down heavily so just add on the side of caution if you are going to use it personally I'll hold my hand up I don't have that much experience with EQ because that's one drug I cannot tolerate so I don't take it oh that's right yeah whenever whenever I have had a client's run it though it's always been a very low dose and it's been effective at a low dose but it has always been combined where it's slightly higher testosterone dose and that has only been with clients like you that know they really get on well with EQ and guess what they have no issues with a chromatic grip if I have a client that has issue a chromatic grip and high lip pressure EQ and DACA is off the table but yeah yeah and I you know I think I intuitively kind of fixed it I mean my my peak dosing was around like 1.25 grams test maybe 1.3 along with 800 EQ and then I would also cycle in debol and I think that would get it between the higher test and the debol I kind of was worried needed to be to make the days I needed but you know that is very very small very very small I didn't get it you know all you know all I didn't want listen to this generally guys I've actually spoke to the past moments if they actually did that that would have looked at the saved them yeah because yeah I've actually had a few guys that got himself in a real-a-pop position with you know really bad way like a streamer low mood soar young you know all the usual signs of extreme low estrogen and really itchis skin as well I'm not sure they get worse than I think like really dry dry elbows dry knees itchis skin it each is scalp as well but mate that is so small because debol would have given you that kick of estrogen pretty straight away right yeah yeah I've even seen the set of one-lost people people need to people need to pay you people need to pay you into patron here getting this info here because this is gonna probably save people cycles you know thank you Kuba we had one guy who commented in the past that he deemed me he said he had used actual exogenous estrogen his cycles because he didn't aromatize and I mentioned that and a couple other people said they've done that too I can't believe that you know what it if it works you need a good amount of estrogen to feel good you really do I think it's a fun balance those go because I've utilized in the past year with how to educate as promo extreme high estrogen it's like no you don't need extreme high estrogen you need just a lot of that estrogen where you feel good not everyone's gonna feel the same having the estrogen really wild yes I feel good well my estrogen say not 200 but scar guess what scar my feel like it's still saying that yeah you might get kind of and it feel like a waltful flow so yeah definitely no so what about so in this topic then what about we're doing oral's playing because obviously oral's are gonna affect our health and a number of fashions what about considering oral's when it comes to labs I'll be honest man I haven't seen oral's really play that much of a havoc on blood work especially when it's used that a low dose for not a long period of time I will I will admit those scar I never use oral's in offseason and general what the the only way out of use oral's in offseason I consider it is the way you've just mentioned with debol trying to save somebody estrogen right so if someone next time somebody comes to me and the the real in a bad way I'll probably suggest doing that to get them back you try it it would be a low dose you wouldn't be a lot you know and general you're pulling it for a couple of weeks and you're a bit sweet but generally offseason I never use oral's because I can't eat and I've noticed that with all clients as well if you cannot eat you're not gonna grow but with all else I think always air in the side caution because with some people that I do notice that LDL does tend to come up quite hard using orals and hdl gets caught in half instantly and let's face it most guys using antibiotics you hdl's already gonna be low right yeah so if you can keep and save orals for special timing prep definitely do so and I'm not sure what you'll take on it is but my favorite and I would argue the safest order is probably probably out of our if you can get me a lot of our yeah I like it it covers a good compound and yeah I like I will admit though I will admit a low dose of anodrol works in kind of the well as well Dave loves anodrol too I would say contest phase if I had one to pick it would be wind stroke wind stroke would be my go to for the last three weeks four weeks of a show something like that you know I've actually consulted a guy he I'm not gonna say his name I would never do that but he's a a fetish strong American bodybuilder is healed as well big boy and he actually the low dose of wind stroke and anodrol together real anodrol just a training days okay is this during a diet phase or during growth yeah yeah that's just that's just anodrol okay got you okay got you know I'll never try that and I would be keen on trying that this year I'm not gonna lie okay I found with anodrol it's the same with super draw for me in a diet phase where it's like the timing like it's it I look fuller you know guy looks better and then he doesn't you know and I mean and it's like a little bit too much sorry yeah yeah yeah fuller of that I've been all of a sort of you look a little bit like mental kind of melted candle the only reason I think he can get away with his because when he adds it in his glutes already inside out so when you are that lean when you are that lean I think a little bit of anodrol it's just gonna give you that extra bit of pop and fullness it's definitely Jay-Cutler's Jay-Cutler's most favorite favorite star anodrol fair few times on podcasts and I'm pretty sure I mentioned take yep and you know you know it's like a lot of the old school guys always say that they used very low anabolic and him and me also was talking in one of the cutler casts and Jay said that he used 200 milligrams of anodrol at one point and listen you can actually find that and if I was if I had enough time at hands I'd put the fire in the podcast but I'm pretty sure that he said he tried that and that would not surprise me how big and bubbly it was in prep the only way you could retain that which for this when you die it's said is we've had our drill let me tell you yeah yeah yeah yeah I'd experimented with anodrol in a few different scenarios including like just on a certain body part day you pre-work out you know that type of thing and I never found like massive benefits but that leading right in you're right like if the guys are already completely peeled I'm trying to think is there anything else that we should consider on this topic before we move down because I know we had some listener questions as well I think we've we've blessed that this throw throw to be honest it's super simple I mean if people in recap they kind of wish we wind it blood work will definitely give you an accurate gauge of your testosterone dose in and fire I do sing so just be mindful of that guys if you are struggling to pinpoint what kind of side effects you're feeling the safest that is always to do blood work would you release it? Oh absolutely there's no question about it I actually do my blood work ever six ever six weeks you around you know what Dave's mentioned that he said that you are extremely vigilant with your labs that's something that you always pay really close attention to. massive shout out to Eva they have been a godsend I actually got my 20 of blood work from Dave the other week so. No kidding yeah 20 of 20 of self-blots. Alright so we do have some listener questions guys leave us questions for the next show and let's see how about I liked this one a lot. Cuba I might be asking too much of you to give away too much coaching advice my question is after certain point it's tough to to progress on the logbook for me being older getting stronger is possible for some exercises but tough. I'm sure at your level it's also tough but more possible with increasing PEDs and Balkan. So do you like so do you let me say it this way? So do you do a meso cycle and start lighter and slowly increasing the weights in reps so forth I guess he's asking how do you how do you continue getting stronger as I got an older person with the topic I got it. I got an amazing question massive massive props to this guy because he clearly is a thinking thinking man's bodybuilder the way our structure this is this. A huge mistake people make going to a training block. Meso cycle by the ice cart is a turn for just a training block so when I structure my training that meso cycle or a training block is going to be my weeks of training after a deal out right you will need to take a deal out every six to 10 weeks some people don't believe in the allowed there are the people that do not train hard enough I'll just say that outright. If you train hard enough you will need a break over time even physically or mentally especially when you are actively trying to progress your lifts you will need a period of a time where you need to scale back back to the point. In this case, do you load his done you've got your first week of training so we can number one of the training cycle, meso cycle whatever the fuck you want to call it the cool kids the nerds call it meso cycle Agustrated I just call it a training block. First two weeks I would always reset my loading and I would always make a point of not even attempting any of the repetitions that are not there so I'm not training with reps in reserve so it speaks got because I never really want to call it reps in reserve. I'm training with a calm and calculated approach where I'm not leaving reps in a tank but I'm also not taking any risk of reps or not taking any extremely hard grinder reps. Yeah okay. Now guess what the first two to three weeks when you enter a training block and you have new movements the first adaptation that happens is neurological adaptation so your body gets better at the skill of the exercise your body gets better actually performing the movements so the progression within those exercises is almost gifted to you it comes super easy so the first two to three weeks you do not need to actually push all that hard to see meaningful progression session however if you go into your first two weeks of training after a break after the deal out when you are detrained people often forget that when you enter a training block meso cycle whatever you want to call it after a period away from training you are detrained you need time to warm up your body and I actually call it warming up the oven before I start cooking that's you're out of your team. It's true you need the first two weeks to set baseline numbers across all of your sessions and then you progressively aim to progress your load and reps. It's going to get to a point where progression is going to much harder to come by because the first adaptation you have is neurological then one shoe adapted and once you are skillful at these exercises that is when the jumps in progression are much slower all the jumps in progression thereafter that is going to be a byproduct of adaptation where you actually grow muscle tissue. This process happens much quicker with some people and it's a process that actually happens much slower in others so you have to be extremely patient with your progressions some weeks guess what you might be training for two or three weeks and you might not see any progression and some weeks you might only be able to add one kilo to the bar or add one repetition to that same load so you have to be mindful of that and you have to really take your time coming up and progressing your little steadily and be calculated with how the progression lifts. My advice is being patient taking small micro-progressions for that train cycle then when you enter your peak that is when you start to really ramp up your intensity and try to push the envelope for the last three to four weeks of the training block before you then de-load. When you de-load you look through your training you look at any exercises that are harder to come by progression any exercises that you feel like have stalled and then you start on your training block and then you start that over and over again and that is always the best way to go in the best way to approach it to be able to maximize that training cycle for you. I've just finished my time, Jen Scott. Good, my internet went out on back. Amazing. Well it's a continuous record inside it's not my time, Jen. Anyway, I've covered the question in detail. Good, excellent. We've got another one then and then I got a question for you too. First of all Bobby says massive. So we saw so many people at the end of the last episode so could you were like, comment massive if you watched the whole thing. Legend, it's a commented massive. That's where Bobby started. Amazing. And he says have either of you experienced depression with running trend. Listen, and this is me real speaking from a place of how a man experience and stupidity. I started anabolic spallium, right? I was listening, I was in my teens when I started, I was 18, 17, 18, right? When I started dabbling. I think you can get a depression from anabolic use in general. I really do and it's something that was spoke about earlier but I can actually speak from my own experience when I was a teenager, I felt like I was depressed very often. And it was a combination of anabolic's, my environment, the way I live my life, my routine and how immature actually it was back then. Yeah, yeah. I think anabolic enhanced all of these feelings. You have to remember if you are inclined to feel a certain way, if you already have a predisposition to be aggressive, what do you think anabolic's will do? They will make you more aggressive. If you have predisposition to potentially have depression, I think anabolic's will enhance that massively. So, if you are a male or female, consider your anabolic's. I urge you to work on yourself and I urge you to really make sure that your mental health is on point because anabolic's will have an impact on your mental health. You will experience a massive high and then a massive low and then there are a lot of the rollercoaster of emotions that you will experience is huge and as a young man, I could not handle that because I wasn't much or enough and I didn't have the right environment that right people around me to guide me and educate me on how to handle my emotions and how to even think straight. I looked the hard way, I looked the hard way and I wouldn't change it because it's maybe the person there on today and it's made me a happy man and effective man, a focus man but it was a harsh experience back in the day. I'll be honest and you know what? You know what kept me going? The look for the sport is like I loved it so fucking much. No matter how shit I felt, I just continued on the path. Yeah, I think you nailed it man. It really does magnify gear, magnifies what's already going on and I had I'd say less favorable experience the first time I used to try and compare to later. Later I feel like I had things more figured out with my life, meaning like everything was better. My balance was better everything and I think that that made a critical difference. It also made a difference in how I chose to do. Now that's not true. I did run trend pretty high at one point and it really wasn't an issue but it really was based off of where I was. I think that that kind of thing can change from even year to year cycle to cycle. If Cuba came to me and you were like hey I just went through a divorce and this is what I've always done and I want to hit it hard and get back at my life by getting jacked. You know trend might have a different literally it might affect you differently now than it did two years ago when everything was like cool and calm you know. Do you know what's changed as of light as well? What's that? Everywhere you look, you everywhere you look, you have negativity. Everywhere you look, you have people, you have people spreading, even anything that's happening in the world that isn't positive or you have news that are extremely negative. Like at least that everywhere you look, YouTube, Instagram, it's all riddled with negativity and I think that's the biggest difference as of light. I think back then nothing really affected us because we didn't have this and all these platforms that are just riddled with people that are just saying it lightly, shitbox you know. Yeah and you know what, too it's easy to get sucked into that stuff right? You know, there's channels, those channels do the best on YouTube if we could they do but yeah it's the same. They do. I know it's not going to serve us and if somebody's this far into this podcast they think they already know that you know what I mean? Yeah absolutely, absolutely and listen you've got to have some integrity you've got to have some on it you've got respect. These channels might do well, yes but they're not respected and people might you look at it as entertainment but nobody's going to take these people seriously. That's true. That's true. Hey I got one more question for you. I haven't talked to you in a minute. How is the diet going? How's your prep going? Absolutely fantastic actually. Two, six, three, this morning. Nice. Okay. Conditions, conditions pretty good. I am definitely getting leaner. You can tell that the face isn't as bad. So it's definitely coming through very, very well. The cycle is moderate, it's not high. We don't have the source is stuffing yet. With only just added collumutral in this week. Okay. So it's all going to get. So I'm going to be fun. I'm aiming to take off a lot of more body weight of the next four weeks, get we've been striking this dance and then it gives me like 12 weeks of around a pound. A pound maybe a little bit less to drop to be stage ready. So my goal is to make sure that now we'll have a high rate of loss then we'll pull back and cruise into the show with a very, small rate of loss. And that's something that I like to do with a lot of my guys and girls, especially doing longer prep. That's all purpose of it along the prep, right? You can get bulk of you worked on initially where you are fresher and you have more body fat. It's much harder to lose muscle when it's actually the easier to lose muscle is when you get leaner. So the whole idea of it is the last 10 to 12 weeks. If you only lose it a pound a week, the likelihood of you losing it a muscle is slim because you are giving yourself times where you can refeed, you can have dealers, you can have diet breaks and times where you actively reset. So that's the plan. I'll be keeping up with the look will be much better this year. I'm going to look less like a swimmer. And that's always a success, right? Progression is always the goal man. I love it man. That's freaking awesome. And what do you have going on on YouTube and everything else right now? Stuff that everybody else should be tuning into over there. I'm cranking out a lot of content actually. I'm doing 3 videos a week at the moment and it's one vlog and then 3 videos. Okay? 3 videos a week. So for me that's a lot. 3 videos a week and then I'm posting shorts like free shorts on a daily basis as well. So if you are looking for training content, educational content, it's all going to be in YouTube. However, no podcast on my YouTube, just a training content and vlogs. Podcasts is here and I train my VIP with Jordan as well. So you don't see me anywhere else apart from mostly here and with Jordan at once someone for as well. Hell yeah. We got to get you over for you all if you're doing. Yeah, I should be free and choose they so I think we'll have a laugh on there. All right cool cool. All right guys if you've made it, if you've made it to this point, what do you think this should come and Scott? It was massive last time. I don't know, Cuba you nailed it with the word. What you got? What you're wondering? What you're wondering? Harder. Harder. Come in hard. If you've made it to this point, you are hard. So you've got to come in hard. So get it. Cool. Cuba. Thank you as always, man. People have been freaking loving this show and I think that they're really connecting to your message and what you're doing. All right, look at all the other, the other, the other, the other, the other, the other, the other, the other, the other, the other, the other, the other, the other. Absolutely. I remember we've got prawns, wild salmon, spinach, peppers, mushroom and pineapple with 10 grams of sweet papy sauce for a flavour. All right guys, we appreciate you tuning in. We'll see you soon. Guys, thank you so much, Thick Cat.

of my point of bringing this topic up to the, you know, for the listeners is, there isn't really any right or wrong. There's, there's the fact that you should be able to justify the sequence that you have your exercises. And if you can justify them, then there you go. That's great. If you can't, and it's just entirely random, look for the reasons and think more deeply into why you have the sequence you do, because you may be able to optimize that, that workout based on the sequence of the exercises better than you are. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear. Of course I'm here with Coach's Skip Hill and Andrew Barry. Skip's got like 20 years experience. Andrew is at 14 years experience coaching. I'm just behind him. So we're here today, guys, to help you do better at the sport that we love and try not to make a lot of the mistakes. We made in the process, you know, mistakes we see people make. All of our programming is brought to you by Truent Nutrition dot com. You can use their code. Think for some additional savings. Pack Wally supplements hit me up if you want to talk to me about flavors, anything like that. If you're in Canada, check out supplement source dot C.A. Lots of great deals over there. And thank you to everybody who is supporting our programming over on Patreon. You guys are awesome. I've been trying to put up some bonus features over there. So if you're on Patreon, make sure you log in once in a while and check that out. Today we're going to go to topic. We're going to talk about picking our exercises exercise sequence. Why we put the exercises where we put them. Andrew, then, which I'm really excited for this. He has a story for us about his terrible weekend traveling with his wife for bodybuilding. I have no idea, but I have these pictures on my phone. I'm supposed to be sharing with you guys about the hotel room and stuff. And then we're going to take some listener questions. So anyway, what's going on guys. Oh, in congratulations to you skip for another. Another first call out finished with many Rodriguez. So it was fucking awesome. Yeah, very cool. Appreciate that. Looking forward to the next couple shows. I do want to say to Matt, your sharp, my client. Mike, just to make you feel like an asshole. Because I know it again. This is a Christmas coffee cup, but the reason I use it is too full. Number number one, it's very, very large. I can put a couple cups in it. Number two, it was given to my wife. When her grandmother died passed away about nine years ago and since then, my wife has kept it and she rarely uses it. And when I use it, I'm supposed to be very, very careful with it because it has such a kind of nostalgic and sentimental thing. So the coffee cup does suck Matthew. Thanks. I appreciate that. All right, we got that important stuff out of the way before we got into body building. Exactly. So where do we want to start with this kit? We're talking about exercise sequence. We're talking about why it is. And it's going to be an individual thing. But if we learned over the years and what if we learned from others, as far as where we place our exercises, I want to let you lead this thing up. Yeah, I just kind of think sometimes the basic or rudimentary things that go into our own training. We just assume that everybody else does. Like something like exercise sequence, like why for triceps, do you do you open with, you know, this particular exercise. Maybe not even specific exercise, but this type of an exercise, and then go into this type of exercise file by this type of exercise. So there very few people are very few people who have trained for a long time are entirely random. It may seem like things are changing, and rep tempos, and rep ranges and exercises. But even when I speak for myself, you will want to change and exercise. There's still these parameters that I'm staying in, whether consciously or subconsciously. And there's a fine balance between you want to change things to create a different stimulus. But at the same time, you know the things that work for you and you know the things that may cause a situation or a workout to become morrisky. I guess it is a good not, and it's not just about risk. I don't bring this topic up just for risk, but for efficiency and optimization and things like that. And I think there are people that just don't even think they're just kind of randomly, well, fuck it, today I'll do this or that and there's nothing wrong with that. When I was younger, I could randomly throw shit around and exercises and it's no big deal. But I think my point is just that there is a method to the madness with things that seem so basic, like sequence. So I wondered what you guys did to kind of contrast against what I do with my and, and we could give some examples and maybe those, you know, people thinking, okay, well, I don't give that much, you know, that much thought or maybe even I'm over thinking it and I'm being too rigid with what I'm doing. All right, so who's starting? Well, let me in the brought up the idea, going with which muscle group, it's almost like grab one like, you know, it doesn't matter really. Well, let me ask you this though, because this actually pertains to that, you know, like which muscle group are we talking about. And I know we've talked about it once or twice before, do you guys train, say you're back differently than you train your chest versus how you train your legs in terms of Rep execution, Rep ranges, volume of exercises, all that stuff. That's my question, do you? I think it's a good way to kick it off honestly. That's a good question. It was something we just talked about with Dusty, Dusty obviously does, right? He's got the much higher, much more control on his leg training and then more ballistic crazy stuff with fact just all out. So where are you at with that skip? I know I do. I use an example, you know, speaking to Dusty, this is a pretty good, you know, legs being won. Even before my injuries, my legs can't handle the volume that, say back or shoulders can handle. And literally, fucking destroy my, and be crippled sore in like half the volume of four legs or specifically, I guess, or quads, if we're talking, then I can for other. I mean, crippled like if I tried to keep the volume and the intensity that I would normally have on, you know, I guess my intensity level that I want to maintain. Crippled sore and that will have me overtrain in fuck four weeks. And when I say overtrain, not just, you know, I'm not talking really even ace and pays a buck progression just goes, it literally goes into toilet. I run out of gas, I'll find myself halfway through a set of legs and just like all the, you know, that feeling of fatigue where you're going along like, oh, this is smooth. And then they just one rep just starts to crawl, and you're like, and maybe you can get three more, but it's crawling, you're like, could, could my body just get to failure, because this is horrible. Like I can get another rep, I don't want to get another fucking rap, just fail for Christ's sake. So there isn't much. I'm being long-winded about it. The point is, that's a good example there of something that is different explosive movements versus, you know, some, some muscle groups may be more, I call it stretch and feel or stretch and squeeze. So I know I do, I don't train them radically different, like I'm not going to do high intensity drop sets and stuff like that for a muscle for one muscle group versus another. I don't have this dramatic contrast, but there are changes. I am really animated today, and I think it's because I'm drinking all this coffee. It's good. People like you that way, skip, they do. You guys, that's a big ass cup, too. It's like a damn right. It's a huge cup of coffee. All right. Well, if nobody's going to put it on the table, I'm going to save this that going back to like 2008, 2008, 2008, looking at the message board in reading what John Meadows had to say, I started looking at the principles of mountain dog at that time. And it made a lot of sense to me to first find your next exercise that I could use to kind of warm up all the tissues, basically getting like getting blood flow, getting good activation. And kind of that first exercise allows me to kind of feel like what's going on in my body. And then from there, picking something where I can, I'm warmed up now, and I can work into that heavy meat and potatoes and people hear me say that term. I know a lot of people use it, but like if you're my client, I say meat and potatoes like any time we're talking about training like every time that term comes out, me potatoes. Getting to that heavy meat and potato stuff. So if it were back, I would probably get into a row after a pull down. If it were chest, I would probably get into my dumbbell and climb press after doing a fly. You know, something where I can get that muscle warmed up then going to something that is going to be like really central nervous system taxing something where I can, this is the, this is the movement where we are going to grow. And then after that my next exercise, I'm picking something where I'm not as concerned about pushing that heavy weight, but I still want to challenge myself now I'm using more control though. And now I'm, I'm really making sure that I can, I can finish that extra finish that muscle off. So maybe I go to a machine where I don't have to stabilize anymore. And then from there finally final component would be some type of a stretch or sometimes that stretch would be combined with that third exercise and then from there I'm good. That's, that's the way I would personally, if I had to like just sum it all up, I learned that from John's really early stuff. And then I've just kind of, I've kept it in the back of my head because it's made so much sense in it's kept me from getting hurt and then I've applied that to all my workouts since really honestly. The only thing I'll say John would differ on the first exercise like he would never do a stretch exercise first. No, I wouldn't even give him what I'm saying. What you said you did to the flies first. Oh, okay. Yeah, I guess I would. But you know what though I'm not focusing on the stretches much as the fact that like, okay, like a, like a pack deck. Like a pack deck would be my ideal my ideal or a cable fly. What about a cable fly? I like that it's. So, yeah. So, let me give you the breakdown. Let me break down on like a chest training for like a mountain dug workout, right? Yeah, because you're, you're pretty much right about all of it. But so the first exercise is going to be that pre-appropriation, activation exercise and it's going to be typically something like an inclined dumbbell press, a barbell press or sorry inclined or flat dumbbell press. Okay. Well, idea here. Rarely are you ever seeing guys, Karen Pecks doing a dumbbell exercise, right? Just because of the different range of motion, how you can twist your wrists, et cetera. Yeah. So, and you're going to go heavy on that. Like you're probably going to work up to a top set of eight somewhere in that range. Sometimes a backed off set. And then the second exercise is going to be like your high threshold motor unit stuff where you're going to be doing speed. Like an inclined barbell press sets of six to eight, almost as fast as you can under control. And then your third exercise is typically going to be something that's really just going to pump you up. So the weight isn't the overall factor there. It's like you're going to use a cluster set technique or a rest pause or drop set or some other type of technique that's just going to like drive. Not just mechanical tension, but also metabolic failure too. And then finally the fourth exercise is going to be your stretching exercise. And then the muscles is loaded with blood as a possibly can be then you're going to lengthen stretch everything back out with a fly or a cable or something of that nature. So, right. And that's actually not my favorite way to train to tell you the truth. And then let me say to the idea, I will do one point out when I say that. Like I said, it's not that I'm trying to do what John did as much as it was my interpretation in 2008. And at the time, like then later I actually did like real mountain dog and it was different. Like my interpretation was different than what he did. But I had that in the back of my head and that's what I've employed ever since. You know what I mean? That's what my thought process is. Part of it is a little bit different because part of that for me is also going to be like the prefeteague. I feel like prefeteague in chest particularly works really well for me. I like I like that. So that's and I don't focus as much on the stretch in that first pack deck movement. I'll stop you. I'll stop you. Okay, but then at the end if I'm going to do it then I will. Like I might even do like a DC type dumbbell stretch like dumbbell fly type stretch at the end of the workout. You know, would you guys agree that doing going right into like chest exercise going into like a stretching exercise like a dumbbell fly. We can climb dumbbell fly might be on a more dangerous end of the scale. No question. I wouldn't want to. I do. Yeah. Right. Like if you're going to get away with it. Yeah. Yeah. You can get away with it. But as far as now, if you're going into that first exercise and it's more of a stretch and feel on your stay and higher reps. And you have no like you're not looking for progression and really banging the shit out of the set then I guess maybe. I'm not fucking with that. But I will open with cable flies. But I don't exaggerate the stretch and they came up. They're not short. No one would look at him go. Don't suck. It's not an exaggerated. I call it open or really wide. You know, range of motions. Most cable flies only allow you kind of to do more like a like a like a press fly combo really if you think about it. You know, the new one very rare. I go old school with the wide ones. Basically, there's a thing. I use the tricep press down machines that everybody uses instead of the cable cross. I always find this is funny. On those lap pole, you know, systems there to get the cable cross in the middle. You got to try set. Makes no one uses a tricep press down on the end. They have to do it with the double pulley because the stack is so much bigger. It's hard to get only. It's heavy. There's only two pulleys and six that are on the other one. You can't get up with that. 20 plates. Exactly. But I don't like those narrow machines that they have these days that are set up specific. I understand why they're there and they're good because people tend to only do cable or do basically isolateral at the same time. So then I get even more irritated when people go to that and they do single arm tricep press down. It's because and this is why it's not. I don't give a fuck about whether you need more weight on the stat. But what you what it does over time is it creates drag on one side versus the other. It does. And especially in gyms where they're not maintained. So that's one other reason that I carry a bottle of silicone spray in my. What's the other reason? Yeah, they say one reason. It's not appropriate for a. But then that way the drag remains the same. But I'd always go wide and I have my clients in the same thing. It's funny because usually after weight for somebody who's doing some cable curl or some bullshit to be actually moving away. But anyway, I digress. I did want to point out this though when it comes to backers we're using chest and as an example. Your sequence will change obviously to base not just on vulnerability or risk injury, but it can change on. Especially when it comes to back training. Are you lat down in it or are you upper back down in it? And these days, man, I think you guys would agree. I don't think I've seen too many people. It happens. But the large majority of people are not lat down in it. And once you get that thickness through the upper back, we're actually fighting with this a little bit with manny. He has we need to bring his lat development up to match the thickness and the size through the upper back. Once you get that upper back thickness and strength, it's very difficult to actually. And I use the word isolate. We know we're not isolating, but for your terms, so we understand what we're doing. To focus more in isolate on the lower on those lats, almost at low rats. But anyway, I'm using labels that everybody. It's okay. It's okay. I'll say that's difficult. Okay, friend of. It's difficult to do that when you had it much like, um, you know, hitting in like upper chest or chest in general. If you have very strong anterior delts early on when guys are very, very strong. We had a buddy in high school who was like, this he could not build his chest for shit and really struggle with because his shoulders were so dominant. In the 1980, he could no walk in and grab a, you know, 135 and start pressing it overhead. He would do it just to be a dick. So the guys are like, uh, that kids like 15 years old with the fight. But he had a paper thin chest. And I don't mean that shitty because if he heard me say that, he would be offended by it even at 52 years old. But a bother to him and he was young and it probably still bothers into this day. The point is, is when you, then that will change the sequence of exercises too. You know, with manny, we're going to dig in. I'm actually going to go down there. He didn't know yet. But I'm going to go down there and I'm going to work. Back sessions with him and Miami. It's not once a week, once every couple weeks to really get him to, to force him to dig into and focus more. It doesn't mean that he doesn't know how to train back. That's not the point. The guys very smart and he trains very hard. But he's old school and he's moving weight. And I need to slow him down and we're going to open back sessions at least every other back session with more isolated. The last movement's to really get in there and dig into the lats and then move on to other shifts. Big shit, right? I'm not on shit. That kind of gets to what I was kind of referring to about the way you train a particular, like Mousa Group. Because I think, I feel like I'm more like manny where I need to get away or I have gotten away from, you know, like, okay, you've seen someone do a dumbbell row where they're using excessive body English. Well, to say the least, right? The whole body's moving. Pretty much every year. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So, whereas, like, I've tried to make that exercise so, so hard on myself with, like, putting the front leg forward. And it's so hard to, trying to, like, make it a lot harder, right? Because you're not able to open up with the hips and get that torso rotation. Yeah. I've tried to do, like, change my exercise selection away from exercise up, would have done 10 years ago, but I would consider today more like pussy exercises or stretch and squeeze or, you know what I mean? Where I'm really slowing the rub down. I'm really trying to, like, track my elbow and I might look like I'm using the same weight as the high school kid, that, you know, jumped off the machine before me, but I'm feeling it more in my lats. I'm feeling it more in my wrong body to where I'm, wherever I'm trying to feel it versus just moving dumbbell or barbell from point A to point B. Whereas, like, I would open up with, like, a chest exercise on, like, an incline Smith press and just bang up to, like, a heavy set of six to eight and be great with that. And for, and be able to progress with it, whereas I'm not necessarily looking for strength progression in my back exercises. I'm looking more for, and my feeling that hitting the target tissue, I'm really trying to hit. Yeah. Okay. So, so, late on us, what's the rest of your, your, say, general philosophy, then, my general philosophy? Yeah, as far as how would you, putting, putting workouts together? So, again, like, it comes back to, like, I would program my chest differently than I program my back. So, to give you an example, like, we train back today. And I'm on this kick right now where we're starting every single workout off with pull ups. And I do pull ups with the band. And I know people are like, oh, you know, it looks supposed to you're taking easy way out. No, I'm doing that. So, I stay straight up and down. So, my body's not going like this. And I'm doing more of like a row than a pull up. I'm doing a true straight up and down pull up. And when I feel like my feet are coming up like this, I'm trying to cheat the sets done. Even if I feel like I can get two more reps out of it. So, I'm going to, what I would consider positive failure. And then from there, we moved on to a single arm pull down on an angle. And again, like I was just mentioning, really tracking that elbow where I'm trying to drive that elbow into my hip. And if I feel like I'm coming out or I'm, or I'm just moving the handle, I stop the set. So, I really want to feel every single, every single rep from the stretch all the way down to the contraction to where it almost feels like a knot in your lower lap. That's what we're working on. And then from there, we move on to rows. Can we do a T-bar row today? That's what that's an exercise I try to progress on. I really like a wide grip T-bar row. It's one of my favorites. I think skip you eight those, right? No, I love one of my favorites. Well, how wide are you talking? I mean, you said wide. Like outside a shoulder width. If it's outside a shoulder width, I think it's a money. If it gets too wide, I'm not a big, I'm super wide. But I don't like gentle. I don't like narrow rows too much. It's not a matter of being a... Yeah. No. Ranger. I don't feel any other exercise in my terries more so than, then, like a wider grip T-bar row. And then from there, it's onto another machine row. This is like one of the hardest machines. You put a plate on there and it feels like three or four plates on a different machine. It's hard to describe. I'll take a picture for you guys sometime. I can't remember the brand name. It's one of those things I've only seen in our gym and I think in Jim Manions, Jim down, in Pittsburgh. But it's super, super heavy. It's one of those... Trying to think of the term, like, you know, like there's feel good machines. Like hammer strength machines where you can put five plates on your head. You're really only a few plate benches, but you got kids doing five plates on it. This is the opposite of that. If you can roll like five plates on a different machine, like that particular hammer machine that every Jim has where you can load five or six plates on, this one is like a one and a half plate type machine. And it's super difficult. It locks right in. If you drive your elbow just right, you can get right to that ladder area. And then we actually... Then I'll add in... We'll do something for lower back. And lately I've been on the kick of adding my least favorite exercise, our deals in. And so I'm going to... I'm going back to those. I'm trying to progress on those again. So, why do you put those at the end? Safety. Because I'm probably going to be weaker towards the end of the workout, right? But I'm also going to be locked in and focused. Like, I'm going to know what is hurt, what is felt good today. So I'm going to know, A is it even a good idea to do this exercise? Yeah. Because if I'm walking around, my lower back is like, man, just bent on a pickup with my Jim bag. I'm having trouble doing that. It makes no sense to go into an exercise that's going to be dominant on your lower back, right? Yeah. So I like to save stuff like that for the end. And then also just, you know, who wants to walk around with the lower back on Father doing all the other stuff. Oh, yeah. It's limiting. You know, try to do a barbell row after you know. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, back in the day, when I was in high school, you know, it's back day. You start off with a lap hold down, but then you go right to deadless, right? And then after you get done deadless, going up to whatever, then you do your barbell rows, which is like the stupidest, craziest thing in the world. And then you do your double row. I love that you're saying that because so many people will open with, and it's funny to me because you're saying, and I'm not saying it's wrong. There really is nothing, there's nothing wrong if you have reason as to why you're doing it. But in my mind, I struggle with you're going to go to such a big exercise for back that causes all of the major muscles in the back to be stabilizers first. And then you want to work them through a full range of motion. And you think that that's going to be maximal, pounded your strength and contraction. It just seems so illogical to me to do it that way. But again, it's not right or wrong. It's just how my brain processes it. I would rather use much like you're doing with RDS. All the muscles of the back that you've already worked through a full range of motion, then become stabilizers during the RDS while you're then taking your lower back that has now been pretty damn warmed up through out as far as blood flow. And you might have already done them using the example, but long pulley rows. There's something where your lower back has to, your right, you have to stabilize and they're kind of warm to come into those heavier RDS weights where you're in more of a vulnerable position. I love that there's in I'm not surprised, but I love that there's that logic. And so this, I guess this is what I'm saying, or my point of bringing this topic up to the, you know, for the listeners is, there isn't really any right or wrong. There's, there's the fact that you should be able to justify the sequence that you have your exercise. And if you can justify them, then there you go. That's great. If you can't, and it's just entirely random. Look for the reasons and think more deeply into why you have the sequence you do, because you may be able to optimize that, that workout based on the sequence of the exercises better than you are. Hell yeah, I think that's a great way to wrap this topic up. Plus I want to move on because we get to hear some shit that I don't know about yet. Andrew, what's, what's, what's the deal? What's the deal? So, so look, this is all I know guys. I, I, I, we, you know, we have like a group chat, skip in Andrew and I, you know, text. And I was like, how is the weekend? He was like terrible. It was really bad. And he was like, I'll tell you guys on Wednesday when we record. So that's all I know. And I didn't get a lot of sleep last night because I knew that today we're going to tell me and I've been distracted at work. And now we're here. So what, what happened? All right. So why were you traveling for the first time? All right. No disrespect to anyone that lives in the state of Louisiana, particularly three four. Okay. I'm sure you guys are great people. I'm sure you guys are nice people. All right. So we booked a trip down to three port for the awesome classic Rachel. The wife was going to do another bikini show. And for those of you don't know, she's a pro. So we were going down there and we do another pro show. We thought the New York pro was going on the same weekend. So as was the thing is called the night of champions in California. Yeah. So that's three pro shows in one day. So we're like, okay. Was it night of challenge? Is it going to stick with up? Is that what they call it now? Night of champions? Because what didn't New York, I know that. That's the B night of champions. Yes. Okay. Yes. I think it was called, maybe the amateur portion was called night of champions. Okay. Either way, it was out in California. So we're like, okay. Most of the west coast towns going to be out there. With the New York pro going on at the same time. You're going to get all the top Olympians over here. So we're going to get on the street fort. Maybe we're going to steal a few points. We're going to move up the ladder a little bit. Because there was only one other girl that had beaten Rachel so far. Doing the show. And coincidentally, they've done the four show. This was their four show together this year. And she's been doing it up winning. Rachel's been doing good. She's going to make two first call outs. Yeah. We were right there. We were listening to the feedback from the judges. Just come a little bit tighter in the glutes, which is exactly what we did. She was about a pound and a half lighter. Exactly what they had asked for. Okay. So we go to street fort. We're not being cocky. I don't want to make us sound like we're being cocky, but knowing what we had seen play out over the previous three contests. We were like, okay, I think we got a really good shot. Move it up the ladder. Maybe a second. Maybe a third. We got third call outs. Oh, like, when I'm sitting here, and I've never been so confused in my life, guys. The only thing that was off was her tan, but it wasn't great. But like, we saw girls and no disrespect to masters, competitors, because I'm a masters competitor, right? We have both of you guys are masters competitors at this point. There were masters competitors that were getting fourth call outs at shows when she was getting first call outs just four weeks ago that were placed in the first and second call out. So like, that in girls that she was just beating that were in like third and fourth call outs. Like, they were placed in the first or second call out. And I just kept on listening to numbers get called and like, it's just so disheartening when you're like, wait a minute, we're on the right track, we're on the right track, and then all of a sudden it just stops you in your tracks. Who is that judge for this one? Gary, you did. Was Gary, was it's Gary or Sandy at the other ones? Or? So we've been in front of Sandy, we've been in front of Joe Pashulov, we've been in front of, uh, uh, tray, uh, tray Bennett, um, been in front of Steve, been in front of Tyler. So we've been in front of all the judges, and you know, we put a little bit more stock into a Joe's feedback, um, Sandy's feedback, Steve obviously, Tyler, obviously, I don't know what that happened to the show. I had messaged another judge after pre-judging, I was like, hey, you know, what's going on here? Like, you're just not like her today or what? He told me he had her in the first call out, but he's not the head judge. He has no idea what the hell's going on there. But anyway, that's the show. So the whole reason we went down there was like, oh, sorry, like, which, you don't plot foiled. You know what, too, I'll throw in is that I think sometimes people who don't know how things work at the pro level. Like what we're talking about here is that, you know, there's going to be different judges at different shows. And part of our strategies in bringing a client into a show like that is going to be because you know, some of these people are going to want a slightly different look or at least historically that's what it's thought. You know, Sandy wants this alert versus, you know, Steve wants this look. And so, you know, you don't always hear that, so that aspect. So I think that's kind of interesting to share that with the audience, you know? Well, it's just weird when like two weeks ago and four weeks ago, you beat all these girls and then all of a sudden you get relegated to like literally like the last call out when it's like, wait a minute. We're not on a trajectory up here. We look better today like, I'm not taking anything from the way from these girls, but I'm pretty good at analyzing the point where we're going to win the show absolutely not. Okay, the girl that won absolutely deserve to win. Okay. In my mind, we should have been in that second, third, fourth place, at least for that comparison. Okay. But that's, you know, that's an option about the show. Sure. Sure. Sure. Sure. Sure. Sure. Obviously, I'm going to be a little bit biased, but I would be saying the same thing about any one of my clients based off the information I just gave you of like where we're going with the first couple shows of the year. Our feedback, etc. But now let's get the real kick in the pants was get there. We get there, right? First off, the rental car had a kicked out fog light in a crack in the windshield, which I of course documented took pictures of, right? We, we, we, we had to find a Dallas because tickets were going to be twice the cost to fly directly to Schreepor. So he fully Dallas. Two and a half hours away, we drove in. We get to the hotel and it was nothing like what the pictures looked like guys like we put the hotel through experience. Maybe you could put some of those up now Scott because I like this one. See if this. We kind of, there we go. I like this one. That was the furniture. Oh, okay. Yeah. Do not black light that coat that couch right there. Don't sit on that under. We didn't have to. You can see the stains of that on anything. We didn't sit on anything. We didn't put our stuff down. We literally walked in. We had to get a training session in before the gym closed. So we left our stuff there. Went to the gym while we're at the gym. We're figuring out where we're going to go because we're not staying on that place. You got to show us a little picture. You knew you knew it was, let me ask you, you looked at this front door. You knew that it was a problem before you even wanted. Yes. It didn't. That's what we were with the battering ram. So there was some shit going on in there. The inside of the door. There were too much better. There was like dead skin. Yeah, that's the inside. Oh my. There was like dead skin on the floor. There were fingernails. There was a ball of hair about this big. There was the tissue container had zero tissues in it. I mean, there was some, there was some like, yeah. So I literally died. I got all this shit because I'm like, we're getting our money back. We're getting out of this place. Yeah. So anyways, we had to get into another hotel. The other hotel had a bed that was maybe big enough for my dog. Yeah, that was the floor guys. Okay. That was everywhere. Oh, I mean, yeah. Like absolutely disgusting show the bathroom. Do you see the bathroom? That's the thing. There was like some, there was like some unidentified probably shit on the floor. Oh, yeah. You see that little stuff on the bottom left there? I don't know what the hell that was. We did stick a red and two brush looks bad too over there in the corner. Who left the two? He's there. This was there. Oh no. That is not there. Guys. It was on the floor right in front of there. It was on the floor right in front of there. Okay. Showing they did not do that. It was good. Here's the safe. There's a picture of the safe that was in the room right here. Oh, no. That's not the safe guy. It's a vent. That was exposed. And the air was blowing out of that blow and that dust that us. Okay. You know somebody opened that safe up. Somebody or somebody opened that vent up because they went to hide shit in there. You know that's what it was. There were drugs. There's money on the other door. Did you check? Because yeah, you might have found like a stack of bills. Yeah. No, I don't want to get hit. I just want to get hit with this. There's no way. So we get to another place. The bed's tiny. I didn't get any sleep. I got like three hours of sleep on that Thursday night Friday night leading the show. Now the way we scheduled it. We had to leave Sunday morning. Yeah, it looks like a class of joint. We had to leave Sunday morning. We had to flight at six o'clock at a Dallas. So the plan was we get done the show. We were going to get in the car at nine o'clock. Drive to Dallas. Find something to eat. And then try to take a nap in the parking lot before we get on. Yeah. We hit a fucking rainstorm out of hell. Like the only way I can describe is if someone took an Olympic size pool and just continued to like dump it onto the road. And I don't know if this is common for down there. It was actually kind of amazing. Like we were going 15 miles an hour in the inner state for about an hour and a half. It was crazy. And at times Rachel, like you should pull over. You should pull over. I'm like, now, like we're going. You know, it was like absolutely amazing. It started off with a heat, heat lightning. I don't know, went on. It lit up the whole sky. It was crazy. But anyway, we get to the airport. We make it there in time. No nap, obviously. And just to find out that our flight got canceled. And so we're like, you freaking kidding me. We could have actually tried to get some sleep last night. We were able to find another flight. Get home later. But we got home much later than we thought we would. We'd like to get home Sunday to be able to like go to the grocery. Sure. You know, you're sitting up. Yeah, I get your weeks set up. Checking on emails if I have anything left over. So yeah, it was just kind of a shit weekend in a waste of money. That sucks, man. That sucks. I, you know, I can, I can feel it for you guys too. Because you, you know, you took the critiques. You followed. But it just goes to show, too. I mean, anybody watching that, you know, because I see so many times that people, um, they want to get into body building. And they're like, I want it. Yeah, I want to win. And that's my goal. I'm going to win this show. You never, for a can, no, you know, you never know what's going to happen. Yeah, right. Let me say, like, we're not delusional thinking that we're like, you know, top Olympian or that, you know, we were going to win the show. Like, we have tons of respect for like the other competitors, especially the girl that won. Like, we've seen her four times this year. And she'd been right there. Second, third, second, third, you know, right up in the ranks. Yeah. And just where the trajectories when you're in that call out with this, with some of these girls regularly. And then all of a sudden, you're like, way in the back of the bus, it's like, whoa, like, we're not even off. Like, what's going on here? You know, it's just one of those stompers that it's upsetting. But we got a bunch of listener questions. It's not had scratcher for sure. Before we got to the other one. Yeah, I'm sorry. I cut you off to it. I just want to add one thing. I want it because I think this is important. The listener's look. Because we know better. And I'm sure that you understand this two way to Andrew. So I just want to let the listener know. So I'm sure that the listener's looking for something that doesn't go the right way. And it looks like someone was robbed or screwed or like, what the fuck happened. Yeah. That's not on the competitors. So getting mad at another competitor for beating your client or beating your friend or beating your mom or something. Yeah. That doesn't have anything to do with them. And I'm not saying, you know, the judges suck and blame the judges. All I'm saying is it's not the competitors fault. Yeah. They were placed where they were. Sometimes it, I said this about man and earlier, sometimes it grows your way. Sometimes it doesn't. It's a subjective sport. You're going to get your get a call that maybe you didn't deserve. You're going to not get a call maybe deserve in your situation. It is a little bit different because it's just not even close. It's not like you went to second call out or it just really is a head. So if it happens to Andrew or it happens to his wife or it happens to a client, a mine or whatever or it happens more than you would think. Yeah. Yeah. But usually don't you think skip usually when you see those little, those little things like that as coaches and people that have been around the sport, judging, watching, you can be like, okay, I can justify why they went that way. Right. Like for instance, when you're breaking down to man, he like, okay, why you got fifth and set a third or fourth, you were, it was pretty easy for you to say, okay, I can understand why this judging panel went that way. Like they didn't put you last place, right? And you can't, and you can't, and you can't, and you can't, like, you can't expect that every judging panel, Scott, you touched on this earlier, just because it's a different judging panel, there should be subtle differences, but when there is a huge contrast or huge disparity, really that shouldn't happen unless something really dramatic is, is changed like the condition isn't there or someone is there's some weird shit going on. Even with those different head judges and things like that, it should still be, like you said, the similar trajectory should be in this exactly. It's, it most definitely should be. I know I'd be a little frustrated too, and at the same time it's one of those things, like what are you going to do? You go to the next show and you literally go to my aminix. Good, good, good. All right, before we got into our questions, you hit a shout out, Andrew, so I want to make sure we got that in. And this was a two tie-bender, so I think he's the guy in the middle here. Yep, that was his first show. He chose the pit, which is traditionally a very tough show. And he works with my buddy Morgan Rice, who, if you guys have him, he's like a no, he's a no bullshit guy, right? He, he actually does roster cuts on his clients. Really? But yeah, like if he knows you're not like holding up, he's like, you're getting cut, like pink slip, and of the week, stop paying me back home. Wow. But, but no, this kid came up and said hello and wanted a picture, and we just chatted and I, you know, I gave him a lot of compliments because, you know, he's a young guy, he did the work, he came in looking great, and I think he's taken the right steps, you know. I think he got second, and I think all of his classes, but I could see him in two years being a show over. So, that's a lot of, a lot of development for, how old did you say he's pretty young, right? Yeah, I want to say he's like 21, 21, 22, something like that. But, yeah, just, just big props to him, and thank you for listening to the program buddy. Oh, yeah. All right, I'm not sure if I got all my screen caps in order here, but I do have a bunch of questions that I kind of gathered up from previous episodes. Let's see what we got here. We got another training, let's start with this one training question. Um, Noel New York City. I'd love to hear about the fine line between number of reps. For instance, obviously a certain amount of volume via reps is required to stimulate muscle. However, when the poundages go up in intensity increases, plus the addition of intensity techniques, I find it very hard to count past 20 reps. If one is able to do 30 reps or more, when it be more optimal to increase the weight, so muscle failure is reached at approximately 20 reps. Seems like going over is almost junk volume. If one can push through to do 50 reps, the pain and suffering will be in touch. But wouldn't there be more benefit via hypertrophy doing more weight with 20 to 25 reps? Loved diminishing returns. Does it come into play, guys? I can stuff up and say I did 50 reps last week after John was on for legs. And my situation is a little bit different because I'm a little bit limit. I'm sorry. Thank you. Yeah, good point. You did 50. It was running. Yeah, but I did like, I was fucked up. It was brutal. I want to get into it. But anyway, I'm a little bit limited with my knee right now. So I figured you know what? I'm going to find out 2,000. I'm going to find out if it's if repetition irritates it or if it's just resistance of weight. Because I figured if I did 50 reps and it was lighter and it irritated my knee, that's pretty good to know that it may actually be repetition instead of just resistance. But anyway, I'll tell you this. And I would use the example of a cyclist. If you see a cyclist, rarely will they not have pretty ridiculous quads. So if it's high rep constant, there's obviously high purtrophy from that high rep high volume training. The question I think becomes which is better. And all I can say is this is my take on it, my opinion on it. The body doesn't know a rep range. It knows a stimulus. So you're either going to create a stimulus that it hasn't seen or that it's not used to and there'll be adaptation, which is essentially high purtrophy or there won't. So the 50 reps set to me crippled me. Does soreness necessarily mean growth. It's not married. It's argue you argument of correlation versus causation. But at the same time, it's a pretty safe bet that if you're crippled sore when I hadn't been before, that that is a stimulus that my legs and my quads were not used to. And I would have, I came out of that session going, there's no fucking way I did not grow from this. And it was 50 reps a second to, I don't want to say failure, but about as fucking, when I was at 35, 38, I'm like fuck my life. I don't think I'm going to get there and then it becomes a mental issue. Second one, I only got to 40. So there was an element of failure there. And then I went to pendulum and I did something very similar. So the point is, I do think that there is merit in the higher reps. I will say this though, because I'm, you know, my brain immediately goes to, well, fuck it. I'm doing it next week. And I'm going to do it the week after that's not how it works because it's essentially a high intensity technique that the body will adapt to relatively quickly. But I do like the higher sets in my situation because I did find that the repetition didn't irritate it. It is a resistance issue for my cartilage and knee problem. So I'm going to benefit from it quite a bit. I'm actually pretty happy that that topic came up and it gave me a different, different thing to use for training. But I think there is huge benefit in that technique. Even going to, I mean, it's kind of brutal with the 100 reps thing to where maybe only get to 78, but you drop set or not drop set. I'm sorry, rest pause. You know, the rest of the way to 100 reps. It's brutal shit. It's just brutal fucking shit. Can you back your point about adapting to the stimulus? Would you agree that like it's one of those things that you can use once in a while? But it's not something you should program in every single week. Yeah, absolutely. And that's why I'm glad that I touched on that just because I don't want anybody to think that yeah, this is the way that I would train for, you know, three or four months and expect continued progress out of I don't think that would be the case either. But I'd use the example of the cyclists because I do think that the higher about if you did. I mean, look, there are some people I know I grew, I'd use myself as an example back in the DC days. I grew from those 20 reps sets to failure. Really, more than I had ever grown on heavier squats or heavier movements at 8 to 10 or 12 reps. It could be that I was taking, you know, it could be argued that I took those 810 12 reps sets further and closer to failure and was pushing them closer to the 20 rep. So then it becomes an issue of failure more than eight. There's this is a huge the rep range is tough. The debate in the argument because I still think it's effort more than it is an act and there's time under tension. There's a lot of other variables than just banging out, you know, you get three. It was my biggest concern about DC training was if you get three more reps. But you made the temple of those reps a little bit quicker without really consciously being aware of it than was there really progression. But the system the way he said it up is to make the progression measurable in a black and white sample. So you're going to have those slightly changing variables sometimes in the point is you're still progressing it's measurable. All right, we've got one from I'm going to go a little life feed here real quick. Jojo you join just and says what is the bare minimum amount of protein intake and still grow muscle. It says an example being if someone has kidney issues. The bare minimum. I don't think we can throw out a number, and especially if he has kidney issues. We probably shouldn't be throwing out a number at him. I don't think there's an exact number be I don't think there's an exact number that we could give a blanket for a man who weighs 250 versus a man who weighs 200 or anything like that. I'm thinking back to the podcast you did with Dr. Scott recently where he talks about protein and protein. Yeah, your minimum protein requirements and then you know how all the additional protein you eat. We'll protein being the number one macro nutrient that you can eat that will not put on fat. So essentially in a way a lot of us might be just completely overeating protein. But you know because it's bodybuilding we're going to make sure we do everything we can take it to the end of the degree. And I think back to like you know I seen some of um Chad Nichols diets where it's like 7 meals a day 12 ounces of protein every single meal whether it's 12 ounces chicken 12 ounces steak me personally. I know I couldn't handle that digestion wise. I just know that. I know for me I think if I'm getting about 300 grams of protein a day I'm going to be growing. That's probably my minimum. I get more than that but I think 300 maybe even a little bit less. You know but I also say that seeing John Meadows continue to progress eating probably maybe 140 grams of protein a day. Yeah like when you add it all up. I mean two eggs for breakfast right a protein drink before you one scoop of protein powder for you go to the gym. You know four or five ounces of fish after the gym and then maybe a chicken breast meal later on that night with six ounces. What's that? That's under 200 grams easily and he was you know 220 pounds in shape pretty much year round. I started working with a guy recently. It fills out the questionnaire pays me we're getting started and you know in the questionnaire I say you don't do you have any health concerns and you know at the end I even put is there anything else we haven't discussed that would be important I should know doesn't put anything. Shout out to you Matt if you're watching and then. His name is Matt is a different man. He. He. He. He's doing a really good job. By the way, but I get the plan set up and he mentions yeah I should be seeing my doctor at the end of the month for my kidney disease. I was like wait what hold on hold on hold on hold on we just built a plan and all set like I'm ready to hand it over to you we're going to get started. What so we backed up you know and I talked to him and he told me how much I think he said he was using I can't remember what it was if it was like 300 grams of protein or something he built up to that. And he went to his doctor and the doctor said hey I got it back off from that a little bit so I think he went down to like 200 so I can't remember what it was what the numbers were. It's been that you know a couple months since we had that discussion but anyway what I needed to come what I ended up coming up with is a plan that was very low in protein I'm looking at it right now. So we have 135 grams of complete protein in his diet to start 135 grams. 160 grams of total protein so and one thing I think people don't always understand is you know the proteins we can use versus like the extraneous protein in your in your oatmeal that might not be beneficial for growing muscle or you know in your broccoli. I went through and figured all that out and this was a little bit under what he had been using but he was comfortable with using. And then my thought is is that if his body is tested out okay with that amount let's see what we can do because flat out he's not a big guy right and I think muscle mass is probably going to be affected right. So if JoJo was a big dude he's probably going to need more protein than mad is but if you're not a big dude you know the thought is is we're starting low and he's going in to get tested by his doctor again I'm going to see where he's at and maybe down and he's losing fat really well. He looks like he's you know retaining muslims getting stronger all the science are saying that things are going good right but you know we'll see what the lab works as and then maybe down the road we may need to increase protein and and I think we probably have some room you know what I'm saying in 166. But that would be my thought would be you know work close with a doctor if you have issues in the reality is you might not be able to be a guy who's going to be pushing 300 grams 400 grams of protein you know I mean. Just not be in the car this disclaimer also for anybody that's looking at our coach if you have kidney disease or any issues make sure you let them know that's as a bodybuilding coach when I see kidney issues that's big red flags my head like we're going to really talk about this right like. Joint injuries or you know I don't know maybe they're on acutane so like liver is going to be a little messed up but I see kidney issues and I'm like okay we need to really figure out you know or you what you're using for are you stage three failure like what's going on there let's let's get this figure down. Yeah and you know that's that's what we did in the situation and to his defense he didn't know that that with bodybuilding we might be pushing protein so. You know I'm glad it worked out the way that it did. I think some people do know though and they may have the idea well you know so until may not work with me and I don't think people should know it's not necessarily disqualifying. Issue you have a low EGFR you have other you know issues whether it be kidney or anything else but it needs to be taken into consideration. So that you know when the plan is put together you know we we know a lot of shit we've got a lot of experience working with a lot of people with a lot of different issues so. Even though it's possible that some a coach could actually say you know I'm not comfortable with this I think it's far more likely that they'll just take that into consideration they're going to ask you a lot more information make sure they have a lot of background and they'll be able to work the plan around that. And just to be clear because I mean he was asking for kind of specifics and I agree with you and you can't really get specifics on how low to go. But I would say this I think that without it without existing kidney issues because other than knowing he had kidney issues I don't know the specifics of what it is. I don't like to drop below. I would say a gram of protein per pound of body weight but I tend to go with lean mass because I don't really care to feed protein to you know someone who's 50 pounds overweight. And at the same time Scott coming back to what you said I just want to make this point you don't count. I you didn't say incomplete but I think that's what I don't count incomplete protein either from you know peanuts or or you know. I just have never done that and it was funny because I still live it now and then we'll get someone who will work with me and say well you know the calories count why don't and it's funny because I think just in Harris you know a trope on nutrition him and I go back to 2001 and I am about for him and about ex ex at the end. I don't know if he still does it but I know right up until four or five years ago he and I still had that same approach where we don't count trace macros and not just protein but trace amounts of carbs and peanuts and things like that either and sometimes I'll get a client one out of 15 that I have to explain the process to and why. And I'm not saying that everybody does that I'm saying it's right right just it's the system that I have used and it's solid because I've used it for 20 years and and someone like Justin who's who's old school maybe the newer school guys don't do that maybe it's just something that just and I and people like I's been around. I'll tell you why I'll tell you why because everyone today has like those trackers like the my fitness power and because like even when client I'll claim that they have a concrete plan right now right and they're like well yeah they'll say something in reference. So there my fitness power and I'm like why you put in the plan I wrote for you into my fitness power like you have your time you know yeah six times a chicken 200 grams of rice like that's what you're supposed to be following don't please don't put it in there like because on those screen shots back to me sometimes I'm like look. I'm not being disrespectful I'm not even going to look at that you know same thing with like like dexus cans or not dexus but like those in body scans people. Yeah, I'm like look that's cute and everything I don't look at that I don't know my I see right I know what you need to look like on stage I don't care if it says you're 7.8% you're not lean enough yet like you know what I mean like I'll trust my eyes over you know mechanical data any any day of the week sure. But I was gonna say this about the incomplete proteins because because I do the same general thing you guys do like I really only count the regular protein, but I do put everything down like the five grams of protein in a couple of half couple of votes or whatever. Just for that reason because people are always repeating back to me. Oh, it doesn't add up etc. But I do think that the incomplete proteins because you know the way protein works right you need a protein. Your body digests it it goes into the amino acid. It's not like that gram a chicken. Sir plants itself into a gram of protein on your biceps right it's all broken down into amino acids and then your body reconfigures it based off them tour and all the other signals etc. So I do think that some of those amino acids you know what being incomplete it's all about does your body have the right combination of them at the right time when your body is making proteins. And let's say you're chicken breast and chicken breasts is higher in histidine and maybe some of the other amino acids that aren't considered essential. Your body can pull from some of those other places maybe maybe have an excess of some amino acids in the chicken breasts. You body can pull you see I'm going with this like yeah, yeah, you can complete protein eventually make it. But I still agree with you guys with the system like I and my head. I'm adding the six ounces of chicken. I'm adding the six ounces of steak. I'm adding the two scoops away. I'm not sitting there micro five grams of protein from from the oats. You're not counting out of the one gram of. Now like I'm I'm counting it for the caloric sense of just to keep a rough tally so that they don't come back to me and say this doesn't add up but yeah. Yeah, so. Here's a fun one from Lucas he says um off topic when doing grocery shopping what is the first thing you go for and we'll stop right there because he had a second one too. I think it matters to determine like which grocery store I'm going into because like if you go into the grocery store most of them at least up here enters you right into the produce section. So I kind of just go produce fruits meets and fishes and then around the store to like the eggs and then if we need anything in between I go in between but. We know what I mean like it's for me it's it's not like I walk into the store and like oh I got to get this first I walk into the store and oh my produce and my veggies are right in front of me I'll grab those now because they're in proximity. Yeah, I'm similar I'd almost pick it up and look at this question but a better question would be why does this why do the same stores in a grocery store chain. Why are they set up differently why is the produce in the dairy in different places in different safeways it's a fucking safeway just put them in the same spot so when you go to a different one hopeful the same damn way. I go into a different one I got to try to find where the fuck is my meat why I have it set up this. Yeah, but I'm so I do something similar I think my only thing is this funny that you say different different stores because that you know I go to why go to Whole Foods for specific things and I have to go to Target for other shit. And I will not go to this public's down here because it's downtown let's just say it's it's. I am a pretentious deck and it's low brow I'm just gonna say it's fucking low. I like public I do too I do too this one specifically though because it's downtown it's very very small and very limited when you only have it I don't go there for Ben and Jerry specifically but when you don't have Ben and Jerry's other than the little trial size and it's in one fucking flavor cherry Garcia I'm going somewhere else. Yeah, I'm going to go to the trash anyway I go for my chicken first because I go in and I tell him I need 10 to 12 pounds because I cook it for the week while he's doing that and it's the same guy all the time so if my daughter goes in she'll ask you know like, oh you know we kind of know him same for my wife. So then I go around I get my other shit and then I come back to get my meat so I always go for chicken I go get groceries based on the fact that I need my protein source for the week otherwise I'm not going to fucking grocery store. We you know I have to think Victoria for being in my life because now we we rate everything down on a whiteboard on the refrigerator so we have like an Italian list and then we go together a lot of times and she'll snap a picture of it. So that way we stay organized otherwise it's all in my head and ever did grocery lists before that and I was pretty good because I was only buying like seven different things and before the pandemic I'd go to the grocery store every day I'm day to get two items after I trained it was my vacation from like getting out of the house and all that go to the gym go to the grocery store go home. It's still is kind of like semi vacation we have my year here it's called a lot of people call it myers with an ass but there's no air thrifty acres. Yeah, yeah, exactly you know it's get so we don't know myers as you call it here and there's the clothing department and they have everything else all your pharmacy stuff. I'm lawn care into like then like hunting and sporting goods and that's all on one side of the store the other side of the store is a grocery area so my. What's what's the word I'm looking for here like when you might when you got your game my game plan is that we park on that side with all the home good stuff. There's less people parked there so we can park you know it's not a cart and people banging around and everything and then we go in that side get anything we need from like you know hair or stuff or whatever. And vitamins and then we just casually strong we walk through the like home good areas and look at the lawn care stuff and and we finally make it back to ward the actual food now we can start from the back and work our way forward. And then we don't have to you know and then because Victoria has the list we're very efficient we hit that I am we're like oh yeah we need you know coconut oil cooking spray or you know stevia whatever. Tell you guys are newly married. Yeah, I'll tell my wife I'm like hey I'm going to go to the grocery when I go she's like. I'm like what are you going to do I'm going to say here my phone. I'm watching play you. Like what like we don't do things like that anymore. That's a very very fun for her to be worse. We'll stop the grocery store on the way home and like she's telling me all the stuff we need on the way and then like I start to turn the car she's like not not don't turn it off. I'm like. Oh, she's already on her phone. Yeah, I'm like what she works out because honestly you know us as coaches we're sodium sedentary that I actually do like going to grocery store for the steps aspect of it. Yeah, so I purposely perk part farther away even then so I can walk in and then I kind of walk the aisles even when I don't need to just to get my steps up towards the end of the day so not take a walk at night. So we don't yeah we here's the thing is like we don't do we don't go out to do fun stuff like this to us is that is our fun skip that is our fun. We're looking to see what what lawn chairs they have now for you know spring or whatever that's like yeah. You know there's an app Scott that connects the two of you that like grocery list or something where you put everything down and then like if she checks in when she's like driving on you know driving out and about and she needs to stop the grocery store she can look and see oh Scott put down that we need to do it. And then she hit the button and it chalks it off the list for you so that when you go you're like oh we need cleaning supplies well I'm in Walmart I can pick those up so just kind of like it's like a running list. You guys have to understand though we're both here 24 hours a day we don't leave us like we if we leave it's like you want to do a big adventure today let's go to a different grocery store. You know. You try to find the produce department. Yeah. All right well listen we got a wrap this thing up we actually went a little bit long I appreciate everybody hanging with us guys if you want to reach out to any of us for coaching we'd be happy to talk to you. You can go to team skip dot com you can go to body berry dot com that's with a B E R R Y not in A you can reach out to me and make daily diets at Gmail that not excuse me. We're going to go to our website that's going to be a big hit up our great sponsor is true nutrition dot com user code think. If you're in Canada supplement source dot C A and check out our Patreon if you're not a part of that like I said I've been putting out some additional bonus features over there thanks a lot guys and we'll see you soon.

You have something that's called the erectile phthaloimosal that holds your hair follicle in place within your skin. Huh. Now if that erectile phthaloimosal detaches from the hair follicle in your scalp, that follicle dies. What's up guys, welcome back to Think Big Bodybuilding Media. I'm Scott McNeely and back with me today is Dr. Dean St. Mark. We're going to talk about a few things including hair loss, which has been a topic that it's kind of a niche topic. A lot of people in bodybuilding, they just shave their heads and they're fine with that. And then if I talk a little bit about my hair loss protocol, which I'll talk a little bit about today, then there's always a handful of people that want to know more. So I thought this would be fun. First of all, man, I'm happy to have you back. We've been a little while. Definitely has. Yeah, I was only saying today. It's probably been February. So it's nearly 10 months ago. Yes. It's been a long, 10 months for me. That's for sure. And you're working independently now. You quit your day job as an engineer. You are working full time now with supplement needs, fantastic company, by the way. You guys are knocking it out of the park, man. Some of the best house supplements that are available on the market. So I'm really happy to know there's companies like supplement needs out there. Yeah, and I'm really happy that it exists as well because it definitely for a long time was required in this industry where I was just, even myself as a consumer for a few years ago, just annoyed that people were getting ripped off or was noting really catered towards you know, the whole, I guess audience in this channel with body builders and keep them body builders healthy and safe and given the right education. Yeah. So it's definitely like I said it before we started. It's it's very surreal. This is now my full time job. It's freaking awesome, man. And you're doing good things. I think that body building is lucky to have you because I can tell you that back when I started, we were simply told takes a milk vessel. And that was the only health supplement that we used. Milk vessel, 1000 milligrams while you're on an oral outside of that, you're good. Just make sure you run your PCT and that's it. You're fine. Period. That's it. And then I guess we, I started to wonder why perhaps guys now from 20 years ago who might have started using our suffering health consequences. So yeah. It's definitely an interesting time that we live in with the, obviously the accessibility of the internet and the open transparency of people like myself and Victoria, etc. That are, you know, giving out free education. Yeah. You know, so you're going to listen because ultimately at the end of the day I want people to live happily into the, you know, 50, 60, 70s. But out suffering consequences are similar to choices they made made. Hell yeah. I think that's a, that's a great point. I know you guys have, as your shirt says, supplement needs education, S. and education and that you have a big thing that you've put together or are putting together over there about hair loss. We won't be able to go in quite as deep because the reality is I don't have the attention span to sit here for the next hour and learn everything. But I want to, I don't know if some of our listeners do. Some of them do. Some of them do. But I thought let's, let's maybe look at some of the, I guess more than bullet points. You know, I want to know a couple things. I want to know, you know, what are the, the causes of hair loss to start and then maybe we could talk a little bit about, you know, what are some of the things we could consider to, I guess, keep hair or regrow hair. Where, where would you want to start with something like this? I guess we can talk about potentially some of the mechanisms of all your hair falls out and then we can, we can, we can have it, we can have a discussion of, you know, some of the treatments or why certain treatments work, other stones. But like I said with SN education, I, this was basically a topic that arose because I put a picture on social media of my own hair rewrote. Yes. I am a basically got my hair coat in the summer and I was really bad. I quite a lot of temporal tending up here on both the left and right side and I just turned my wife Morgan and said, how can you never ever said this to me that my hair was this bad. And she just, she turned around and said, well, to be honest, there was never really payin attention, but now that you do say it, yeah, it is quite tin compared to when I first met you. So I guess probably one of the things that happens with guys like you said, the other shave her head or you get lazy and just ignore it. Yeah. The issue is that we're going to see when we have a little shy hairs, it's irreversible if you don't intervene quickly. What effectively will happen is the hair follicle will die and the only way you're getting the hair follicle back would be with a transplant. So it's imperative that when you start to see, you know, tending of hair or miniaturization with the hairs, you know, becoming very fine and tin or you have lost hair basically where it's fallen out that you intervene quickly enough to stimulate the hair follicle to grow again for those stem cells to start growing so that the hair follicle is basically kept intact. Am I right in this? Because I think I've heard that if you are visually seeing hair loss that you've already lost a lot, like you have to lose a ton of your hair before you actually could notice it. Yeah, like an average with the hair growth cycle, you lose between 50 to 100 hairs per day. So when you rub your hand, chew your hair and you see hair actually in your hand. Sometimes guy's freak, where they psychologically think they're losing their hair, but in fact it's just part of the hair cycle where you shed a hair, which is effectively called the clope hair. So that hair can no longer grow, it's detached from stem cells in the hair follicle. So in fact, it's just resting in your scalp and eventually your scalp releases that hair and starts growing a new one. So that's effectively a clope hair will fall out and you'll see that naturally on your pillow. Hopefully it starts growing a new one. That's all I'll say. Exactly. Sort of like, you know, when you start to see this, I guess, by temple tanning, so basically that sort of widows peak or both sides, that sort of the first area where we start to see the genetic predisposition for this undergenic alopee should happen. So I guess we're hairloss before we go off on a tangent to it, alopee, shift from undergenetic issues to sort of seven major ways that you can have hairloss. The first one will be known as the talogen effivium and that sort of where your hair falls out due to stress. So when you're undergoing a real stressful period, this is more so females will notice this. You'll see an increased shedding or what we call a sort of resting phase of our hair and you're shedding hair on a faster rate than the anogen phase, which is where your hair grows is keeping up. So it's all about keeping this balance between the anogen phase, which is where your hair grows and the talogen phase where your hair sort of rests or waits to be shed. Okay. So the talogen effivium is normally caused by psychological stress or it can be caused by physical stress, but that's where your hair is sort of being shed, but there's hair still growing underneath. So it's not sort of an alopee should that be irreversible. Once you want to address that stress, it should restore balance to the hair follicle and that shedding will cease. There. Then you've sort of got nutritional impacts. So again, your hair is made of keratin, which is a protein. So if you're not ingesting enough protein or you're not getting enough vitamins and minerals like vitamin A, vitamin D, zinc, I think vitamin C plays a role as well, selenium. You can all lead to obviously brittle hair and hair is going to fall out then because again it's not being nourished at the follicle. Yeah. You've got endocrine and balances like anogenic alopee, where you have a higher amount of anogenes in your body and it's going to affect the hair cycle. So in other words, you're shortening that anogen phase where your hair is growing and you're lengthening that halogen phase where the follicle is resting and effectively over time then the follicle isn't producing hair at a faster rate than it's being shed and eventually that follicle dies if you don't keep up with that. I guess anogen phase imbalance. So that's probably going to be like the majority of our viewers listeners. Yeah. And then like obviously that your own, this is all if there's a nice published paper where breaks down like sort of the seven major causes of hair loss. You've got, you know, certain drugs can cause hair loss and a lot of guys don't realize that, you know, use of AIs, romatez inhibitors where you're lowering your estrogen to much. Yes. Can affect your hair. Yes. You need a steady concentration of estradial in order to encourage blood flow to your scalp. And also to limit the amount of testosterone in your scalp that can be produced over to DHT. So estrogen is very important for your hair. And in order to, obviously, would be something like tooxifen, which is a selective estrogen receptor modulator. Use and tooxifen to block that estrogen receptor. If it happens in the scalp, you're going to upset that balance. So again, you might see hair shedding. What we do with use, with use and tooxifen. So you're sort of, you know, it's a double ed sort here. A few use either tooxifen or an AIs. That balance of estrogen is very important for your hair. And then I guess the other ones would be certain diseases or malaglances, like again, cancer, etc, would lead to hair loss. But I guess the one that's going to really interest people here is that Androgenic allopation where we have hyper-androgenemia. Basically, you've got too much androgens within the body, which can then act locally under hair follicle. Obset the balance of this hair cycle between an anagion and intelligent phase. And ultimately over time, lead to miniaturization of your hair. So you're no longer producing tick hair. And eventually what will happen is you have something that's called the erector pelaimosal that holds your hair follicle in place within your skin. Huh. Now, if that erector pelaimosal detaches from the hair follicle in your scalp, that follicle dies. So you can imagine as the hair miniaturizes and becomes thin, the attachment of that muscle wouldn't the dermis gets less strong. So becomes weak. And if you allow that miniaturization to continue, eventually that erector pelaimosal let's attach the hair follicle detaches. And again, that's there for strength. But then it also causes the detachment of where you have stem cells within your hair follicle detaching also. Hmm. So this is important that when you start to see hair loss that you correct as soon as possible because when you get to that point, where boy the erector pelaimosal has detached from the follicle, you end up in a scenario that I'm where you have basically lost the hair follicle and you're going to be bald unless you transplant a new graft of a hair that's already attached to the erector pelaimosal. Yeah. Okay. So that's sort of why we need to intervene as soon as possible when we start to see hair fall and out. Then we can sort of get into the real sort of nitty gritty, but I'll keep it as simple as possible here that you have your hair follicle and at the bottom of it we have what's called the dermal pepela. And the dermal pepela is what attaches to the bull above your hair. So at the bottom of your hair follicle you've got this dermal pepela and out of that grows the hair. If that dermal pepela detaches from the hair follicle as well, you lose blood flow to the hair follicle and again that follicle dies. So it's important that you know we've got quite a number of physiological things that we have to consider when we're looking at the health of the hair follicle and ensuring that this collagen phase, the resting phase over hair stays as short as possible in order for the hair underneath the progress back to anage and grow a new hair shaft. Okay. So sort of the main ways we tackle hair loss to sort of four approved ways of addressing hair loss. So we can either increase blood flow to that dermal pepela. Yes. So that dermal pepela now is more blood going to more nutrients, more caretone, more growth factors, etc. that stimulates the growth of a hair. So if you can bring more blood flow to the hair follicle, just a chance then that we're bringing more nutrients and encourage the hair shaft to grow again. Did you see that study where they actually talked about like I can't remember what the duration was but they were doing head massages. Yeah head massager and micro needle is a big thing that effectively helps. So micro needle and not only good for helping collagen at the skin, you can actually do micro needle to stimulate hair growth. And that's something that's become very popular in the last 10 years. So what you're sort of playing on when you do micro needle is your encouraging blood flow to that hair follicle true in juicing a wound. So if you think about it, when you get a wound anywhere in your body if you get a coat, you have all these platelets, clotting factors coming to the area to help heal that wound. Yeah. Now when you have a wound with a hair follicle, the same thing happens again. You have an immune system within your scalp as you would anywhere in your body. But your immune system in your scalp is very important because it helps to basically break down a dead tissue that's in the scalp again, cleaning up the area after it's any bacteria or pathogens present that might be upset in the balance of the micro biomite scalp. When we induce a wound in the scalp, the sort of immune response cells come in, tidy up the area, bring these growth factors with them and help stimulate the growth of hair again. So with that micro needle and it's a really nice way to help stimulate the growth of hair. But also you're creating micro channels in your skin through your punching little pores into your skin with this micro needle. So if you're using topical solutions like monoxidale or fenasteride or order things that we know that we can apply to the scalp, you're creating a little micro channel to allow that solution to penetrate into the dermis as well. I'll be done because we know we know that the barrier to skin is quite thick and again it's there to stop things from being absorbed. So if we can get more I guess local absorption of a compound due to surf citizen to the root of the hair follicle, you're going to for example monoxidale monoxidale increases blood flow to your scalp. So monoxidale can actually reach penetrate your scalp. It's going to encourage more blood flow, more growth factors, it's said, we're too that hair follicle. And again you're going to be enriching that dermal papilla with more nutrients and your hair becomes stronger again. Yeah, so first of all this is kind of funny Matt. He needs this study so that he can show his wife so that he can get some more head robes. I think they were saying it was like 25 minutes a day or something like that, which I mean that's that's a big commitment to get a head massage every day for 25 minutes. I know now for skin they use a thing that I've heard from people that actually are in you know the beauty industry called a dermal roller that does micro-needling across the surface of your face for resurfacing. Is that what you would use on your head or how does that work? Yeah, yeah, you get a dermal, the study they don was between 0.6 of a millimeter to 1.5 millimeter. Okay. So effectively a dermal roller that you do is on your skin, but you're using it on your scalp. So again, if you think about it with the skin, it's helping to stimulate collagen production. Yeah. So again when you're using a dermal roller, you're encouraged in collagen to come to the area of that hair follicle. So you're bringing all these growth factors. Yeah. The main one being it's called vascular endotelial growth factor, V E G F, and that's sort of one of the main ones that helps hair proliferation. Can we get a micro-needling? Research can company owners that are listening. Let's get on that. Like that's sort of the one of the easiest ways that you can encourage blood flow to the scalp. So you can do two or three times per week and then like I said if you incorporate it with top Galapplication, there's a really nice study if you put it into probe med about use a micro-needling along with monoxidil therapy and results the results are incredible. When you see the difference in pictures between the males who applied monoxidil only and the males who don't micro-needling or dermal rolling twice a week and then continue to do monoxidil therapy on top. So that's something that everyone can do at home. Just make sure that if you're going to do it that you follow like good hygienic practice because effectively you are causing wounds in your scalp that can lead to infection. Yeah, yeah it sounds like one of those things like I know body builders were like hey if you know 500 milligrams of test is good then three grams is better. I can imagine some of these guys some of our people are going to take this too far. So go go easy you're saying and start with it. They do warn that if you do combine the therapy of dermal rolling with applying a topical solution that you avoid applying the topical solution after dermal rolling. Okay. The reason being is you might increase the chance of systemic circulation. Oh yeah. And if we sort of look at why monoxidil came about the first place it was actually an oral drug for lowering blood pressure. No kidding. But everyone who took everyone who took oral monoxidil ended up with what's called hyperchocosis. Okay. It's excessive hair growth all over the body. Oh yeah. And that was when they sort of talk okay something interesting is happening here. Yeah. Water free. Water free applied as a topical solution to the scalp can be gets people are alopee should start regrowing hair. And that's what he started to observe in the 80s. So that's where topical monoxidil actually came about that's crazy. So if you do on the off chance apply topical monoxidil after dermal rolling which is a chance of a mic winter blood stream and might start causing hair to grow in places where you don't want to grow. Yeah. All right. Then I guess you know that's sort of encourage and blood flow to your scalp. So monoxidil is probably the one that everyone's heard of and then the dermal rolling on top can help or if you have a willing partner nice Indian head massage couple times. I don't want to get a head of you. I'm so on but I'm using monoxidil. I started it. I saw you know my hair always I always had like really high peaks on my hair. I always had like a five head you know. My hair line was always high but my hair had been thicker than it became as I aged. And I thought you know what? I'll give it a try. I'm going to try some monoxidil and I found that it worked and then I added I didn't want to take finasterized tablets early but I started I you know looking into it and Victoria was looking into it and we we discovered the topical finasterized as well. So that I used that combo man. I could see dermal rolling on top of that being kind of like the trifecta. Yeah yeah and that's one of the big things that my own hair grow to was topical monoxidil with topical finasterized. And that's one thing that's wanting that guys and I get a specific prescription of a spray that has monoxidil and finasterized. I don't have to do the home job that you're doing a crucial tablets and spending it in the monoxidil. Yeah so I mean just because I know I'm going to get people asking that's that's all I do is I'll have one bottle of the foam monoxidil. I'll use that in the morning five five milligrams is it and yeah I present to PM I use the liquid version of monoxidil which is in it and it's pagulated it's in a you know a PEG. I just take the tablets and just drop them in there that I get from my prescription and you know by the if I put them in there the morning by nighttime it's dissolved and then I have a 60 day supply. I've gone a little bit higher because I get the five milligrams tablets but yeah that's that's that's my combo. I'm I'm I think probably about like 1.25 milligrams topically a day of finaster. Yeah I'm what we see is the difference between hair growth of topical and oral finaster. It's very similar. Really? So yeah guys are going the route of what basically happened was when you read the research they were trying to argue that it wasn't just blocking five Alfred octaves in the scalp that was important. It was blocking five Alfred octaves in a whole body and that's why they were sort of trying to push oral being superior to topical for finasterite. So they don't it if phase one phase two and the results of the phase three clinical trial were published at a glass chair put the results between topical and oral finasterite were pretty much the same. I didn't realize that but I'll I'll take it man because I I know so many people have had issues with it orally you know the finasterite syndrome they call it. Yeah and it's sort of like a think five percent of males who use oral finasteride will will suffer with finasterite syndrome like reduce libido which continues post-cization of using the compound. So it's one of those things that guys need to be very wary about when they're making the decision to use because of the global effect that has in the body which now when you look at the research isn't actually required we can effectively block five Alfred octaves in the scalp and effectively limit this undergenic alopecia. Yeah really yeah so but I would go on into like to deep if people want to follow SN education I have like a 50 minute talk on going into the science of five Alfred octaves and wife and astride works and I'm not going to bore people here in society. Do you want to check out the actual molecular science they can head over to SN education and check out the content. That's sort of like two Pirates Citatreatment so you've got your increased blood flow you've got sort of the hormonal imbalance we're using the finasterite. The sort of turtle will be reducing inflammation. Yeah so we know that inflammatory cascades when in the scalp like that intelligent efflivy in my talk about where hair is falling out because of stress. If we can limit the amount of inflammation in the scalp whether that's true say dermatitis where we have potentially increased skin growth which is irritating the scalp them with say dandruff or we have maybe an in order interesting thing that we're starting to see is the microbiome of the hair. So in other words I guess how do you immune system interacts with the in order commensal bacteria in our head is important. And what we're actually starting to see is the bacteria pacchines that propeliony bacteria acne that causes acne on our backs when it reaches high levels. In guys who suffer with hydrogene calopiesia, drags we started to see that approximately 80% of these males have a high amount of pacchines within their scalp. No kidding. Wow. So there's potentially there that this bacteria is starting to enter into a territory where you know we have higher levels of sebum being produced because of the DHD production and that again is causing inflammatory response that's causing damage to the hair follicle as the body is trying to combat that bacteria within the environment basically. So that's something nice to see that you know when you use finastriotopically you may be limiting the proliferation of that bacteria again because you're limiting the amount of DHD present in your scalp. Interesting. Then there's order you know wanting that people asked me my opinion on was Azalecasid? Have you ever heard of this? No this is a new one to me. So Azalecasid is used mainly as sort of like a topical moisturizer by women but when it's applied to the scalp helps to limit inflammation helps to upregulate some of the growth factors within your scalp. And there was another story again where you combined Azalecasid with monoxid ill. And that increased the effect the efficacy of the monoxid ill. So in order as you're lowering the inflammation you're bringing more blood flow to the area and the dermal papillis is happy and the hair follicle starts growing. So Azalecasid is something that people can look for topical application if they want to go down that route. Interesting. How would you go about that as there are a dosage for that that people should look for? There wasn't anything really mentioned when you look at the literature in terms of dosing it's just again just apply it in a mountain I suppose to the scalp. It's very difficult to probably quantify the actual amount. If you buy it as a as a moisturizer there's no sort of standard dosage just asylic acid in a bottle to a percentage. I see. You know volume volume per volume so you're probably just going to apply a small amount to whatever's needed. So you know effectively where you're put on your scalp. And then probably the other one that people probably don't know too much about and there's quite a number of like patents or again research into his immune oil. Oh okay. So, immune oil when you look at the literature from the last maybe 12, 13 years. E-m-u oil helps. First of all it has high amounts of linolanic acid which would be an omega fatty acid which helps again nourish your hair follicle because again it comes back to that nutrition aspect we spoke about so we have to ensure that you have a nice amount of pollion saturated fats in your diet again for the lipid membranes of your body in order to repair them. Yeah. So, immune oil is a high amount of linolanic acid in it which helps nourish the hair follicle. But what's very interesting about immune oil is that it passes straight through your skin. Okay. So it's basically in the literature it's phosphorus deficient. So if you look at the outside of all your cells you have this phospholipid membrane. So because immune oil has no phosphorus in it, it easily passes through your skin. Okay. So what you can effectively do here then is when you've applied your fenastrid, you've applied your monoxidol, you can use your immune oil on top in order to help the absorption true to dermal layers. Oh yeah. I like to have like where we're going with this. This sounds good. So in order to what we're trying to do is take advantage of enhanced, I guess, topical delivery of stuff that we know works. Yeah. And then I guess the fourth aspect to hair treatments will be you know the inevitable like we talk about over in Europe going to say Turkey and getting a hair transplant. That's sort of a hair transplant. So obviously like the success rate of a hair transplant is greater than 90%. So basically what you have two sort of scenarios. If the old fashion way with a hair transplant where boy they take a strip of hair from the back, which is the sort of occipital part of your head, literally cut that out and then just layer on top of where needs hair again basically. The owner area that they sort of do, which is I guess the newer way of doing transplant would be basically they they remove individual hair follicles from the occipital area. And then transplant that follicle into a balled area. So sort of minimize scaring procedure. Not actually having to cut parts of the scalp off. You're pulling the follicle out sort of true, a punching mechanism, sort of sort of punch one millimeter holes into that occipital area and take the hair out and transplant it in. Wow. Now the thing about hair transplants and you know of sort of overly spoke about this even on social media, they fail and most guys don't don't admit their failure or talk about their failure. So if we sort of look at the mechanisms of hair loss, they still apply to transplanted hair. So if your hair is fallen out from your temporal region on either side, you can sort of guarantee you would in five to six years that transplanted hair is going to suffer the same fate. Unless you you know incorporate some of the strategies that we've talked about there have helped increase blood flow limiting the angrigens, lowering inflammation and this should be something that sort of critically told to transplant patients of, you know, when the transplant is done, some surgeons will encourage use of monoxidin post surgery in order to help the graft stick. Yeah. But it should effectively be prescribed for the long term. Which may not be sense. It makes it a total sense. I heard one time Joe Rogan made it in analogy that I thought sounded really good about this. He said hair transplant is like if you have a bunch of sick people because they live in the city and there's a lot of smog and pollutants and that they're dying off because of that and then you take healthy people from a clean neighborhood like out in the suburbs and then you move them into the city eventually you know they're going to be good at first but eventually they're going to get sick too. That's that's a great analogy and that's again that's why we want to when we're treating angrigenetic out of patients. I guess the sorry circumstance is that it's sort of a lifelong treatment if you want to keep your hair basically because of the high instance of I guess Scott would love this because Scott has often talked about, you know, the CAG repeats and the angrigens receptor. Yes. He's often spoke about you know guys who have shorter ones or longer ones but basically the people who have shorter CAG repeats will respond to fenastroid therapy within their hair follicles so we're going to limit the amount of damage within the hair follicle whereas people have higher CAG repeats so they have to sort of polymorphism within the angriam receptor which might make them a hyper responder effectively leads them to losing their hair. So you can do this sort of genetic test to see or susceptibility to angrigenic allopisiable. It's it's more than likely approximately 70% maternally inherited. So you can sort of look at your ankles, your grandfather, your mother's side, you can sort of follow the maternal line and see you know what's sort of fate your hair is going to have as you age but know that these therapies like monoxyl etc. If they're used early so again if you're suffering with undergenic allopisia in your early 20s there's noting to say that you can't continue that therapy you know forever and maintain that hair her health. Yeah. But as soon as you stop the processes you underlying genetics you can't avoid that genetics so the hair is eventually going to fall out. So it's sort of you know if you're making this commitment to keep in your hair you have to stay on top of the treatment if you want to if you want to maintain it basically and that's to say point that applies to your hair transplant. That makes sense and I guess you know it comes down to you know how much do you care about it for some people like we talked about it beginning some people they start losing their hair and they're like ask you're they just start shaving their heads and that's fine and then there's other guys they you know they they just I guess the thing is is you know where where do you want to draw that line I I couldn't see myself ever going in for a hair transplant but I thought to myself you know what it would be easy enough to try some things that would help me to retain and actually my hair has gotten thicker in the process it's improved now I will say I did take a step back when I got COVID all my hair started falling out like and and I'm sure that had to do with stress number one in inflammation number two but I experienced a ton of hair loss and when I first went back to get my hair cut my barber looked at me and he was she was like holy crap like what happened you know because it was just across the board everything had thinned out my hair got super brittle too but now fast forward eight months later and it's you know it's it's not quite to where it was but it's you know it is what it is I guess right and I'm happy that there are steps I can take you know yeah I mean that's again it's like myself I've areas probably in my temporary region here that sort of weirdo's peak I'm never going to grow and back that I've had slowly receded say from maybe the age of 23 24 I'm because of so slow your sort of you know I it's fine you don't really notice it and then you get to like your your methodies and you look and you go well actually maybe I should have not been lazy back there and incorporate these strategies but I think you know I think you started to put a little more focus on your hair as you get older and you realize that you know it's not a precious commodity but you've sort of got a limited time of appreciate it before you actually have to start taking care of it yes yeah that sounds good man

Our Saturday people, it's more of like okay the weeks over, we're just hanging out, we're hanging with Ron Dusty and Scott, and we're just shooting the crap. You know what I mean? That's the Saturday show. Right. That's where the Saturday show. So then that just means that I'm expected to bring my egg game when we record the very next episode. Exactly. I hate to tell ya, but this is my egg game. This is just a little bit faster. We went to the boat house, which is like, you know, the boat. You're dropping 200 bucks there to have like a steak, right? You know, and we went out and had like, flares and I had the fish and chips as an appetizer. And so it was like, real appetizer. Big mashed potato steak. I had the 12 ounce strip loin. She had the six ounce fule, we ate our faces off. And then I came home and ate like a whole bag of her. She's kisses. And then I wake up this morning and I'm like, I lost weight this week. Nice. That's a good place to be. The man you know, you know, it's bad though when I log on, I only see your face. And I'm like, Ron's getting leaner. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. Well, I did eat. I tried to eat up a little before you guys came and I gained like a whopping four pounds. Yeah. You want to be fuller for the fuller. Yeah, just fuller. I had like some cheat meals and tried to. I got to be at least 245 or dusty. He's not going to know who I am. He literally, yeah. He made sure to take his is T RT every seven days for three weeks. Right. Right. He can just take a minute. I might have took two at once like one time. I saw that. I saw that during the back day. You got stronger there. I had two T RTs this week. That's what they call it now. Yeah. He still has that one old bottle of insulin floating around the fridge. So you never know. Yeah, there's like fire bottle as a. You know, five I used left in it. I'm just saving it for a rainy day. So never know moment. Never know. It's funny actually like within the last year, I actually threw a bottle of insulin away and it was the expiration date on it. The expiration date on it was 2016. And it had been in my fridge that long because it was in like the little cheese drawer. You know, oh yeah. And I was like, ah, you know, they're doing okay. And they're not dirty or anything. They're not going to, they don't need to be thrown out. Clean the fridge and just leave that drawer alone. And then I was like, I'm never going to use this. I should probably, oh 2016. Yeah. Definitely get rid of that. Just cause I should get rid of it at my house. I'll see. Yeah. Can you buy your 2016 insulin? I'll go get some. So what are how many, I wonder how many 10 year old I use it takes to equal one I use. That's not expired. Yep. In the bottle. Not for recommended medical use. Right. You know. Okay. So remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. So I thought, oh, and the mutant thing. Mutant loves us, mutant supports us. Bigron 20 or does this one? It does the 20. Get on the website. I am mutant.com or to your stuff. I also have to thank you people. What do you mean you knew people? Yeah. I thought. I'll pack this in. Here we go. We're just lost for listeners. Yeah. Yeah. I got to make sure my logo is straight here. I have a hard time. I think my head's crooked. Yes. So it's like never straight. Yeah. That's all right. It looks intentionally offset. You know, that's what people kids do. I wouldn't know. I've seen it. I can't go by the video because it's the flip. You know, there we go. It looks. Okay. I'm just kidding. I'm not touching it anymore. I'm done. I'll slide it back a little bit. I've done it. Okay. So you guys watch Super Bowl. I didn't even know it was a Super Bowl until we were out. I'm honest. I didn't know it was a Super Bowl. We were out yesterday in Victoria. I was like, surprise. There's so many people. I figured all the Americans were literally all at home watching the Super Bowl right now. We were out hiking. They weren't hiking. That's for sure. Yeah. What about you, Dusty? Oh, yeah. I watched. But I'm painfully bored by professional football. And compared to the college. So it's got to be watched. But I was watching like the girls enjoyed dinner with us when we go out like this. Right. Right. Right. You're like working on your phone. Kind of watching. Yeah. Yeah. I would just replay of the big play after it happened. I'd hear the noise. You hear the noise. Wow. And that would just look up and watch the replay. I was like, okay. Yeah. So it's actually funny. I realized. Remember when you were up Dusty, I told you I was the busiest I'd ever been. Yes. Remember when I told you that we were sitting in the office and I was like, I'm the busiest I've ever been. I didn't know it was a super boy yesterday. And like, I'm like a few other fans. I didn't watch any football this year. I remember I turned the highlights on a few times on YouTube. I clicked it, you know, plays the week. And I was like, oh, I have no idea who any of these players are or what any of these. Who's on any of these teams. I was just so checked out this year. And then yesterday, I'm talking to one of my business partners at the gym. And he's like, hey, do you want to come over and watch Super Bowl? And I'm like, sure when. And he's like, today. That's beautiful. And I'm like, oh, I can't believe I like. Didn't even. Didn't be crossed my mind. That's how little I pay attention to like society. And so you guys know what, like, Dazan is DAZ and DAZ and whatever that app. They have like an NFL. They have like an NFL package on it. Right. So I signed on because I have an account, but I canceled it. So I just signed on for like, you know, you sign on and then he cancel right away. And you get 30 days. So I just signed on real quick, then cancel it. And then just streamed it to my TV and put the game on. And I'm going to fall on a sleep for an entire hour at some point. But, you know, and then we went for dinner. And they had the game on like in the restaurant. Upside kind of looked up everyone's and a while and saw like, oh, it's like, You know pretty close. But I got to know what to boat house. Oh, that was yesterday. Yeah, it was yesterday. Emily's birthday was yesterday. So you didn't even like, you're you're not really a great friend. I saw no pictures of these stakes. Oh, no. But I put up a happy birthday reel for her, you know what I mean? I saw that. And I liked it. I even commented. commented. I always comment on the friend's birthday. It's all right. I just got it's text. Okay, sorry I met eight already. I'm sorry. I blew it's three, but I didn't want to say that. That was counting. That was counting. It was like, okay, there's five minutes editing. There's ten, there's 15. Okay, we're up to 30 minutes. I extra editing. You have to admit, Scott, you were impressed by my lack of F-bomb since it's been tossed. I'm solid. You're pretty good. You're pretty good. You just flipped a switch, Dusty is what you did. You just flipped a switch. I think I don't know. I don't even know you. It's like I didn't even know you swore at this point. Yeah. I've been, I've, I have, I have, I have, I have, I have struggled. What, what, what, it's hard, it's hard to teach an old doctor. I'm afraid. I'm from an era where you just say that all the time. You're used to smoke in the grocery store, too. Yeah, we're smoking on airplanes back in my day. You know, that's a funny thing you just said, I actually had a conversation about that health. They're used to be smoking sections. I was telling the girls that they're like, what? I'm like, yeah, I'm wearing the restaurant. You know, I'm like, but you're in the same restaurant. I'm like, I don't matter. You'd be like, you're in a section. We're smoking hotel rooms, remember? It's not smoking room. You'd be like at a store and you'd be like, hey, babe, what do you think about this shirt? That's real. We walk into the mall, just smoke, hanging out here, my mouth has a govody. You know, remember like there's old, go back like one, one like generation further and the doctors were smoking in the hospital. Right. Right. While they're talking about that. Yep. It's definitely cancer. Yeah. Yeah. We're going to have to operate like a mechanic. Okay. Like an old mechanic. We're going to have to cut that open. You're not going to be smoking while you're cutting the open. Are you? You know, yeah. Yeah. It's just an hot, so you should be fine. Yeah. No. Come in. Love a look at this. You're going to be a scalpel in an astray. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You're right. You put on Zane. It's fine. I only need one tray. Yeah. Unbelievable. I'm doing it. Good time. So, and that's why the kids were harder back then. So yeah, you while smoking. I got to ask who will first of all, who was in the Super Bowl? I literally don't even know. And who won? It was a chiefs versus the Eagles and the chiefs won again. Okay. Was this expected? Did people want this? Was this the general consensus or what was it? It was like a coin flip this year, honestly. And I wanted the Eagles to win just because I think behind this so good that I can never bet against him. So I was like, I'd like to see if he could actually not win a game. But I think the only they had sucks got since you don't know is it was a flawless game. And in the very last couple minutes, they had a very questionable passing of parents call that like, Koss Eagles, not your leading. And they could and the chiefs would have scored either a field goal. They were in field goal range or could have easily still gotten a touchdown. But it ended up being a first down situation now. And there were only two minutes. They basically ran the clock down while knowing that they would kick a field goal unless like to even idea the Eagles actually had a play where they could have gotten a touchdown. Like I stopped short knowing they wanted the clock. Oh, because it was tied. So he literally just went down himself on the one yard line. So then they just play, you know, they let the 30s some odd seconds or whatever each time run down the clock just works his way down. You're like, it was already a great game. It would have been phenomenal to just see it play out. I think they still would have won. But there would have been a chance to go the other direction. It would have been a little more exciting. Even the announcers were like, yeah, it's questionable. And it wasn't a bad call. It's like, you know, this from from all the years of playing around like there's certain time where you just unless it's just ass and iron, you kind of let stuff go. It's like, yeah, you know how it would like, you know, when when rafts like when you got like a game seven and hockey and the rafts are just back and off a little. They're like, just like this one. Let these guys, you want the players to decide the game. Yeah. Yeah, it's get a little rough and, you know, well, yeah, you know what I mean? You don't want to like, specify the, you know, the last period of game seven if it's tied or something like that. And yeah, I saw that. I saw people talking about that. He did grab his jersey. Like, yeah, like a light little tug on those. Yeah, for sure, but in X. C. That's, that it didn't seem to do anything to him. Like, he didn't break strider between that and the ball wasn't catchable. Yeah, like, how do you not done that? He wasn't getting to that ball. So it didn't matter. But I will tell you a few fans. If I was a chief fan, that was absolutely pass in our parents. I don't even know where you're going to be. So I ain't hating, but it, but it, I would have been okay. I would have preferred it if they didn't call it and the chief's still one. Because then it's like, you know, there was no question of involvement there. But there was a big thing going into the game Scott that people were thinking that the NFL was rigged. Oh, no kidding. And I'm like, come on. I'm sorry. That's the most ridiculous thing. I understand that in sports, there's been betting where team like player individual players have made maneuvers to have their podcast by, by say, winning by with, you know, below where they were supposed to win so they could make some money. So right. Yeah. But like, you watched the game and you're like, how would you do that? What was part of the plan for our guy to miss a 42 yard field? Well, by hitting the post, was that his plan to play? Because he's that good. Yeah. And there's too many players. There's too many people involved. Like anything can happen. Like there's too many variables. There's this, you know, you got 22 people on the field playing football every single play. Like who, how can you, you know, it has to be quite the conspiracy. It's not like like boxing, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What would be the advantage to though? Like you're, it's like, you got a guy's that have dreamed of this moment. They're entire life. Like everyone, I think like that's the only thing I like about the Super Bowl is it's the one time all those players forget their millionaires and just want to win. You know, that's why college football is that way. It's because yeah, because they're literally playing to win. It's, it's a different thing. So, um, but yeah, it was, it was fun to watch the replays during my, I was working a lot last time. I used it as a great night to like work. I caught up on all the nice stuff like this morning. I was able to relax a little just because I worked so late last night because I was away because I can. I'll get into tomorrow's work now. Yeah. Thank you Eagles and Chiefs for doing that because if Georgia was playing, I would have not worked. Is it, isn't college football on Saturdays? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, now and now they have games during the week two in the States. I was going to tell you this, Ron, if you saw, but they're apparently starting another league in April that sounds like it's going to be kind of like Canadian football. Oh, I don't, I don't know what it is, but it's just proof that Americans need football to survive. It's Oxford. Right. You have to like start an offseason football league. Yeah. They're like, we can't just stop. These people will die. They will die. I did, I did hear an interesting thing. They, I don't know if you saw this, Ron, and maybe you can, you will know this because it's you. Was football started in Canada? Yeah. It was actually invented by Canadian. Yeah. So, see, I saw that on a thing and I was like, no pause. He just went right into it. What? What was his name? And what year was it? And what? Yeah. He was my mom like to make Well, I don't know. I don't know about a Canadian. Yeah. But a Canadian also invented basketball. That was also invented Canada as well. Yeah. So Americans, this is what we do. We steal other people's and then we make it our own. Turn it into a business. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, it's not. You guys did this. We're going to go take a, and make millions of dollars and then steal your best players to come here. And do you remember, do you remember the interesting fact that told you about Canada, but what our national sport actually is? This is an interesting, Ron. Scott. Drop it. What drop it? Yeah. I mean, what would you think? What do most people talk about? Yeah. I would think hockey. Yeah. It's not. It's lacrosse. That's lame. I mean, that the lacrosse isn't necessarily lame. But we're going to get it. You're going to get a stick to the face for that one, Scott. That's not right. That's not Canadian. That's not. I mean, I guess, you know, but not like hockey. I think a hockey. I think of pancakes, the people syrup. You know, I think of those things when I think of those are like the first two things that come to mind. Right. So Ron, obviously Canadian hockey is the best hockey in the world. I don't care what anybody says is Canadian lacrosse, the best lacrosse still. Are they the best players in the world? You know, I'm not sure. I know like American lacrosse. Yeah. Well, he doesn't know. He doesn't know. If you want, if you like the best place to go to play lacrosse, I think is still a lot of the American universities. Right. Some of those schools have like, you know, the big budget lacrosse programs. Because I know some Canadian players that like, go, yeah, I want to get into whatever Penn State play on the other cross team or whatever. Like, it's like, you know, that's where all the money is with, you know, nice league, big leagues and, you know, you get notice, but I know there's no money in like the pro level. So, you know, that's one of those things. But there's also box lacrosse and field lacrosse. And there are two different games. Like field lacrosse is a huge field. Lots of big long passes, you know what I mean? And then box lacrosse is played in like a hockey rank. And guys get checked into the boards and fucking there's another one. It's got freaking slammed and it's like real tight. You know, so there's a lot more contact in it. Yeah. So there are two different games. And I know a lot of guys play one in college and then they come back and play the other one in the off season on like a league, you know, like, it's, it's like, you know, that sort of stuff. But it's a rough game. All I know is out the cross ball that we used to roll on our laps and our traps. If you want to know, oh my god. Oh yeah. I knew a guy that was a goalie and he'd be covered in like big wealth, you know what I mean? So, yeah, things, but I think would be, I feel like more brutal. Like, I mean, boxer obviously frozen and very, very hard, but majority of your body is covered. So overall you're doing okay. There's a few spots to your body. You definitely don't want to get. But did I never tell you about my buddy that had that had the rupture to kill his tendon from a slap shot through his skate? Oh yeah, I do see that happening. That's good. Your whole skate is useless when it comes to pocket hitting it. Yeah, he got, he took a slap shot in the back of his heel and it actually just punched his Achilles tendon right off the bone. Didn't go through this aid or anything, but just the pressure. Yeah. Yeah. Just like when I said my buddy's toga popped right off through his shoe, remember? I was thinking about that. But it was just one of those, like he got hit and then all of a sudden he couldn't get up. Yeah. What's wrong with my foot? And he took a skate off as Achilles tendon was completely detached. Yeah, there's there's situations with bulletproof vests where it may not penetrate, but the deformation at the back of it just presses so hard that you still get all torn up and ruptured organs and all of that. Yeah, pop your pack off or something like that. Yeah, can we point out that he's a hockey player because his Achilles tendon ruptured and he's like, which one would we move food? I literally, I was just watching because I follow all these hockey IG channels and there was one that I wish I could remember the athlete someone watching will know, but he comes up and she goes, man, he just messed up with my teeth and he's talking to the trainer goes, well, any more really, really loose, do you guys go, just hands one back to him? Oh, just pulls it out. Does he even, does he look over shoulder hands it back? The guy takes his tooth right back to business? Yeah, yeah, that's the actual I love those things and didn't know. I love those classic hockey moments where like one of the guys that goes to the dressing room and then he's back like 10 minutes later with stitches all across his lip and he's just like, ready to go. I have that, well, I'm in here. I wish if I didn't have my beard, it's a permanent scar now, but I took a stick underneath and back in the day, this is really unbelievable for it. If you had the right trainer, let's stitch it for you. You just go back and they stitch it real quick. They did a good job. They'll deal with it later. They just put it where we're there. And then you just go back in and then after the game or whatever when you get home, you'll have it stitched up by a dock dock. What do you mean you got a stick on what it like, what happened? Was it like, you know, a guy tried to like lift up a stick or something and he messed. So his stick came up and hit me in the chin and the problem is is it's like the caught like a boxer's cut because it doesn't cut even. It explodes. So your cut isn't even. So then when you end up with a dock, what they'll do is actually re-cut it and then you just give you a straight stitch. So it looks cool. It's not a bit nothing is worse than getting a stitch without anything. That hurts like a mother. Yeah. You can feel the string pull through. You're like, okay, I'm not tough since I thought I was. Yeah. Oh, God. What I mean was seven. I'm kidding. I'm kidding. I'm watching. You know, I told you guys I've been watching Lettercanny and yes, there's some there's some violence on the ice there. Oh yeah, I'll sharpen. Yeah, and I'll see a guy surezy is named people about your show. They'll know sure. He'll he'll take a stick and he'll just crack someone right in the side of the leg with it. Would nobody's looking. Does that really happen in hockey? Yeah. Well, especially like, you know, the more old time you go, the more that you get. Okay. But the but ending, that's where Scott, like the end of your stick because doesn't have the blade on, that's up on your top hand. Yeah. You'll come next to somebody and just slide it out like a pool stick and fucking hold on the side of it. Oh, yeah. Just come right up under the pads, try to get right up under the pads into that bottom rib there. And I can miss shot for them. So how's it going? I know there's people that that are known as fighters. Like when I was a kid here in Detroit, Bob Probert on the wings was known as like a rough god. And there was like so many stories about him, like local news stories that Bob Probert was involved in that probably didn't make it national. You know what I mean at the time? Yeah. Just all sorts of different things like he was at a bar and this happened kind of stuff. Lots of that back then in the 80s. So I know that, you know, you'd get a guy like that, but does everybody have that is everybody fighting or do you just have like those certain guys? No, every time. Back in those days, every team had a character like that. There was a forester. That's his job. Yeah, his job was like, you know, if you go, if you go give Mario the mu, the fucking, sorry, and there's another one. That it, that it, you know, give him a little rough dirty shot in the corner. The next shift, that guy's on the ice and he's hunting for you and the raps not looking. Okay. He'll whist for something in your ear as he hit you too. Like, yeah, don't touch let me you. Yeah. I'll blow ready. So I'm not touchables. I wish it would go back to that. It was not touch. Let me you. It was a better time. There's some great videos like I follow a few pages where they throw the old ones up. But it would be so great because it's like, like, and it would be like Ron and I like two friends and like, you know, you're just in the middle of gaming, Ron, just look over and go, he want to go. He's like a face off and I'm like, yeah, it's fine. Yeah, there's a puck drop, you just step back and drop the glass. What you do, they'll fight and that's the best thing about the old days as you would fight and then if it's a good fight and you would beat the piss out of each other, you get down on the raps coming, you go, hey, nice job, Ben. And you're just to get off. No kid. Yeah, if you're your team up, you know, if you win a fight, your team's fire it up. Do these still let guys, do they let you fight like that nowadays or is that all cut out or that we're more this year than it has? It's okay. It's starting to, I mean, it's not like it used to be, but it's good to see there's a couple players now that have good or back to making it part of their resume. So it's good to see. That's so funny. You don't see that. Like imagine you guys watch the Super Bowl, you know, they're imagine like the Super Bowl. Yeah, yeah, over at the 40, you know, and hockey fights, hockey fights are sorta like there's something about being on skates. Yeah, that makes them, that make them less dangerous. Like you can still see guys get knocked out, but you gotta remember like, you know, what happens when you shoot a cannon in a robot? Yeah, you know, half the power it was out the back. So you see guys on skates and you see their bodies like moving like this because every time they punch, there's like a loss of power. Yeah. So even though they're big tough guys, you know, like no one's ever gotten like their head smashed in and died, right? It's not like two guys fighting on the street. It's like, do you fall down? Someone's got a bloody lip. Refs the whole year apart. You know, it's being a big hit. I got knocked out. We just changed the guy that like hits his head on the ice after the last one. Yeah, that's like, yeah, that's why we're good. They've made a rule now that you, so guys start to take on their helmets off. Which is what we used to do when you're in the juniors because I was under age. So if you were under 18, you had to wear a mask and the other guys didn't. So if you're ready to fight, you would step back and take your helmet off and then you would fight. And now they, even in the pros, you, if you take your helmet off, there's an extra penalty for that. Oh no, because because they're being mindful of what if you fall back and hit your head. I mean, there's been some crazy stuff. I mean, this year, not from a fight, but the sky of Andrew King got his wrist stepped on. Ooh, right across it. And literally immediate hospital, like, could have died. I mean, it was like a brutal freak-in, since I've never seen in my entire life. With the blade, with the blade. Yeah, I got to escape. I mean, just perfect placement. Step right on, sliced it right across the fructo veins. And he's back planning. But, you know, he came back at the next day. I'm kidding. No, he actually hit his surgeries. It was actually a big thing. But it was scary because like, he went down and he immediately seemed grab as a resting or straight to the bench. Like he knew. Yeah. Yeah. Like straight to the bench, straight to the hospital. You know, please don't die situation. There was a player back in the 80s named Clint Milarchachuk. He was a goalie for the Buffalo Savers. And he actually grew up right next to me, like just a few farms over. So I knew where the Milarchachuk's were from. And I knew that he made the NHL. And he was like, a little bit like, you know, six, seven years older than me. And he was the guy's, there's famous footage of him on YouTube. If you look up Clint Milarchuk, he did resisted an crash into the net. And all of a sudden, this big pool of blood just like, and he's a famous throat. And a skate blade just slashed his throat. Oh, crap. And that was one of the things that triggered like a whole bunch of gollies to start wearing that plastic thing that kind of hangs down on the two rows. Yeah. Yeah. So like a plastic shield and it just loose. But it just kind of like hangs around there and it moves with them. And so he had his throat slit. Yeah. And I mean, I was a close call. I mean, he was surrounded by medical staff immediately. But I mean, you know, that would happen on a pond somewhere, playing hockey with his friends. He would have been dead. Yeah. And so that was like a big deal because he was from my hometown. And I was like, Oh, it's huge. He almost died. Like, you know, yeah. So yeah, get rough. A lot of people don't know to a skate actually has two blades. Yep. That just people think it comes to like a blade like a knife. But it does it. Yeah. It actually comes straight down. And then it's concave on the bottom. It's carved out. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So there's actually two blades really, really close together. So you can be on your inside edge or your outside edge, right? So there's always like an edge. It's really digging. And when you're gliding straight, you're actually gliding on two edges. You know, so they're super sharp. So when you get your skate sharpened, it actually goes down the middle and it like carve out the, you know what I mean? Huh? Yeah. It's kind of neat. There need if you look at them up close. Fun fact that I have no idea how we got here. This is a little factor. I've been What's a show called? What's it just hockey? It's just violence. It's just violence. We're 30 minutes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This'll make for it. This'll make a good Saturday release. We use this as our Saturday show. This is why we don't see the number at the beginning anymore. For those loser viewers, we have that have nothing else to watch. Oh, this is I think our Saturday pro away. Our Saturday people, there it's more of like, okay, the weeks over. We're just hanging out. We're hanging with Ron Dusty and Scott. And we're just shooting the crap. You know what I mean? That's the Saturday show. Right. Oh, so we're doing the Saturday show. No, then that this means that I'm expected to bring my aid game when we record the very next episode. Exactly. I hate to tell ya. But this is my aid game. This is a little fast. This is a stuff I had prepared. Oh, man. Okay. Okay. Okay. What's on the agenda? We're a few weeks out from the Arnold boys. Yes. Yeah. What's going on? We're seeing some videos. We've seen video of Samsung. We've seen some video of Rami. What is going on? What do you think is going to happen at the Arnold's? Most importantly. The change in. Most importantly, I think that anybody who's going to I made a note. I was like mentioned the Arnold classic because we're going to do the live podcast. We just wanted to tell people that that if they come show aside, I want to hang out with everybody. So if you're coming to the Arnold come out to the mutant booth and maybe you'll catch us to a live show. We haven't discussed what day. We're going to do that yet or how that's going to work out. But all the days, all the days, just a three day podcast. Yes. Yeah. All the days. I don't even know what. And this is I just say it. Are you guys helping anybody for the Arnold amateur or anything like that? You guys have anybody doing that show? I'm not but. I'm going to send this to you Scott because I think this is very worthy of going up here. So a friend of mine who used to do a lot of tissue work for me is doing it will be his second show. Okay. Because his first show is coming up next weekend and tell me that this is not a very solid. Oh, nice classic competitor. Tommy, Michael training partner is actually training him. Tommy's working with him. Nice. Oh, he's a good shape too. Yeah. You're the shape of a lifestyle. And Ryan Simpson's his name and I cannot wait to see him compete with the Arnold. Yeah. Bongers. Look at the glutes from the back. I mean, just yeah, he's looking tight. He's looking tight. Man, crazy up top through the last shoulders in chest. Like kind of freaky and you know what I mean? That's interesting. Yeah. He's got to I mean, got a cool. I did not look like that for my first show. Yeah. Right out that I did not look inside out for my first contest. Yeah. So very excited to see Ryan at the stage at the Arnold. And I think he's going to shake things off, which is fun. And I'm sending you a quick video. You know, obviously, you don't have to play a whole thing. But I want to give a shout out to Guy, I'm helping my buddy Alex, Mujuto, Alexander, Mujuto from Germany, but he lives in Canada now. Nice. And I've helped him for a few shows before, but he's going to go down and hop on stage. You know, he's, you got the video? Did you get it? Yeah. Then come through. Yeah. When he comes through all all throw it up. Yeah. It was a little big, but just throw that up there when you. Oh, yeah. It's still singing. Still singing. Still singing. Hey, I'll tell you about. So I want to my longer term clients. Homsa is going to jump in the Arnold amateur. And here's the thing. So he, he decided to do this last minute. And he's got a whole bunch of stuff lined up this year, including Ramadan starts literally like right after the Arnold. And then after that, he's got a wedding to prepare for. He's getting married. So it's like, if he's going to do anything, this is it. And he was like, hey, I think I can do this man. And I was like, dude, I don't know man. We've been working for a long time in this off season. Do we really want to, the video came through. So I'll turn that up this like, do we really want to, you know, do we really want to do a rush prep for this? But he's coming together. Here's a picture. I, if I was prepared, I'd show you guys pictures from like six weeks ago. But like he's, he's bringing it down fast. So oh yeah, you know, he's not going to be like his absolute most peeled, but he's going to be a good shape man is quite a large like man. He'll be respectable, you know, he'll be respectable there. Right. And then I think he just wants to mainly have fun too. He's a guy, he loves the sport. And you know, he just wanted to compete this season. So we're like, yeah, we'll make it work. So he's 100 you guys do for this show. We started like maybe six weeks ago, something like that. I'll really fat to begin with is what you're telling me. He's really fat. And honestly, man, he's lost a lot. Like he, I'll see if I can poke, I got the video here. I'll throw a bronze guy up here. But I'll see if I can find one of the pictures from like six weeks ago. Oh, yeah, he was good man. So he's about 22 here. So he'll be, you know, it'll be a very top of the heavyweight. But, you know, nice shape real very nice. Bellies. Yeah. You know, and he's a real good one. He trains real hard, trains real basic, you know, not a ton of sets. He goes, you know, really, really hard with with very respectable weights. Yeah. No. So the glutes are, glutes are in pretty good. You know, he's got a couple pounds to lose. But I mean, it's all, yeah, it's all there. You know, he's he's pretty tight shots here. Here we go. Yeah. You know, everything's pretty tight. It's really solid. Yeah. So, you know, I'm looking forward to seeing him up there. How tall is he? I'd be like five nine, 10, I guess. Okay. Okay. Yeah. He looks good. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, we're pretty happy. You know, I think it's going to be his best look ever. And he trains real hard, you know, you'll complicate it to get quads like that. Real complicated routine. He'll do squats. And Smith squats and leg press and extensions, like really revolutionary exercises. Yeah. Yeah. You're probably doing like that craziness where you do like 12 reps. It's wild. Yeah. Yeah. You know. So, he's got a nice, they really, you know that, that just nice clean flow everything just doesn't exist. There's nothing that looks in the way. You know, like, oh, what's that? Just yeah. So, I'm looking forward to seeing him on stage. So, the only problem is he's on Thursday, right? You know? So, like, I'm going to try and go a day early so I can get down there. I wasn't sure like exactly what the schedule is going to be like. But we'll figure it out either way. Doesn't matter if I'm there or not he'll be on. So, here's Hamza like six weeks ago, six weeks, it should go. It looks like that. You know, so yeah. So he's got a nice easy six weeks. Just enjoying. Oh, dude. He's been grinding. He's like, well, I'm able to still sleep. Here's a different shot of him currently. He's like, I'm able to still sleep. Okay. It's not that terrible. So, he's he's coming together. But yeah, it's yeah. I would love to give him more time. You know what I mean? I'd love to see him take it for another month. But, you know, life comes up. He's got Ramadan. And, you know what? And here's the thing, too. Every, I think everybody who participates in Ramadan has their own level of what they want to do. And for him, he's like, man, I don't want to cheat it. I'm like, if I'm going to fast, then I'm going to really fast. He's like, I'm not going to try to, because I work with guys who are like, I'll stamp all night and I'll eat all my meals. And you know what I mean? That kind of thing. Yeah. Right. Right. A lot of few of us do like three monster meals. Yeah. It's within their time that they're allowed from them to understand. Yeah. But it's like, I'm like, well, I need you. I need you to rest also. And like, okay, we could fit three in then. Yeah. Yeah. I have so much respect because the amount of food that these guys when they're just one will put in in three meals separated by like, you know, 95 minutes. Yeah. It's like, yeah, I kid. I helped a guy with who had Ramadan to work around as well. And he would have a massive meal. After dark. Yep. Then we go to bed. Then we get up in the middle of the night. And he would drink a really high calorie shake. Oh, yeah. It was like easily a thousand calories in a shed. And then you go back to bed. And then he'd get up early before the sun came up and he'd have like a good breakfast. Yeah. And then, you know, and then you go along day, headdy, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And okay. I worked with a guy who who got switched to midnight. And he was like, I'll just keep doing my normal thing. You know, it wasn't a problem. It wasn't a problem at all. I'm just sleep when I'm fasting isn't that what we all do. Yeah. Yeah. That's awesome. I think it's good though that people see that because it's shocking to me. How often people find like the smallest hurdle. And they're like, I guess I can't do this. No, no, yeah. What? You know, it's like they broke a nail. And now they can't do cardio today. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's definitely an interesting thing. Because then you have guys in the other inspection like that. And I mean, giving up sleep to make sure that they can keep progressing. There's really there's always a way if you're dead ass serious about making it happen. And without, you know, breaking what matters to them most. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It is a good example. It's like, oh, you work a lot. Okay. Try not eating at all for the whole day. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. That's a shocking thing. Okay. So we never actually made any armor predictions. Oh, yeah. That's right. I still have one. Yeah. I I I I cannot bet against Nick Walker. Yeah. I saw a video of him doing extensions yesterday. And I was like, oh, you're like, Scott, picker even better. Right. And deeper. And you're better. Yeah. I just I think he is He's the one and people and in what I love to is everyone wants him to win. They want want him to not win for like three or four more wins and then they'll hate him for no reason. Right. What? Yeah. His his legions won't turn on him until he wins in Olympia. Yeah. Once he gets a second Olympia. Yeah. That's how they hate him. Yeah. I was wins. Yeah. But I think I think that he is the the obvious choice and he doesn't mess. He won't mess. So there's that I want Samson to be in second. Yeah. But I think you can't. Good. It's possible. Yeah. I would love it if he cemented his place there and seeing some of the old pictures of Rami back in the day and seeing him now. He's a guy whose best days are behind him. I don't really care what anyone says. He can bring it and whatever. But he's he will not be as good as he used to be. And I think for for me what bodybuilding is about is progression. These guys are coming up. So I don't you know like the guy I great to but I don't want to see his less than best days be enough to win and I don't think they are. Right. Right. I don't care where he places. But I want to see a team just come in shredded. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. That would be cool. That would be really cool to see. I'd like to see. Yeah. What? What is best placing ever at an Arnold is? I wonder. We could stop when I once got in a tights. It would be great to see him like you know, set a new standard for himself at this point after you know there's many shows coming in like really rocket and blast into the top three would be crazy you know. I'll have to do some research on that. But I show I'll dig into that. I'll we're you guys at that in a moment. I have to do some things and stuff. I don't think it seems done that many Arnold's. I don't know. I mean I guess I felt like for a while he was doing all the shows. So I loved about a game. He was like always competing. Right. I don't think the fans realize how freakish he is. No, I guess. Yeah. When you see him in front of you and it's just meat hanging off of a bird structure like his bones and his waist and I mean they're so small and it's just slabs of beef like at the freaking grocery store just hanging off of him everywhere. He has an extremely cartoonish relaxed look. No. Yeah like standing like as in literally relaxed standing there. I remember I could pee with him a couple of times and I always used to laugh because like I got a you third or fifth one year when he and Michael Lockett were one in two and I was like, ah, that's token blocky like that. That's me. Lovely. Just having you made it in the mix of these flakes. Yeah. Yeah. I'm going to guide Justin Rodriguez to in a show like this. You know, considering that he if he brings it, I mean he's proven to be a dangerous competitor at times where where where's the best let me ask you this guys where's the best he can place in a show like this if he was like completely on. Well he was taught five last year. Wasn't he was he fifth before something like that. I mean because he was on stage. I remember that. He's always when I made. Yes. Justin's in the mix needs to stop competing. Like he's like a bikini girl. He does every single show and he hasn't had a big jump in improvement. It's like he's always been that guy. I feel like if someone would grab him and say, don't compete for eight months. He would suddenly be someone that's all and everyone's radar because he could walk out drastically better. As is, the best he could possibly do is squeak into the top five in my opinion. And I don't see that happening based on the fact that he's always competing and he's and he also has a new coach every other day. So that's how I hate it. I think the guy's phenomenal. But if I here's my thing, Justin, if you ever hear this, the only reason that Derek Lunsford took second of the Olympia is he listened to me after the Olympia last year. It was no one else. It's not that he had a brain or everyone else already knew this. He just listened to Dosty on his just body. Yeah. Yeah. He blew up and he is now the second best body to learn the planet. So if you do the same, you could do the same. You walk. So I have to go ahead Scott. Okay, I was going to say this. I'm looking at a team's placing. Now, first of all, I do want to mention, he's been around for a long time considering that he won. Probably 20 here. Yeah, super heavy weights at North Americans. He took first and then he took the overall as well. And then after that though, like looking at where he's done really well, if we go to 2019, Arnold Classic, he got ninth. But then Indie Pro, second. And then after that, he got third at the Arnold South America, then Big Man Pro out in Europe. He got second. And then New York Pro, he got second. Then he dropped down to ninth in the Olympia. Then from there, his best Arnold Classic in the US was a top five. He got fifth place there. Okay. We were up last year or the year before. That was 21. Yeah. Oh, okay. Yeah. So very recent. Okay. Well, I have to admit that I'm increasingly excited to see Andrew Jacked because of the coaching changes. And I just feel like, you know, I don't know a lot about Chris cycle Lewis. I just know he trained Rodin the Uri One. And I know he does a lot of volume and he just hammers guys and, you know, they're busy. They're busy in the gym. He's, you know, I know he likes to do some unique looking exercises that involve a lot of extra pads and altered machines. And he does a little bit of the Charles glass thing. But I know he trains people very intensely. And then with a pseudo, obviously, you know, I think when you have a pseudo as a coach, you're removing a whole bunch of horseshit that doesn't need to be discussed or put into your head or you know what I mean? Like just all the nonsense that you can just imagine gets pumped into a guy like that from, you know, a lot of other people. And when you work with a pseudo, you don't get any of that stuff pumped into your head. So I'm really excited to see what happens. Who we get to see this combination again, you know, someone pushing him really hard in the gym and not, you know, not holding back at all and then a pseudo looking at the pictures. And I think that who knows, like I'm just excited to see what happens. Because it's not like Andrew Jack is like been competing for 15 years and there's not much you can do with them. Like he might be, I mean, how old is he? He's like 37. No, I think he's older. I think he's in his 40s. He's 40s, something? Yeah, but he's just young on stage or doesn't matter. Yeah, but his body building age is body building age is five. So I talked to Chris yesterday and I can't be specific because I don't know what should be, but they are working him very, very hard. So I expect to see him come and ridiculously. I mean, you know how Chris is. We will worry about how you feel after you win. You know what I mean? Yeah. So yeah, it's exciting. We chat for a bit yesterday and we know how Chris is. You just tell the grind in him and it sounds like he's more than up for the challenge. So it'll be exciting to see. He will definitely bring something much better than we've seen before. 30 asked by the way. There we go. I asked Chris. I asked Chris and said, what do you think the most important thing? Like what do you focusing on with Andrew? And he was, I just keep telling him he has no idea how good he should be. That's it. I'm like, he's not even like, I really worried about the food. You know, you have no idea how good you should be. No idea. And so I thought about that and I'm like, that's just totally Chris. Like, just keep pumping his brain full of that. Like, I'm not impressed yet. You know what I mean? Like, just that sort of thing. And I mean, you know, I don't know what his other coaches were telling him, but I get the impression his other coaches were telling him, oh my god, it's your amazing. You know, and I know that that's not Chris, you know, he'll he'll tell you you're pretty. If you're pretty, you know, you know, this is a great look. This is a great look, Brando. Yeah, you know, if you're pretty he'll tell you, but at the same time, it's not it's not going to come in. He's not going to flood you with compliments. It's, you know, he'll let you know, but then it's back to like you could be better than this a lot better than this. And I think that's helpful, you know, I, I'm not a fan of that, like just constantly, you know, there are people out there they want you. And I guess everybody's different, right? Like every, every, and maybe that's why different athletes will fit better with different coaches. But I'm not a fan of that. Like, oh man, come on, champ. You know what I mean? You're the best, you know, all that stuff. Yeah. Yeah. And you know what? One of my favorite things about Chris is, and I think it's one of the, I don't know, just because of my personality, it, I appreciate it, right? But just everyone's in a while when you'd have like you'd run into an issue or, you know, a day where, you know, you're something came up. You're looking at your pictures and not, what's going on with the weight? You know, like, that's the thing. Chris had this way of just like dropping a J story. You know, just dropping a story like, I remember when J was getting ready for the O3 night of champions and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and I said this and he did this. And then, you know, a couple of days later, we were past this issue. Yeah. And just his, his, him telling you these stories and just kind of centering you that, oh, this is stuff that everyone deals with. This is like stuff that he's seen a million times, you know, there's no panic or anything. So I don't know, that, that jelled well with me and, you know, maybe maybe Andrew's responding to his style really well. So we'll see what happens. Yeah. You know, with a guy like Andrew with a genetics like that, the lasting he needs is a coach that's going to be telling, oh, you got to switch to like organic potatoes. Yeah. Yeah. You know, like 27 times. Trust me. Yeah. Yeah. Like, what do you imagine what a colossal waste of his time that is to get that type of coach, you know, he needs someone who's going to get in here and like drive that, you know. So I don't know, that's my opinion. I don't think people realize how relaxed he would get sometimes like my last couple props. Chris would say 30 minutes of cardio. But we need to know what to do. And so I would do what I was doing and then he would up the cardio. Yeah. It wasn't like, step mill, like I tell clients, honestly, I'll tell him like step mill, 72 steps per minute. You know, I want to make sure I know what they're doing. Yeah. He was like, do 30 minutes of cardio seven days a week. All right. Let's bump that to 40. All right. Let's take it out today. You know what I mean? Like, I didn't know if he would necessarily know ever what I did. He would just know what was working. Yeah. Same thing with gear. You know, there'd be the times that I know Ron's experience says you'd be going along. And you're like, so do you want to put anything else in? You're like four weeks at his like, what are you taking? I'm like, uh, test and master on. He's like, now we're good. Like, okay. Yeah. You know, because you're just kind of like close and then you're like, I'm taking two things and he's like, you're looking good. Maybe that's why he looks so good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right. And other times you're taking five things. There was no, you know, there was definitely he did tell me one point. And I actually adopted this for my competitive clients. He's because he would keep a file on us like old school like paper. He'll send you pictures sometimes. And he was, yeah, after you compete, I throw that away. Yeah. I've heard you've heard that before. Which makes sense. I want to, he's like, I don't want to ever be tempted to go back and look at what worked before because it doesn't matter. Yeah. Yeah. It's funny because I keep those files too, not on paper, but on the computer. But I never reference them. Like, I want to have them. And I do like to look at the pictures sometimes because I'm like, yeah, I wonder what he looked like, you know, a month out from the last time he competed. Then I'll go back and look and compare. But I never really look at, I have all these diets from years and years. And it's like I never, I never used him for anything. You know, I remember Chris told me he had somebody compete and they want to show. And I don't remember what show it was or who it was. It might have been an amateur show. I don't know. But I go, uh, I said, oh, so what now? And he sent me a video of him taking like a do attend like, like, and just dropping it in a garbage can. Oh, what? Like, you know, we have like all of guys notes and like a binder like a file. Yeah. And I go, what's next? Because that next show next. That's crazy. That's why. Yeah. But I imagine it's to the point where I mean, how many diets can it keep? Yeah. You have to have like a whole garage. You need a room. Yeah. Yeah, you need just, you know, you'd be like, like, you know, like that, like one of those government file rooms. It's been there. Crowd hanger. They're like, you know, actually worked in there to go get the file for you. Can I? Yeah. I would think of those old way matters. Yeah. Oh, wait. You know, 1997 USA's and he disguised file. So evidence room, actually. Yeah. You have an instrument. Like, yeah, like that last scene of Raiders of the Lost Ark when they're putting their car. Yeah. Okay. No one remembers that scene, but me and Scott apparently. I remember that scene. You know, it was a call. That's how I'm talking about. Yeah. Yeah. We watched the movie. I didn't know. And no, it wasn't it wasn't it wasn't that movie. You guys wanted me to watch on to remember the name of it. It wasn't the Green Mile or I can't even remember the name of that. I'm trying to make a think with them. Yeah. Yeah. That shot. Shank Redemption movie or whatever. It's called unbelievable. Your wife just left you. But we see what it's like. We watched War Dogs. Oh, yeah. War Dogs is pretty good movie. Isn't that have Jonah Hill in it? It does. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I'm going to tell you the whole time I watched that. I, and this is, I, this is the second time I've seen it. Both times I've said to myself, they should make a movie about PJ and Aaron. Well, times when I see that movie, I think of them. And I think to myself, this, they would be great for a movie that would be so good. I would love to see this. There's the other guys. Jonah Hill. I don't know, actors. But I could look it up. And then a movie. And refresh my memory. They just wind up like kind of falling ass backwards into becoming arms dealers, right? Yeah. Miles Teller. Okay. But they just like accidentally become arms dealers. Don't they? Well, Jonah Hill is an arms dealer. Like he's kind of like found away in with his own cooler, something like that, but then he keeps doing it. And then he gets his his high school buddy miles involved. And interestingly, I don't want to throw any names out there. But one of our listeners and Patreon supporter actually works for the Department of Justice. Because they basically they were trying to, they had a big deal. And they tried to pull a scam on the US government. And what's the job? Yeah. There's a true story. Her job is to find out when to figure those scams out to make sure that the Department of Justice isn't getting the scam. Which that's kind of that's kind of interesting. That's like literally her job. I like how you broke this down. You weren't going to tell us then you said she was a patron. You said you were a girl. Then you said her initials were SM and then you were setting up. I said none of those last things. That leaves a lot of people. And there's no way anybody can know who the Patreon people are. Email listeners. Yeah, there's only seven female listeners. It's not making. Okay. It's not my mother. Okay. Now we know it's not my mom. Totally understood. I thought that was kind of cool. Yeah. I dipped in. I dipped into the last of us. I watched the first couple episodes just to get a feel for it. You guys watch that show? No. I heard of it. The last of us? Yeah. No. It's not going to play a bass on a video game. But it's like an apocalyptic. You know, the world has been ravaged by a telephone gun. It's almost everybody's fucking, there's another F bomb for you. I appreciate you're aware. It's important. Yeah. It's important. Yeah. Well, it starts with awareness. Yeah. Change. Change begins with awareness at home. Okay. But yeah, last of us, the first two episodes have been pretty crazy. It's really interesting. It's, I was hesitant because of that. I want another zombie show. But they're not zombies. I mean, essentially, yeah, same thing. They're infected. But it's a really neat premise. Like, it's a fungus. It's not a virus. And it's all based off a real fungus that I've read about before. There's a fungus that gets into ants, and it gets into their brain. And it takes control of them. Yeah. And it makes it their mission to spread the fungus. So they go and they try to spread the fungus to all the other ants. And then there's some of them. They climb up high. The, the fungus takes control of their brain. And it makes them climb up really high above an ant hill. And then their head explodes. And the fungus rains down all over the ant hill and it affects as many ants as possible. And so the premise is what happens if that fungus evolves into humans? Something triggers it to have to evolve to survive and the evolution that happens makes it so that they can just happen to live in humans. So now we've got this fungus invading humans and taking control of them and making them try to infect others and they're very violent and it's interesting. And then one of my favorite little things about it is, you know, the whole thing with zombies, it bothers me is if they don't be rotting. Like if they're dead, they would be rotting. They would last like a few months. And then all the zombies would just be useless. And they wouldn't be able to move because they just rot. So they wouldn't all last a winter like this is done. Like so that's why I was at a problem with zombies. But the catch with the fungus, the angle with the fungus is that the fungus produces penecillin. So it keeps the body from getting infected. So it's left a lot longer. They do break down and obviously if you like blow their knee cap out, they can't walk. But they're not like slow like they're running full speed at you. Like they're like wild animals. Yeah. And they're they're just have no like their brain is taken over by the fungus. So it's pretty interesting. Obviously I'm only two episodes in, so it still could go down the toy that pretty quick. So we'll see what happens. You know that there are like there are, there are fungus that do attack ants like that. I mean they don't do it. Yeah, there is a little bit of an empty. Yeah, they're just crazy to think that there's quarter subs that can do that. Yeah, the thing with the ant climbing up and then it's exploding. Yeah. I know that like there's a real thing like that's just crazy that that's something could evolve to do that. Yeah. It'll like make you wonder holy smokes. You know some of this stuff. Yeah. Okay. I'm gonna be careful now. Yeah. I'm gonna be careful now. I'm gonna fungus. How many seasons is the fungus show? Well it's just one. It just started. So they're coming out like it's not even all out yet. You know what I mean? So you can't do that. I can't do that. I need to wait to get done. Yeah. I need to get caught at the end. I'm I watch Mayor of King Town. You know what that is? Yeah. Yeah. I haven't seen it, but I heard it's great. It ruins my life because then I like the episodes and I'm ready for another one and there isn't an owner there. Oh there isn't another. I mean I'm ready and I'm waiting until next week it's terrible. It's not a way to live. Yeah. I want to I want to test your your thought on this wrong because you probably actually know the answer. But I was talking to my friend Rob about how shows like crank, right? Like suits and all these shows and then all of a sudden they start to dwindle and he told me that oftentimes what it is is the writer wrote four seasons. Yeah. We had a plan for four seasons and then it starts making a ton of money and exactly it's like, well, right another season. He's like, there isn't another season. They're like right another season and that's why shows tank after a certain amount of time because there's not many there are not many writers out there like I can't remember his name. The guy who wrote Sun's America is like, nope. Six. Yeah. We're doing. I knew it from the beginning. That's all we're doing. It's the end and it really made my mind think, I'm like, that's what happens because so how many shows you watch it like, yes, yes, what the. It just departs from like what it was and you're like, you have to watch in the same show after and you don't realize it right away. You know what I mean? You get like halfway through that season. You're like, man, this is getting bad. Yeah, that happened to a few shots. That's so weird to me. Yeah. That makes sense. If you think of a show like suits for example, the whole premise is that Mike doesn't actually have a lot of greed. Right. Right. So you're on a very limited timeline until that gets discovered. Yes. Right. So they managed to what they chewed out what three seasons before everyone found out about that. Yeah. And then they found a way I can't say because they have to like, they found it a way to make one for him. Yeah. Yeah. It looked that looked to be real like, you know, so in a computer system it was real. I mean, that show tanked the last season I regretted watching. Yeah, because we loved it so much. You know, yeah, there's a lot of stuff like that. You could tell the writer has a great idea. But the premise wouldn't get by everyone for too many years. Yeah. That's how it is. That's how it is. That's how I feel about about oh, she's what that's called the Yellowstone. I'm like, yeah, the feds would be in by now. There's human bodies. Like, I'm sorry, but the whole this is just Montesan. It doesn't really work anymore. There's too many dead people. Yeah. And certain characters like Beth in Yellowstone. Oh, yeah. Like, let's make the most horrible resentful person we can create. And you're like, wow, what an interesting character. But after three seasons, no one would want to be around here. Yeah, no one. Like, she would just be like alienated from society because every single person would be like, you're so toxic. You can't even be in the same room as me. No one would be around here. Like, she would be de-family. Like, there's no way there's still having her at dinner table to do all that crazy nonsense. Like, it's just not going to happen. Yeah. I agree. Like, you know, usually you hate a character for a while. And then they, they somehow tone them down enough for the altruums so that you can keep them around. Like, they just kept the gas on her. And then they put her with the character that everyone loves. And you're like, he would not do that. He'd be like, itch. You know how many women I can have. Real need you. Yeah, you probably killer himself at that point. I know. I know. I do have a couple of bodybuilding questions. Should we save them for the next uh, in the next episode? Should we save them for the next episode? Because I've got a bodybuilding topic for the uh, might, there might be good for the Wednesday episode, you know, so we can call this great. So we can, so we did the Saturday show first. We did. Yeah. That's, and that's, this is why guys anybody who said, I like when you say the number at the beginning, this is why we don't do that. This could be