. Yes, sir. Yes, there we go. So I'll start here. We had a training question. We'll get it. It's a judge. It's a judge. It's a judge. It's an interesting something. Okay. So it would be awesome. If you guys could explain how you would set up a back day for thickness and a back day for width. Okay. Well, I, I've done that before. I've trained back twice a week before with that strategy. And I'm not sure if I think about it as with versus thickness. I guess I tried to not think of it that way. But what I did do was. Was sort of set it up with like rows and dads on the one day because there was so much lower back stress. So one day was like a bent over, you know. Sort of barbell row, cable row, hammer, maybe a hammer row machine and a deadlift. And then the other days were like pull downs and stuff. And, and that was just because I only wanted to stress out my lower back. That way once a week. You know, so I didn't put like barbell rows on one day and then like, you know, T bars on another because I just tried to keep all the kind of bent over hard lower back stuff on the one back day, which is, you know, rows and dads. And then the other day was a pull down day. But I remember purposely trying not to think of it as width versus thickness because I don't really think that way. I just think of like getting the lats and traps and everything to grow. So right. But yeah, that's all I did it. Scott. I would say, you know, I would say the same thing that I don't like specifically think like this is for width and width. And this is for thickness so much. I think of splitting it up in, you know, pull down type movements, row type movements, and then hinge type movements, like a deadlift type movement or, you know, a rack pull. But I'll tell you what I've been experimenting with with some guys lately. We've been doing for the last couple of years. The people I work with have been doing a lot of push pull legs heavy progressive overload. And then we started experimenting with with say, for instance, a guy wants to bring up his back and his chest. Then we're doing push pull legs and then next workout would be back. Next workout would be chest or chest and then back. And for those days, instead of the heavy progressive overload, we're doing a little bit higher volume, you know, instead of like top set back offset. We're doing like three sets and maybe using a machine now and using, you know, using things that almost put a governor on it like. Trying to say maybe take shorter rest periods between sets using constant rup stuff like that. And because I think I think at the end of the day is awesome as progression is if there's anything left on left on the table. You might be able to pick that up and get it with a little bit more volume. So and especially if we're doing all progressive overload all the time and you do that for like five months and then we go to this. I think bringing that volume in and getting like the like the circle, placemake, high purchase fee as they call it getting the more like the round bubbly look from, you know, more reps. I think that that works nicely. So I would almost think of maybe splitting your workouts up into possibly something like that where you're really hard, really heavy progressive for part of it. And then think about maybe really trying to volumeize the muscle as well just to thought. Okay. Interesting. What about you, Dusty? That was awesome. Which now have to change the subject of it. Scott, you have another overall winner that happened to be from here this weekend. He didn't win the overall. He didn't win the overall. No, he didn't. But thank you. Yeah, heavyweight. He won. It was his first show. Chad shut up to Chad. Yeah. He, he won his true novice class, his novice, the novice overall and then he won heavyweight first show. So in any any took second overall. So he needed a couple more weeks, which we have. We're setting up to do two shows. So we're going to do it again. And two more weeks, strong dude. I should get a picture of him. You guys, like he's got, you know, you're just watching him. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not sure. I didn't know. You got to pull that up. I know. So I, you posted his girlfriend had posted it and you shared her story or whatever on yours. Yeah. Yeah. I clicked on to see what was because of your client and I'm like, wait a minute, I met this girl. No kidding. I was in for, yeah, because I met, but I was still stone after my sickness when I met her, but I do remember media. But, and it all connected because I went to his page and saw that they owned a jam and I was like, oh shit. That's wild. So yeah, look at you. Thank you. You can blow on people. Yeah. Good job. Good job. I appreciate it. I had no idea it was just for show. You got to look for an awesome. Yeah. This isn't like his people. Thank you for this. Okay. So this isn't his final pictures. This is just one I happen to be able to find like on the spur of the moment. But look at these quads on him. He's got some, like, so and it got, it got stronger. Just dancing. Yeah. Like everything is like stride in his legs. This is, this is from a little while ago. One of the pictures he just kept a deer drop say like his tear drops are big. Yeah. They take up a lot of his leg. Yeah. Yeah. So it was a freaky tear drops, man. Really cool. You're both powered. His wife is a power of the two. Yeah. And like, like, I bet I bet he was quite a hard person. Oh yeah. I was of course, it was a rabbit hole situation Scott. Like I clicked on yours. I clicked on hers and I can see it on like halfway down his page or whatever you do. Don't actually like something the guy's gonna think I'm a stalker. Yeah. Like six months ago. Yeah. Yeah. It's how it looks like a province. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah. No, it's the, like, the question. Same exact thing. The only thing that I do recommend for people is on, I did describe it as thickness and width because it's the same shit. Yeah. There's other terms I like. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But it's like the only thing I always did is I always would suggest they did one of the other movements on the opposite way. So like we're doing a thickness day. I'd open you up with a lat pull down or something first and then go get started. I always like doing that anyways. I mean, the majority of my workouts are only a couple movements anyways. But I always felt better doing my width work first, my ratchins or whatever. Because I felt like my back was open. So that was time to bend down and do a dead left or whatever. I kind of felt like prime. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I actually think I did that too. I think there was like one, you know what I mean? And then on the pull down day there'd be at least a hammer row. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. It's important. Yeah. It's important. Yeah. Or a cable low or something like that. Agreed. Yeah. Okay. Good question. Okay. I got all distracted. I think there's a comment. Not a question. But Brent said working at a client's today got this blasting in their new outdoor sound system. Thanks as always for the great content. And I said, so basically you're about to get fired. And he said, no, I'm self employed in the client is a fan of the show also. I don't have a school man. That's amazing. Hey, that is funny. That is funny. I had a new one. I had a new member sign up at the gym the other day. And I just happened to be there. So I'm behind the counter. And I think I was covering like they went to the staff when to get food or something. So I just happened to be behind the counter. And he comes in and he's like, hey, it's one to join. And I was like, oh, okay. You know, but the plan, how'd you hear about the gym? And he's like, oh, yeah. You know, a friend's train here and all this. And I like signed the guy up. Yeah. And then he goes, oh, good episode less week by the way. Yes. That's a cool. And I had to make sure I go, I go, are you talking about the mutant on a mission that came out of the podcast? And he goes, oh, I saw that too. But I watched your podcast all the time. So he actually saw both. That's cool. It was just funny. It made me laugh because like, you know, he didn't let on at all. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Well, yeah. Like he didn't really like any Ron or what I'm doing there. It was just cool. He's like, oh, that's one join. You know, so it's kind of funny. They're out there and they're sometimes keeping it to themselves. Yeah. Morgan's got one for us. So it's best they go again back. Question for the next episode. What would you guys do to pass the time in between meals during prep when starving? Also any calorie dense food concoctions when trying to get huge. So he's starving, but he's also daydreaming about getting a lot of food. That's always so it works. You're dreaming of offseason in prep. When you're offseason in force feeding, you're like, God, I can't wait to just be shredded. You know what? I think the ultimate little weight gain snack. Easy to get down. Calorie dense. Lots of calories. We all get enough protein. Yeah. Well, you're trying to bulk up. You don't actually need more protein. You're eating like fucking 300 plus 400 grams. The big guys, you know, guy hit his size probably 400 grams already. So if he's hungry, it's not protein. He needs just energy. He needs peanut butter sandwiches. They are peanut butter sandwiches. Two pieces of toast with a bunch of peanut butter between them. That's good. That's delicious. They're sandwiches. They're sandwiched with them toast, by the way. Yeah. It's going to be toast is better. A little toast that you got to toast it. Yeah. Anyone peanut butter to kind of melt inside a bit. Peanut butter sandwich, toast with peanut butter sandwich, easily the best calorie dense snack. And passing time while starving. Hey, I sat on a couch and played a lot of guitar between meals when I was competing. I played a little bit of John Madden football too in my early days. I'm not going to lie. I would. I thought, hey, it's good enough for Chris Cormier and Flex Wheeler. It's good enough for me. So I would. I would. I would sit and play John Madden football in the early days in the 90s between meals. You know, now a day's you have no excuse to not be making money at least on your phone. Yeah. There's like, you know, back before phones you did actually have time to kill. You're like, well, what are we going to do sitting in this condo by myself? Like literally just, you know, what do you do? Do you guys remember that bodybuilder Eric Finkhouser? Yeah. I remember him doing this video where he played Madden while he was on his elliptical. Yes. And he was like, when when my guy would run, I would start going faster. Well, faster. I tried to do that with like a call a duty style game on my tablet. I swear to God, like within 30 seconds, I was going to fall down. I was just like, because my guy had to have to turn him and then like to not turn on the treadmill. It was dangerous, man. I had to stop. Yeah. That's her right. I tried to sit on the bike and play like even just leaning on the console riding the bike and play. Yeah. But I, I just for some reason I just didn't like it. I was like, nah, I got to just be chilling out to play. Me too. I'm on the bike. I want to just be in my head and I'm a music blast, thinking just thinking about something. Or I just want to watch TV and just be entertained. Yeah. You know, I don't want it. I can't handle the effort. I can't the physical output of coordinating my fingers. I'm not into it. I'm with you. I'm with you there. Okay. Yeah. So musical hobby. You know, we're in something by a drum set. Pist your neighbors off. If you can't want those electric ones. What about you, Dusty? You know what? I was fortunate that when I was bodybuilding the most, I still on the businesses. I didn't have free time. Yeah. And I think that's a curse. I think it's funny to a lot of people these days. They're like, I have get ready for a show. I think I'm going to take off two months of work. And I'm like, why? That's a whole different thing. Yeah. Yeah. It's so brutal. Yeah. It's so much easier to literally like, I had to put alarms in my phone. So the alarm would go off. So I need to drop everything. Eat the meal and get back. And then I did have a couple of perhaps what I was done with the business. It was so much fun. It was so much fun. I realized I was hungry. I didn't have time to realize I was hungry. Like you're busy. I mean, literally, you know how this is. You guys have both been there when you're slammed. There's no, I mean, if you imagine Ron, you're trying to prep now. Like you do it, but there's no time to think about being hungry. Yeah. So I always consider that a blessing to be slammed. You know, because I did like I said, I did it once or twice. And too much time is, it's also, I think a lot of people that have idle time to realize their physique's too far, whether you're in question every little thing they're doing. Like it's not that I was just so confident. I didn't have time to worry about it. That was Chris's job. Yeah. I went to eat. I got to go. Yeah. I had a bunch of people comment this week about what you said about Chris Isido. I had a couple of people say they just died when he was going to say, will he eat a potato even if he doesn't want to? Yeah. That's just, people thought that was so funny. And my training partner, he said that he loves how Chris boils everything down to just like the little, little thing. Like how can you take like, you know, take this concept and just make it this will feed a potato. Yeah. Yeah. There's no like context before that. There's no back and forth. No. It's hard. But if you know, just understand, you're like, I know what he means. Yeah. Yeah. I laughed. That was great. I think that's the best advice though, that the stay busy thing. Yeah. You know, I think that my first prep, the company I worked for, I was a warehouse manager and the company was going under. And so I, I wrote it out and got laid off. And I was like, okay, this is good. Actually, because I'm prepping for a show. And I'll take this last couple months and just like live the lifestyle and it was brutal. You know, like it was brutal because it was just me sitting on the couch and on the message boards and listening to podcasts and that was it kind of sucked versus the next show. I, my, my girlfriend was competing and I was helping her and I had a job again and I was super busy with that. And I remember her show was two weeks before mine and I was at the show and people were, I was like, I was way, like, it was, I mean, obviously I had more experience, but I was in way better shape in people were like, oh, what class are you in today? Because they thought I was competing by looking at my face and stuff. And I realized like, I should have done that show too because I was definitely ready for it. And it just, it dawned on me. I'm like, wait, I'm two weeks out. No, like I got through it already. You know, you realize where you worked, you're so focused. Yeah, I'm so busy. So fucking busy. Yeah. I remember prepping for a show when I was going to college full time. And then I remember just like it just fucking flew by. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You evaporated, you know. So, okay. What's the next one, buddy? All right. Kevin 21 says I have very long arms and very short tricep insertions because my triceps and halfway up my arm in a t-shirt, I look like the asshole that only trains biceps. Or should I embrace the dark side? Well, by dark side does he mean time to start juicing or does he mean like shoot the shit out of him and hopefully just like look okay. Even shooting him when work is already there. That's great. Yeah. That's a change on everything. So two things you got to do. First of all, you have to be very selective about your t-shirt sleeves. I have always been very selective. You have either have to be like to the elbow like like they shirt or they have to be high enough up the biceps that my triceps shows, you know, like decently high up and snug enough that there's no baguiness like, you know, there's a very, I'm very picky about sleeves. Especially now that my arms aren't as big as they used to be, I really want to make sure that they're not like being out angled by a poorly fitting sleeve. It's an important concern that every self-respecting retired body builder needs to keep in mind. And that's why sometimes chop chop. It just takes the sleeves right off. Like Newton has this one shirt that says train like hell on the back. Yeah. And I love that. I love that shirt because train like hell's like one of my things that I would say. And I like the shirt. Nice and widen the shoulders and it's got a long hang, got a good hang on that shirt. You know, but the sleeves were wrong for me. So that's one of my sleeveless ones. You got to go sleeveless in that one for me. Dusty arms are big enough. He can probably just push him up and they'll stay. But I was in so every, everyone knows that I'm the asshole that doesn't train biceps. So maybe this guy and I should meet in the middle. Right, right. Right. But fuck. There you go. There's that look. Like the look of the guy like when you're around average size people that train and they definitely do a lot to make sure you see their biceps. But then you see a big guy like when you guys and you know, you're at the expo or something. And then there's the guys who just wear a t-shirt and they don't try to do anything with it. And you can just see under the sleeve. The sleeve might come down to their, you know, their elbow almost and you're like, oh shit, that guy's arms are fucking huge. Like that's me. That's the goal. Like look like that. You know what I mean? That was always the goal. I had this. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like like I gave Ian Valera like a five X West Coast iron shirt. Yeah. That we had and it wasn't like a tight t-shirt. It was like made to be like a norm like a bigger shirt. It was like one of our old ones like, you know, one of those cotton gildens that we had early in the day, right? Yeah. And I gave him like a five X and the next day he was wearing it in the gym. It was like busting on his arm. Like it went all the way to the elbow. So you couldn't see any of his arm, but it was just takes fucking. Yeah. And I remember just like look, I gave you a walk up and just started with like a razor and cut the shirt. It was just like, just split unfold. Yeah. So when you got arms like that, yeah, it doesn't fucking matter. But in my case, I have to like pay attention to the angles, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Anything else you're going to add there, Dusty? No, it's it. All right. Then we got one for you from Gabs. He says question for Dusty. Does Malanatin to affect tattoo color just got a fresh blackout sleeve? No. What's a blackout sleeve? If it's right, I think it is this entire armage black. Just black. Yeah. I've seen people that's a thing now. Okay. Yeah. But no, because while Malanatin works, it's, it's a pigment issue. So it has nothing to do with an artificial ink putting your body. So no, it won't affect it at all. Okay. I didn't like the Malanatin stuff though, because I found all like your freckles and everything else also get darker. Yeah. And then eventually you get to that point where skip was for like 10 years where you're like a different color. And I'm like, does this know and tell them? Can we not tell them? Can we tell them? Do you tell them? And we were at the Arnold a few years ago. I'm walking around with skip and people were like, hey, good luck this weekend. This is going to start the Malanatin. The plotting is in fucking tape. Poppin in masters. Yeah. Good luck in music. Good luck this weekend, buddy. Like people who didn't know them and stuff. Yeah. Just like amazing. Well, plus he's always in shape. So I could see that. Like he's got veins. Just flying down. I don't know. I was just competing. Got protein on these sliced. Yeah. Oh, that's good shit. I remember when I first met him, I thought he was transracial. Actually valid. I thought he was like, oh, you know, identify as African-American. Yeah. I don't know whatever. So I went with it. I went with it. I went with it. Yeah. No, he had a good 10. Solid 10. Excellent 10. There was like a couple more and they maybe were like drug related. Let's see here. Quick question from Andy Boy. He says, maybe for the next show, why wouldn't we be able to use debol alone if it's a testosterone derivative? I understand it shuts off HTPA function, but it wouldn't be any more than injecting testosterone anyways. I understand when he invent anover, aren't testosterone derivatives, so taking them without test wouldn't be a good idea. Thanks guys. Love the show as always. Well, first of all, I'm not a scientist. But I can tell you what I've seen personal experience. Everything is dose related when it comes to all these different drugs and what the side effects it. You hear, oh, that makes you watery. Well, it's dose related. Right. So, the overall would traditionally be something that I think to take an effective dose of debol would probably result in more water retention than an effective dose of testosterone by itself. Yeah. That's one thing I might venture to guess. I don't know. I remember my first cycle of debol. I blew up on water and my first cycle of sustenance. I only had like a bit of water on me. So I'm not sure if he's able to get anti-eromatees and, you know, romatees inhibitors and stuff to try to help, but I don't know. I think I'd rather prep on just test. I've done it before. And I got shredded. Yeah. I don't know if I'd want to prep on debol alone. It just doesn't sound like something I would be, you know. Something I would do. And then as far as just taking whiny or anover by itself, I mean, you could totally do that. I did. I'm not like you're going to have a constraint or anything. In fact, I remember one of the most shredded people I've ever seen in my life is this guy named Bill. And I remember from Australia and I asked him, what are you on? He was like a middleweight. He was just ungodly like next level disgusting, like, you know, the most strider human ever seen up close kind of. And he was like, oh, I'm just on Winstrel on Climbing. I'm on. Okay. You know. So that's my experience with that question. You know what I mean? I mean, my answer is who said you couldn't do that? Yeah. I was going to throw people in the game. Like, those related things. You got to find that. I never said that. Yeah. So I mean, I guess for me, the only reason that I would make a blanket statement, like that would be why? Like, why would you avoid test with it? You know, or why would you, you know, because I have found great success on keeping test very low while doing other things. I've definitely learned since retiring that I think I was running test higher than I ever needed to the whole time. Mm. Okay. Now now I feel better, lower, and do the other things as I want to. I'm like, oh, I don't think I ever really needed that. I mean, I'm not doing the exact same things, but, you know, as far as, uh, and a pseudosim, there are no rules and bodybuilding. That's my advice. Right. Same thing when somebody says, do you think this is a good cycle? I'm like, I don't know. Try it. Like, you know, if you want to run that whole by itself, why not? But to me, if you're going to go on something you're going to throw your hormones off, I've just always been in the mindset of then go on and go big and get done with it. I know. No, as opposed to fucking you up because I took 50 million rounds of deep ball for six weeks. Yeah. Right. Right. You know, so worthwhile. What can I say? I'm ready. I'm going to ask. I'm with you guys and I'll just add the, I think my only fear of guys who do oral only cycles is that I think that if you were to do it once, okay, more power to you, as you kind of see what things are like, if that's all you ever do and now you're like, hey, now I want to do another cycle and I'm going to now stack it with wind stroll and, you know, you start doing stuff like I think that down the road, you would probably deal with more health consequences if you were only relying on orals. So I just wrote out there to him that like, hey, you want to get your feet wet, okay, cool, you know, but yeah. Yeah. I think this one, so we have one more from Raiden Sky. And I think this goes back to Dusty talking about moving shots around versus just sticking with the basic stuff. How many milliliters would you put in each muscle group max? Like arms, less thing glutes, etc. I do armage more than glutes because I don't think you should put shots in glutes, but that's just me. No, as far as milliliters, my experience is actually the needle becomes the problem with guys who are who eventually see hatch feeling that careers over. It's actually taking shots over and over with a, you know, larger needle. Like guys are saying now, like if you can use smaller pins, even insulin syringes, that would be better for those types of things. It's not what I do. I just 231 all the time. And I'll put two milliliters in one spot. It's never been an issue for me, but you're going to have some discomfort, maybe. But I've always done the same thing. Get done taking a shot. Of course, clean up. Take the shot. I'll usually, before the end of the night, take a massage gun to it again. Kind of break up that. And that's always been successful. But try things yourself and see the biggest thing is just the moving around is my obsession. I just, I hate seeing, for example, the middle doubt is the spot that so many guys just have this lump. And I'm like, you don't see that. You don't want to see it. You don't want to see it. You're not going to create. Yeah. I mean, keep that in mind is all as exactly what runs into. You're not trying to create muscle. You're not trying to, you know, how do I get a peak? Not by putting a bunch of shots in your biceps over and over one spot. Just stupid. Right. So weird. Yeah. I moved around, but I would also say just take what you're comfortable with. Because I always wanted to be able to hit my quads just because they're easy. And they're right there. I did twice. Both times it was near death experience. I was literally like hobbling. You know, somebody, like, what did they call that back in the day? Like it was somebody with knee in the side of the leg. Charlie Horst. Yeah. That's what it felt like for three days. God. And I know guys do it all the time. I have nothing. I'm just a bitch for some reason. I don't know. Some guys love quads. I wish them and my most horrendous experiences of my life were quad shots. I was like, if you're a lie, fuck it. It's counting women. Everything. Yeah. It's fucking terrible. It's one thing if your shoulder hurts from a bad shot or you got to sort of try set. When your leg is so fucking sore, I can't do anything. It's like, you guys will be on crutches for like three days. Like I've lived or lived around this in bad quad shots. Yeah. I feel like when you do a muscle, this is theories. So no one right me and tell me how I'm more on. But I just thought if you had shoulder, your arm, your moves so much that maybe it breaks up quicker. Right. Right. Everybody's like, what do you want to show on the way around? Much. You know, your arms kind of handle themselves. Oh my God. It seemed to make sense to me. Don't move. And if you think about it, your your vastus, ladder Alice, the outside of the quad, doesn't stretch much when you bend your knee all the way. No, it doesn't really have a like it's range of motion isn't that long. It only goes like this. The, like you can fold your knee right to your your heel right to your butt and your side quad doesn't really stretch tremendously. You know, that's what I mean. I mean, you're like a delt. You don't even think of stretching. You can just reach your spine. You can just reach your spine. I think the range of motion. There are belts. No big. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know you're lifting your spoon to eat your cereal. You're just like pumping that shot out of there. You know, this is all, you're, you're helping yourself by eating cereal as you're the point of the story. There you go. I'll only add. So dusty can do to in a bicep. If your bicep is not as big as dusty, then maybe you want to do less. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, a lot of bicep there. There is that if we're talking to someone who has like, you know, 15 inch arms, maybe less than two. Maybe. Probably. Yeah. Right. Okay. I have. I have. I have. I have. So I had a couple questions saved and then I had Instagram questions. But I figured Instagram questions would be the next episode, right? And how you want to do it? What's the reason? How many we got? I got in trouble last time for ending the show. Probably people were very heated. Very heated. We, I think, I think, one thing I think we should have done differently last week is if we're going to record two episodes. The first one should be the heavy hitter, the longer show. Because, you know what I'm saying? Because we like came in with a bang, but then it was like, oh, it's only 30 minutes. People were like, dude, somebody actually said the other day they're like, gone or the days when it's just body building was enough, was an hour long. You just need a few hours long. That's why we did it. Because we've gone for a while. We've gone for a while. One of us gets really fucking busy. And that's the fucking do a short episode. One episode. One episode. One episode. Oh, man. The honor of the days. I remember when I was young and actually Ron and Scott, would actually care about their audience enough to give us 60 whole minutes. He selfish, Fox. I get punished for doing things one time. I get a hooker once it's a problem. This happens right. Right. I got to go see him. He's going to bleed here. I can only record until 11 a.m. Because I'm dusty and I do things at odd times a day. Can't help with the family's going. I got to bring the hooker. Yeah. I have those to myself. I'm not using it. Sorry. I take this. Okay. We're here. We'll just randomly throw some in. What are your saved questions, Ron? So I had one walking the line of getting truly peeled. The last stubborn fat areas that aren't in lower back glute already been dieting for six months. Two weeks out of my foreshow, there's still a little bit on my glutes. I have no problem pushing hard of dieting for months. But it seems like my personal level of hardness. I just can't seem to get the fat. The last bit off my glutes and get them striated. I just feel like I'm getting skinnier and not harder in your advice. That is tough without a shit ton of context. Yeah. Bigger. It is possible. And I've done this myself where I've lost muscle. I've lost 10% of quality to get 1% leaner. You know what I'm saying? So like I lost. I wasn't as good. The dust these six weeks of hell later were lost to the guy six weeks ago. So I'm not going to say that that's not possible. The question is, is striation versus conditioning. Because for example, look at Jay Cutler from the back. And he's peeled out of his mind. Look at his glutes. Now think of Ronnie and Kai. Look at their glutes. Look how deep those striations are. Now look at how big their asses are. Yep. That's a big factor. When you have more tissue, you have deeper lines. So it is feasible that you are as lean as you can get as much as your glutes are going to come in. I do think that if some mistake, some of you guys make, it's like, well, my triceps aren't striated like leaf priests. So I must not be in shape. Well, no, you're just just don't fucking look like that. So that's a possibility. The other thing is, you know, are you taking measurements? I think that's key. If you're starting to worry about actually if you're losing size, that's the way to know. Because it's a little scientific data. Yeah, you should be absolute. Because if you don't have that, then sometimes it's your mind kind of trying to convince you to not push further. Because I mean, I think John Metos, the guy like eight water for weeks on end to get peel out of his head. And I don't think he lost any size. So it has any engine that extra drugs or anything else. But the point is, I think a lot of times people are convinced they can't go further because mentally it's hard. Diding for six months is impressive. Diding for three weeks and complete hell is also another thing. Yeah. Yeah. Well, one thing I would say is, you know, there is a possibility. It's rare. But there is a possibility after Diding for six months if he's come down a long ways. Maybe he needs to eat for a few days. Maybe he needs to up his carbs and fill out a bit for everything to pop. I mean, it's possible that he never really filled out. He said he's doing his fourth show. I mean, it's possible that with all the shows close together, he never really, you know, filled out and he's just doesn't realize that, you know, there's maybe there's a bit more pop therapy. If he was kind of done Diding and that's the trap some guys get in is they think they have to keep pushing because they're looking for those cuts that aren't there. But the muscles just so like they're just so dieted that there's no cuts, you know. So it's like that endless, endless pursuit of something that you've passed. It's like in the back, it's like behind you and you've run past it, you know. Yeah. Because you know, you do see guys like I have seen a couple of guys where they eat for three, four days after a show and the glutes are more strided for sure. Right. For sure. It happens. It happened to me once. Yeah. It was one time. The Sunday after my show and my glutes were way more strided. I look, I couldn't believe it. It was the only time that I'd ever happened to me. Yeah. I ate an entire large pizza and a leader of ice cream and a bunch of fucking junk and just junk and guzzled like a gallon of water and went to bed and look up in the morning and I was fucking, I just was so, I was like, oh my God, the fuck did I get a little faster? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was 2008. I was 2008. That really sucked. Only time that I'd ever happened. I just got too depleted. I just got really flat the week before I didn't run out flat I was. It can be hard to fill back out, you know. Yeah. Remember my own in a week, you know. I remember my glutes had like all the fibers but they were like dancing around kind of faint, you know. Right. Like you could tell I was shredded like people backstage were like, oh man, you ripped. There was like there was no push, you know. Right. And then the next morning the glutes had like crunch to them like crunch. And I was like, oh, I always watched this yesterday. I would lose it with my legs. That's where I would lose it. Yeah. The quads, the quads were way harder like the difference between being shredded and being shredded and hard. Yeah. And it wasn't until I actually kind of figured something out, talking with skip about it because it was like dude, you're not losing muscle because I was like, oh, I lose muscle going into a show, you know. He's like, you're not losing muscle. You're just not filling out. And I, the analogy I've come to use is like, if you wash your car at home and you've got that sponge in the bucket, if you go out in the spring here in Michigan, we don't wash your cars in the yard in the wintertime. But in the spring you go out and you fill that bucket up with water and you drop the sponge in it. It's like it doesn't just absorb immediately. And I feel like that's what my legs were after, you know, pounding them for eight weeks of dieting real hard at the end where you just stick that sponge in the bucket and it's resistant, you know. I versus if you can. If you can refill them, you know, regularly, you know, the next week you come back out and that sponge just absorbs. So I feel like that's the best, like that's the mental picture I have of what my legs would do, you know. Yeah. If you're washing it, that's what you say. Yeah. Yes. Exactly. So it's good. Do we have anything left on the YouTube? Nothing left on YouTube. We didn't have anything else on YouTube. That was all we had. Yeah. Okay. What's the latest news going on with the Think Big Channel Scott? How many shows do you have going on now on this channel? You know what? Us doing two shows is made people's week that they're really enjoying seeing us more frequently. So that's I think a real highlight right now. And people are really enjoying the drugs and stuff podcast with Dave Crossland. So we do that one. We do Blood Sweat and Gear. We've got one of those coming out each week and every other week or so we do a muscle mine. So Scott Stevenson. So that's kind of like the regular schedule stuff at this point. What is we? Blood Sweat and Gear. What's the main like jam? That's what I did, right? Yep. Yep. We were just on that and Ron, you were on that one a while ago. And both of those episodes did really good too. What's different with that show other than obviously hosts? Less we got talk about hookers in blow, you know? Little less. Yeah, it's more like a coaching Q&A kind of show. So we're just bodybuilding and blow in hookers and shares. Exactly. Exactly. That's written a real small writing under our eyes. It's just Bible. And there's a list of shit. And we have a really cool announcement coming soon. Yes, we've got. We just we just finalized something that we're really excited about and it's going to be good for the podcast. It's going to be great for you guys. Yes. Because it'll be great for us. So anything that's great for us and makes doing the podcast, you know, better for us and more productive and make it look better and sound better and be better and all that sort of stuff. Yeah, excited. I'm so I was going to tell you guys that I forgot about this. So last every Tuesday I go do my smoke night and we're sitting there and the podcast came up because a bunch of the guys there now are in the bodybuilding and discussing. Oh yeah, they got a great podcast and his wife is there and she'll go what's the name of it. So I said, oh, it's just bodybuilding. I kept going and then she goes, it's just bodybuilding. She goes, the titles of your shows are interesting. Yeah, I was like, what you mean, it starts rattling off. It was like, it's on her phone. Yeah. I think it's kind of the joke now. It's really not a lot of bodybuilding anymore. She goes, well now I have to listen and I got a text. I got text like two days later from him and he goes, she loves the show. That's great. She doesn't watch but has nothing to do with bodybuilding at all. It's like this is amazing. So I think the the blow and hookers blow and whatever really got to go. That's a line that'll rope anybody in. Yeah, you got to click. I don't care who you are. Even if you don't play a friend, so you're going to click on that. Oh, and yeah, you know, like everyone from like, you know, high school kid to the Mormon dad. Yeah, I see. What crazy blow. There's a lot of you gets every. But what I love though is now in hindsight now that I know she's watching. I'm like, she's got a totally distorted view of Ron because I was like, well, that doesn't. So you're saying you didn't get a hooker. Yeah, right, right, right, right. You're getting a hooker and you're, there's she doesn't have the story that let into that. So the fact if you just put all of our episode titles in front of any one of my clueless family members and told him to pick a random episode, it'd be like Chris Isido, John Meadows, occurs in blow. That's the one I want to. That's the first episode I'm going to pick. Probably. Yeah. Yeah, it actually made me think because the hangover came out and told you at the other day and it reminded me of that line. He's like four wolves and Vegas looking for cokers and cocaine. It was like, yes. And there we are. So I have to tell you guys a story before we finish this episode. Yes. Well, close this episode. I went and saw a top gun last night. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. See, what do you think? So the original. I had a lot of fun. I had a lot of fun. It was exactly what I was hoping they were going to make for me. Good. It was sort of reminded me of the force awakens, the first Star Wars movie since Disney, like the when Disney came back with the sequels in like what you're was at, you know, 2010 or whatever, whenever, 20. The 21st. Yeah, the first one back, which was actually I actually liked that one. Okay, first one back actually liked. But yeah, it was the beginning of the ruining. Just. But yeah, so the three the three sequel movies, the Force Awakens have like all these things that were obviously put right in there for my age group. We're making a new movie for a new audience. So they got the new characters and they got to appeal to like the new batch of kids and everything. But they know that all the 40 year old parents and people like me are sitting in the theater. So they throw in the Millennium Falcon and they bring Harrison Ford back and they fucking, you know what I mean? Like there's all these like awesome things that they did just for me. And I'm like, thank you very much. I'll selfishly take all of those wonderful little tributes who just gave me, you know, right? Yeah, not was the same thing. It's like the producers went and watched Force Awakens and they're like, okay, Disney fucked up the next couple of movies. But we're going to take this premise and we're just going to deliver that. And it was like, you know, Tom Cruise pulls the cover off his old bike. Yeah, I did like what? I was like, oh, I heard it. He's got he's got the new bike. Like when they're a couple of bikes there, I got a watch. He got the new bike once he, no, so yeah, the old bike when he was where he was, when they sent him off to a San Diego, he had the new bike. Right, right. He like pulls the cover off and gets on the old ninja or whatever. Yeah, what was that? Was that an old ninja or something? That was there. Go. And you know, there's like a 1985 ninja, you know, you have to make a new one now. Yeah, yeah, you know, and then, and then the whole like, I don't want to ruin the movie for people. There's a bunch of bunch of stuff like that. Yeah, you're like, oh, they're bringing in. Okay, here we go, you know, like, yeah, it was a bunch of stuff. You know, the, you know, a question whether millennials would actually know the words to great balls of fire, but still a great scene. I'll take it, you know, and you have to make it. So the character that they used could absolutely have been related to goose. Oh, yeah, great. Yeah, they did a great job of that. And the cast was like, I was like, what the am? I believe that in real life. Okay. Yeah. It was good. There was a couple of other things that really stood out. They, they clearly made a point of trying to deliver an 80 style retro movie. Like, yeah, I think that's part of the reason I got annoyed on someone though, because there were a couple of pointers like, okay, that was super cheesy. It's okay. That was cheesy. Yeah. Like they went out of their way to like, you know, so at the beginning, you know, like relatively close to beginning when they're introducing all the other pilots in that bar scene and their plane. Yes. Okay, that scene worried me a little. Yeah. Because it was getting, it was really getting cheesy like, you know, each character's walking into the bar, like making their appearance and they're all like, I need each other up. Oh, you're here too, you know. And they're all having their little showdown conversation moment and, you know, it was like, I was like, oh, we're going to do this. This is an 80's totally 80 set up like, but then they, they kind of like, they're correct. Okay, after that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Agreed. But I had fun. I just wanted to throw that review out and I want, and you know, what else do you think, Dusty, about that movie? Well, I think that the most important thing about that movie had nothing to do with the movie. It was that they have a $20 bucket of popcorn at this movie that I went to. You could buy for $20, but you get refills for the rest of the year for four bucks. That was not bad. Which is half price of a normal popcorn. And I came in, I wasn't even popcorn that day. I was, I was going to hold it tight and not eat popcorn and then I sat down and I'm like, what the fuck am I kidding? And I went back. And I bought the $20 one and the guy came back. He goes, this is the second to last. One of these buckets that we're selling. Just like in a way. Good call meant to be meant to be. So you got up out of your seat. Anyway, oh yeah, I laughed. I went back and I was like, that's a real decision made by you. It wasn't on the way. It was proof that I was impure denial of who I was that I actually walked by the first thing. I was actually embarrassed for myself. I came back up and I'm like, I'm sorry. I thought I was a better man, but I'm not. So I didn't fucking popcorn. So my thing is I get the large diet coke half ice. I'm like half the normal amount of ice. So there's more diet coke. And then I get the big bag of chocolate M&Ms. Right? I'm not gonna go ahead. Yeah. And I didn't quite finish the M&Ms. I actually like made a point to not finish them just so I wouldn't feel like a fatso. Let's talk about how much a better person Ron is than me. Because what I do is put the M&Ms in the popcorn and I finish. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, they go get the M&Ms and popcorn and all of it has gone before. Nice. There you go. Oh, we don't want to know one of the many reasons it Ron is a better body with me. There it is. I got something else. I wanted to ask you guys about. Did you either you guys I sent you a link on a group chat? This is the other day I sent it sent it. This was in regard to Ron you had that question about meeting body builders. And there was a video that somebody shared in our Facebook group. Oh, the Brad Hartland. Yeah, Brad Hart. I'm gonna see if I can just like wonder if I can play this. Oh, of course there's a commercial to start. I remember seeing that before. This dude, okay, of course I got to get a weight 10 seconds. But the just is just that. I know, right? Brett Hart. Now here we go. Let's see. Let's see if they go to another ad here. Nope. You know, when the body building thing started, it was, it doesn't like her. She's body builders and who likes body builders. I mean, talk about it. Zero's in life. I mean, there's nothing I can't say. Then go to body builders at all. What a total waste of your life. You know, because of the vanity. Yeah, just the vanity of just all day. You know, there's nothing special about body builders. And they lift weights all day. You know, what was your like beauty passion? Some people are, I don't know, I never had a fascination. I mean, I like a good physique at all. But the point of you know, obsessed and like body builders and the dieting and the whole thing is like, who cares? Like, I don't see any ability or skill in it at all. Same with that. That was amazing. My fellow tactics and individual. And as a group. Yeah. He's actually nothing special about them at all. I wanted to get your taste. So I'm this. So my take is too full done that. He's, I read some comments on that video before. Yeah. And one of the comments was someone explaining the context of what he had just been asked. So if you hear it the beginning he said when the body builder thing started. Right. And what he's talking about is the era of wrestling where they started bringing in up on to jacked guys. And they were really leaning. They were really leaning on the jacked guys. It was like when the TV era got in the Monday night thing was going up crazy. They were bringing in all these body builders is what he like. And then obviously he's got previous, he's got previous feelings about body building. You know, but they started bringing all the, you know, these guys that weren't necessarily the most talented guys. They just had like a crazy TV look. Yeah. And there was a bunch of resentment in the inside wrestling because there was all these guys that were seen as good workers. And they didn't want to work with these body builders because they were, they weren't good workers. They were too stiff and they were dangerous and they felt, you know, like it really caused some people to be like, fuck through these fucking guys that are getting a quick ride to the, you know, TV times and all that stuff. So there's a bit of that. But he obviously doesn't like body builders, right? You know, so whatever, I know he's from Calgary, you know, all the hearts are from Calgary. So, you know, he might have been training in Calgary gyms than the 80s, you know, 70s and 80s putting up with the early, you know, 80s body builders in the gym or something. I don't know. Yeah. Yeah. Brad Brad, Brad Hart's a good Canadian. I'm not going to hold the against. Body builders. I was going to, I was actually going to agree with almost everything he said. Was it wrong? Was it wrong? I was like, wrong. Like, I actually, I said it all the time, when body builders have a big ego, I'm like, really? Because you lift weights, eat food and take drugs that you feel special. That's in bears. Holy shit. Yeah. Yeah. I can't argue with him at all. Like, no. I got Brad Hart's good to have a ride. Yeah. Brad Hart had a stroke on his motorcycle. Totally shit. Like, almost died. And that to go through all the rehab from that and like rehab from the stroke and came back from all that and like, now he's, you know, it's healthy and as far as I know, he's, you know, grab on the ground. Probably. Probably. Yeah. I think once your hair is gray, you don't change. Like, however you, like the person you are when things gray up, that's like, that's, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, there's no more, like branching out in your, in your, in your friend zone. Is there anything like that? You're, you walk in your life. You know, you know, I think that actually, that's funny. So what was the other, there was a question. Didn't you see we were gonna, I thought I threw a question for you guys up on there. You did. You did actually, I can grab that really quick because I can't remember here. Here it is. You had said, um, it was about a movie. What was a movie that made you laugh so hard that your abs hurt. Yeah, that was one of the questions I got was name, name a couple movies that you laughed until your abs hurt. And I was trying to think of times where I actually, like, maybe lost it. And liar liar did that for me. liar liar was funny. Okay. That's a good one. Yes. Jim Carrey. That's one of his real funny movies. Oh, yeah. It's good. That was when Jim Carrey was kind of like, you know, the ace fin sure the whole absurd comedy sort of thing. Yeah. You know, a liar liar was one of those. Yeah, that was like, I thought that was a classic because there were so many things. I think like all good humor when someone says something that's funny that you agree with. It's funnier. You know, so like the scene where his where his son is telling him, well, my teacher says that beauty is from the inside. And he goes, that's just something ugly people say. And I'm like, yeah, that's such a classic. It's such a classic line. That's a good one too, because Jim Carrey really gets his physical comedy in there too with like, Oh, yeah. Like how react to be is like when the judge asked some questions and he's like, yes, I mean, no, like he can't, you know, like his hair all pulled sideways. Yeah, it's a good. I was I was remembering one time I I laughed until my abs. They were cramping. So I had ab cramps. I was hysterically laughing trying not to be loud losing my mind. I was probably a little bit high. And for sure. And I actually had ab cramps start to happen and I had to like bridge up in my chair. Yeah, stretch out my abs. And that was watching team America world police in the theater. You're taking it back. Yeah, well, you remember team America, right? Yes. With the dolls. You don't remember. Yeah, I don't remember it clearly though. Like I remember it, but I like the south park guys. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, to team America just killed me. I couldn't believe. And at the time, I just some of the jokes they had in there like when the two, the two puppets are fucking and oh, Jesus, the fuck. Yeah, just so hilarious. But yeah, that movie that movie fucking made me lose my shit. I was I was uncontrollably laughing and my abs started to cramp. And I was having a hard time breathing. And I was just fucking losing it. Yeah, how often that's never happened to you guys. But I was fucking losing. I have no, I don't know the, I've had like abs or face or, but I do like the embarrassing tears. Like you're actually. Yeah, oh, I was full on. I'm like crying. You're like, it's not that kind of crying. It's okay. I couldn't breathe as gasping for air. My, I was with my buddy James and he was laughing super hard too. But then he started laughing more at me. Yeah, he was laughing at you. He was like, Jesus dude, like you were going to die. Yeah. Yeah. He was almost empty. I remember that. There was like fucking nobody in there except a couple of people. So it wasn't that bad. It wasn't like opening night and I was ruining it for everyone. Yeah. Yeah. That's awesome. You have one Scott. No, but are we going to do two shows? Yeah, we should, we should. I just got on my Instagram questions. We should probably, yeah. We should grab this out. We should. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So remember like share, subscribe comment. Ring the bell. Ring the bell. And yeah, it's just body building. Thanks everybody.

I love that all even with the 212 I've been expecting the underdog because you guys remember I'm the lightest guy in the division still still yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah for me I'm always underdog any show I go into right right so it never leaves you never I thrive what that's what pushes me motivates me right I'm the underdog story going to show I'm giving up 40 pounds of all these guys it's funny because when it comes to two 12 shows I totally forget about the 40 pounds yeah oh yeah I just say O'Clarito's in it's so like yeah you know welcome everybody to it's just bodybuilding your host Bigron Paralo Dusty Han Shah Scott to produce a McNally and the giant killer 2 time 2 12 Olympia champ Sean Clarita what's going on buddy what's up I love that title 2 time yeah no I know well that's a number so yeah I'll edit that soon remember like share subscribe comment and ring up bell yes and remember YouTube comments get priority for questions if you ask question on YouTube scots far more likely to see it yes and also the think big Patreon thank you guys big Patreon members get priority questions answered so keep that up guys remember I am mutant dot com go to imu.com get your ice and surge get your all in and everybody should get on the gear hardcore there you go for an hardcore okay we're at Arnold classic day two Saturday it's crazy in here I just handed out the wheelchair Olympia title which is always an honor every year get up on the stage and give out that title to those guys they're pretty inspirational the mood backstage is a it's unique they they're they're they're just an interesting crew of guys and all have a crazy story and you go back there and it's a it's like extra super duper positive sort of a thing and it's good to be a part of so I'm always happy to make the quick little 100 meter dash to the stage to court that out of course and we have to let everyone know it this might be a two-part episode not mine yeah it will be because Arnold's gonna come by the booth and take a photo with the mutant crew because we're you know major sponsors of the show title sponsors of the show so he's supposed to come at 1230 but he might be showing up now at 1145 so we might have to take a break we got to take the cameras down real quick because Arnold wants to stand like right here like they actually those guys so they knew exactly what's going on right yeah put him in a box yeah like he's standing here the picture happens and they were gone snipers there yeah that's the case never knows he could service all that stuff so we're pretty excited so we're gonna go we're gonna go until we get what you get to look still George gives us to George gives us the panic look yes and then we will break and then we'll talk for 10 more minutes yeah I'll be blamed there you go okay so Sean we're at the expo how's it feel this year what's going on oh man it's it feels like the expo of old days in here yeah yesterday was pretty crazy which was surprising for Friday and we knew today would be a madhouse and it is an absolute madhouse right now it's excellent to see if it's again yeah it's a 10 minute bathroom trip yeah yeah that's the point you know Friday you can snake through yeah it's pretty quick but yeah it's it's that day there we go awesome well yeah hey guys we're excited the boot looks great I got a lot of comments on it we got a 360 boot this year everybody's here there we go yes everybody's here what's the thing about that we're you training or were you doing some stupid oh we're gonna go that's how you do it yeah get that back you all didn't see he was in the wheelchair yeah cats on his leg yeah yeah we might just show random stuff with people that you can't see on the camera but it's trusted there are people there so that poster hold holy hell man that's like one of those wild moments you know speeches moment you walk in he's huge I put him yourself yeah you got like a 20 foot head yeah it's like whoa and I was thinking about this morning I woke up like you know I've been come to the events since I was a young hungry and much of bodybuilder you know 130 walking pounds and never the money is ready to ever come to the Arnold ball place and see my face on a door where hundreds of thousands people walk through yeah for all of you understand not on a door on a group of doors yeah it's like it's like a giant wall it's literally about three feet walls of massive wall of clear either doing a crap shot crazy it's a we're gonna do a smaller one but he was so thick in that shot it was putting it away to make it heck yeah yeah yeah we're we're happy for you man is it you know last year you did the Arnold yes yeah you did the open right I did the open Arnold that was crazy mean big ramen stand next to each other on stage yeah don't what's we look nervous what's that like what's standing next to ramen like I can't remember where you laugh about it and you're like this is like Lou and Flavio back in the day standing next to each other remember that remember that thing is hot yeah we'll do that black and you know you pick that the biggest guy yeah you know two-time mr Olympia and you get to stand next to him in comparison honestly I was so motivated from you know the year prior when I wanted to open Legion my open debut I was came here right to win the Arnold last year right I didn't care who those say big ramen I was ready to take him and the rest of his guy's out but again beat up there with ramen and and and and Nick and you know Samson like just beat that first quote with these guys was like that's a real wow moment yeah me and you know and definitely a member of moment my career for sure yeah when they're when when you hear that voice ramen Samson Sean yeah yeah we all dreamed about that moment who else was tough up myself Nick Nick Walker right big ramen Samson and the end jack oh yeah yeah yeah no it's funny I met the point nowhere I've seen so many shows and also I've lost track of time because I could say oh remember when brand and one last year and then does it go that's two years ago or three years ago yeah yeah so yeah man that that must be something else like I don't know wait you know when you're doing the open shows like that what would be the you know I know they're all shows you enter them all the way and you train the same all that stuff nothing changes the shows the show yeah but there's got to be a little something that's different from the new and that show isn't big for exciting yeah I think everybody's watching to see what happens right can the the band away or the two-twig guy take off the rest of the guys and I feel like it's good pressure for me to really show up and show out and and make these people like wow yeah so that was one of the biggest storylines too it was viral for for weeks it really was you got you know myself regained an insurgio all those guys were 100 pounds bigger to me yeah and and here I mean dead smack of metal then I get the win is like everyone knocks oh yeah and it was like talked about for weeks well plus they all looked great too that's the same stuff that's all they missed and you're snuck in right that was the best I'd seen regained a while yeah so I thought it was it made the Arnold make sense yeah after that some people were like well we didn't think you could win that one he did so he was to say he can't win this half you know yeah there must be when you do a two-twig show you're obviously like I'm expected to be fantastic yeah and I'm expected to win I'm expected to be like and and is it kind of fun to be an underdog again is that part of the buzz always I love that I'll even live in the twos well I'm expecting the underdog because you guys remember I'm the lightest guy in that division still still yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah for me I'm always underdog any show I go into right right so it never leaves you never I thrive what that's what pushes me motivates me right I'm the underdog story going to show I'm giving up 40 pounds of all these guys see it's funny because when it comes to two-twig shows I totally forget about the 40 pounds yeah oh yeah I just say o'clareed is it it's so like yeah yeah yeah yeah it's a valid point and it's still 40 pounds really well 40's not impressive when he's one at when he's gave up a hundred yeah yeah yeah right that's nice I was like when he's already beaten two guys were a hundred pounds but what's 40 what what are some of your favorite you know I know you're a bodybuilding historian because you're true fans you know a lot of those old shows what are some of like the guys that the the victories that you look to for inspiration like you know certain guys taking out certain shows in in past history I know that was the most extreme weight difference we've ever seen yeah but what other sort of smaller guy you know I don't know because remember marbord ward yes or marbord ward or ten just sick thing like I watched him I'm just like so that was like I really big motivation for me because he's a jersey guy as well yeah so and well I want his guy come in and knock these guys out who to say I can't do it right I'm so watching him come up and do what he's done was a big motivation for me obviously guy greens pretty good for my I've watched him when many new you grow then yeah I did we kind of want the Olympians over the past couple years you know my biggest you know inspiration and action back then yeah sure you know guy who turned pro even though the light headweeds started as a man away yeah you know obviously wanting winning what six five and six Arnold classics and Olympians I don't know me you know these guys I watch you in and motivated by you know in my like a razor right yeah it's funny how dexter there's something about dexter that inspires every single like either you're lighter or you start or you start it or you're older yeah or like there's always something about him that you know they still look great right now yeah I know like what the hell it's he's like two two tenor something but he's still got all the same bellies on his muscles it's crazy yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah he looks like a million bucks what about you what do you think it as far as like your timeline like how will be an outshot 41 41 so you look like 34 I feel like I'm 25 yeah honestly nothing there's no aches and pains you don't intrigue free of health means the horse as far as time I don't think about I mean my my honestly I might think about my time right yeah yeah honestly if anybody else can go can do a dexter dexter went to 50 right that's my goal yeah I went to what a 50 and beyond if anyone if I'm thinking right now if anybody else that could do it it would be you you know what I mean yeah um what what man so from now till the time you're 50 yeah how many years you've been pro now wow since almost 14 years so another nine years of doing damage and ruining people's days yeah and I want to take in checks from people I mean I have people crying right there people crying different way I've done I've done 50 five shows my career total I would like to maybe get to 100 oh my god how many guys have 100 shows you got me los me los sections got what very close those sections you got 100 wins yeah yeah not not too many guys have 100 shows them in a belt geez I'm trying to think who else might like me los is like one of a kind these are a couple local guys and there's all another done 100 local show right yeah yeah look the same over time oh my god you should see his Instagram 100 times thank you does he just be enruched I woke up this way yeah yeah cuz that I think Milo says like 110 or something Milo does right he was crazy yeah yeah but I love to compete I really do love to compete yeah you were actually even though with the living title like why I used to competing like why not I've been shaped I love to travel I love to compete I'm gonna do it I was thinking you know back in the day when they had that grand pre right after the old yes so they do like 10 shows in a month or 12 shows in a month or something and meet it back and Milo's used to hit that every year and you would kill at that because the problem with that is just holding condition and staying in shape and all that stuff and I know that you would kill it that I'm gonna I mean I used to watch his guys gonna play and they will land on Wednesday compete Friday on a plane 29 in there competing on Saturday it's like that would have been awesome to have that right now I would be all over that yeah I feel like the guys were closer that way too though because yeah cuz they were hanging together they were on tour to get them yeah they're taking this they're all taking the same bus to the airport they're all boarding the same flight they're all taking the same bus low-tell they're all checking in the same hotel that's how it all used to work right that's how it was really cool time and it's how to create these epic stories and memories together like you hit that's these guys I was like you remember that time when that plane when we did X-Y he's like yeah I want to do that well that the most famous grand pre story that I can think of is the Ronnie Coleman Kevin LeVron story yeah that's the most you know that that's probably be like that's that's the best European Grand Prix story is that one and and I know just shows how the guys had all that opportunity to try stuff you know like if you had just done seven shows in two weeks you'd be totally up for just winging it and trying something yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah you get 10th one day and go back to what you did for the other show you know exactly so yeah no it was a fun time but yeah I thought of you a few times when we were talking about those those grand pre you know what was the most shows you didn't the year I think five yeah five or six shows yeah yeah no problem for you no no honestly I love honestly for me I'd rather stay in shape longer because I know I'll get better right I'm just able to move and feel better training feels better just walking around feels better so yeah no tells about the gym wow yeah so I will get to Texas you know obviously my home gym signature fitness surgery was amazing we decided to move to Texas but unfortunately the gym scene wasn't that great and obviously me as team it could still be a competitor it was like hey I'm missing something and it was a gym scene right so instead of running around I was literally driving from one gym to the next is training on the legs here back here arms it was just too much but since it's here in in Dallas area right yeah Dallas it's a big you know it's not close at all yeah it's far away yeah so I was like you know what I'm gonna do something crazy something I've always wanted to do and why not do it now I'm gonna build my own gym so I literally built it from the ground up you know the truck to the building how I wanted it as far as like what often it's holding room full everything and I literally took us almost six months to build it it's up and running right now and obviously we need a few more pieces it's always gonna be you know having a gym it's never done yeah always bringing in stuff taking stuff out always wanted to make it better some breaks yeah yeah exactly but now we're fully running right now as if you're fully private gym you know I only have to keep in my wife that's it right you know eventually I want to do some one-on-one training I want to one-posing we've opposed opposing room in air as well and eventually I get to the point where I'll open it up so maybe 20-30 people you gotta be it nice yeah that's what you dream gym yeah it's a little income just to help me for the rent yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah literally hand picked equipment like I was literally getting stuff brought in from all over the country to hand track to the Flex Fitness side back all oh equipment we're on marketplace every five minutes you gotta have been put in tension always low-to-date meditation once you start buying stuff a market oh my god I've bad I have a million messages scrolling through are you is it on your property Where's it out for you? Five minutes away from my house. Nice. Nice. So it's an it's an I can offer you an area. So you wouldn't be able to find it. There's some signages. There's nothing fancy. It's an middle of nowhere. So it's basically, um, door and gym. Pretty much. Yeah. For example, where had to be I had to be walked to find it. The first one. Yeah. If you don't know, you would get lost. Well, I definitely want to come and see your gym. Absolutely. And I like the idea that I wiki get some footage just driving nowhere. It's literally just planned. You're really set it up. No, it's just a white building. You're like, that must be it. A couple of cows. What are you around? Some horses. You don't find it. I want to ask you about the shoes. Oh yeah. So I really love that pair you got on. Thank you. You got to get a shot of the shoe here. Yes. Yeah. I didn't realize. I, you know, I thought you designed a shoe that you liked. You're going to see a shoe for you. Yeah. And you designed the GK. Your column of GK's, right? GK ones. GK ones. So I'm looking at the GK's. I'm like, that's a sharp look at shoe. And then you started telling me what it actually was. Yes. And now I get it. So when my partner and I, Dell is starting to make an shoes, he's like, what are your favorite shoes or favorite, you know, Caraclaw athletes? Obviously Michael Jordan's going number one. So all my favorite, all my fingers are inspired by Jordan, so easy and the bronze. So if you look at the shoe, they've got to hint them everything. We've got the Jordan three mesh. The Jordan 11, you know, side here. We've got the Jordan three, you know, emblem here. So everything has a little bit of everything in here. That's what you see. I didn't realize it. That's what I like. I like how it looked. But then when he started point now, it's nothing. It's little details. Yeah. Yeah. That's a thing, man. And a really cool thing. And no one knows you have it because they don't have them. Every GK one bottom goes a dark. No, no way. No shoe will a dark. Yeah. That's. You understand that would be different. And bring some news in the market. And obviously think it is things you go over 20 years. Think your sneaker head, birds and a bodybuilder. You know, sneaker head first to bodybuilder seconds. He's the best in the world at bodybuilder. He's the best in the world sneakers. Yeah. He made it something new. Right. Fresh. And I decided to take the leap. My partner in here. We have it now. That is a great place to break. Great there. We got it. Got it. At this point. Yeah. I'm getting the word up. And there's Heather now. Okay. Let us know. She's got her eyes on us. We're getting it. We're going to shut it down for Arnie. And we're going to be back right after we take our picture. I'll get some video. I'll try to work there.

Manager, where is a manager? It's about oh yeah this thing you run is for you and your people like that So the release yes Support fire arms and Canada freedom keep it tactical So I I'm gonna go pick my gun up today. Oh nice Yeah, I actually got my letter over a week ago saying I could go pick it up But I've just been busy and I was out of town. I went to the island to help my dad move today or this weekend I mean and So I the guy called me and said hey, you know a couple days later the guy called me is like hey, you know You can come get your firearm and I was like yeah, it's been really busy I go how many days can you guys hold it for? I think it was oh actually legally we're supposed to hold it for 365 days I was like oh, I got plenty of time. I'll come get this soon Yeah, I think it makes it happen You know I thought I was gonna have to run down there and get it you know what I mean because it's just been busy But so it's a Do you know how it works there like first of all does this gun shop also have a range? Will you be able to open up and start cracking off some sending rounds is the kid say no Is sending rounds no this gun shop doesn't have a range But I'll be able to get everything I need there including the lock the lock box and all that stuff. I have a lock box Yeah, and then and then there's actually a range Literally next door to the gym. Oh nice no kidding like I didn't know one building up Okay, just one building up. There's a shooting range to see people there all the time like it's like you know People go there for fun and you can like you know rent you know what I mean? It's like that type of place you go there and just like Joe blow can just go there and shoot some rounds or you can take your gun there and shoot some rounds. You know what I mean? So I'll probably use that place because I mean it's right next door to the gym So absolutely the neighborhood and that sort of thing so in indoors It sounds like indoors would be good that way you know for a native winter so you can still shoot on time of the year Yeah, yeah, you know I'm gonna go I'm gonna go and you know get my lock box and I'm gonna load up on the things I need like I don't have to buy your own gift to buy your own like headset Yes, yeah, actually You have to show or something. Yeah, you can get like all that Yeah, you can get some they have good ones now that are that that are electronic So they we call it ear pro so you need your eye pro and your ear pro But your ear pro you can actually like crank up the the sound and you can have like Super sonic hearing on top of having the shots muffled so it's kind of cool Right, right. Yes, I want to be a sideboard. You do it's one step closer You know and then of course I'm I'm assuming I'm gonna have to get like a really cool bag Like a real shooters bag like I can put my lock box in the bag and my eye pro and my ear pro and I'm sure there's like a Yeah, good bag. I've got this one. It makes it like that More than you need this is my my bag 511 tactical bag here and there you go tactical bag. That's what I need Yeah, check this out here. This is the story show and tell boom Oh Got on my right there, you know Got one there's a bunch more to it You'll be show us one thing don't fuck me on this one. Let's go Well you can also take this central piece out Then this central piece all your Put this right up on your bench. No, so this central piece is where you keep all your ammo and stuff So that's kind of cool and you can put a bunch of guns in there, you know, it's nice. It's nice bunch of guns Yeah, just bunch of guns just dump them all in there. I don't use dump them all I don't use a lock box in fact. They generally just do something to that yeah, yeah, yeah, you know You have to lock box everywhere in Canada like when you you can't just carry near boggling oh No restrictors hand hand guns are like almost Completely illegal in every possible setting and sense That's okay, take it the shortest possible distance from your home to your range or your gun club And that is the only two places on the planet you're allowed to have it You can't fucking take it anywhere else for any other reason so you can't have it at work No, okay I don't know Yeah, what if you lived at the gym yeah, it's good quest. Well, I guess if you could Was your home but it caught up and just put a caught up in the corner Is it a shower? Yeah, yeah, most of the time yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I got you I don't know figure it out So so yeah, to be a fun new hobby for me It'll be cool. I'm loading up on hobbies. I'm really hobby. You really are how's the guitar thing going you are? Going good I've been playing the bass quite a bit because it's really fun Yeah, I forgot like I never really played bass I kind of just like fooled around on a bass a few times because my buddy had when I borrowed it for like a couple weeks One time I just played a little bit, but I never really played much bass but It's like it's pretty fun You know, there's a lot of like it's physical instrument when you play guitar You don't necessarily feel every strike because the strings are pretty thin and light So like you know you hear like oh, I nailed that note perfectly, but you don't always feel it like in the pick But with the bass it's like every pick is like snap snap snap You're kind of like almost a drummer so you're playing that you're playing the bass with a pick not with the fingers Yeah, I mean you can do either some people are pickers, you know some people You know I had someone asked me that already that's so funny Someone said oh, I know she's a pick and I said yeah, lots of bass players do like if you look at old Metallica Cliff Burton the original bassist who was like the goat of bass playing right the original the original goat Yeah, he was he played with his fingers So like the first form of Metallica albums are all Cliff you can kind of like forever first. Yeah, you can get like a grab to the strings You know what I mean? But yeah, it's a lot of like Funk players yeah play with their fingers, you know, and then there's like the slappers at user thumb like the jazz and funk guys User thumb and yeah, there's all the basses are really cool instrument does a million different ways to play it But you know if you okay Cliff Burton, you know the first first few Metallica albums up to master puppets It was he was a finger guy and then and then when they brought in Jason new stead he played with a pick so but you know both Sound great, you know, it's just their styles But I've been learning Nirvana songs and and Chris Nova-Solic played with a pick he was a picker So I've been like okay use that a pick to get you know kind of the same feel pretty fun Yeah ripping it up man, you know instead of like Surfing YouTube for 20 minutes aimlessly After I eat breakfast to just like you know get a little space before I start my day and instead of doing that I just been Picking up the bass and hammering out a few songs and yeah, I think I'm mentally health here less scrolling Less surfing Less Instagramming I think they're swipe more pick interesting Yes, there's something to it I do think when you train yourself to do new skills It it creates new neural pathways in your brain and That's I'm what I understand that's what keeps us young, you know That's what keeps us remembering things and stuff yeah and it's funny because I actually heard someone talking about that They were saying they were using examples of things that are really good to do and You know they were saying how learning another language. Yeah is really healthy for your brain That doesn't for some reason learning another language just didn't appeal to me. I was seemed kind of worrying Like I don't know why I don't really care enough to learn another language. I don't think But then I heard someone else say that music counts As a lesson I'm going to learn which oh really like the same they're like a lot of the same like a lot There's a lot of the same stuff going on in your brain Because you know there's some other things happening too because it's also different but there's still it covers like a lot of the same basis That it's really really great for you and it's equally as good for you and so I was like oh fuck Plus there's a physical coordination thing to it as well Yeah, which I think is kind of interesting one if there's any carry over You know but Yeah, it's just been a lot of fun. I mean I've always played guitar like hacky guitar You know I've always owned a guitar and picked one up and you know fucked around on it here and there But yeah, I was gonna talk about something I was gonna do it now because it was the main thing on my list but I noticed that Taking up these hobbies now I am Approaching them far different like completely different than when I picked up these hobbies as a kid Because when I started playing guitar in high school I just saw okay well, what do I like and I just be like I like HCDC so I just like look through an HCDC tab book and just like Fuck around with the whole book like I learned the riff to this and what's the riff to that and I'll try this and try that and you're next thing You know I can kind of play Most of the riff soft this album, but yeah none of the solos and you know blah blah blah But Now I'm approaching it like a bodybuilder. I'm like okay today. I'm working on this song. I'm gonna play this song 10 times Like everything is like organized and I that's how I think I go kid I've I'm gonna eat breakfast and then I'm gonna play that song 10 times in a row And I'm just gonna try to get Better at it. I'm just gonna keep playing song over and over and I'll just play it 10 times a row really get you know Get some practice in on that song and then I'm gonna work on clients for to our straight So it's like way different because I'm targeted. I'm like okay today I'm working on this and I'm gonna learn this And I'm gonna do these things 10 times each and I got about 15 minutes so I'm gonna hammer through it And uh and then I gotta go you know, so I'm just way more efficient Just like when I'm on my bike. I'm like oh today I'm just gonna do stuff that I can already do because I'm just want to have fun And I only have 45 minutes so I'm just gonna practice my tricks But then I might go Saturday. I have two hours So Saturday I'm gonna go out and I'll practice my tricks and then for an hour I'll work on shit. I can't do Yeah, which means like frustrating and kind of boring and like you know falling down sometimes and you know I'm not really doing anything that looks cool and you know what I mean? You're just working on skills and it's like But I'm gonna make myself do that and I have an hour to do that Saturday and it just makes me way more structured And I think way more productive like and it's way more enjoyable because I'm not like Lost like you know when you're kidding you're just like doing something as a hobby you don't really have any like you know Yeah, yeah, like you're just like earning the same way most people approach the gym Yeah, that's exactly it like I used to buy a guitar magazine and I just go home and look at the riffs They had that month in the magazine and I just fool around with them But I wouldn't really get good at any of them and I might play them each like three times and just but I go that was interesting But there was no direction But same now like a kid gets the muscle magazine and he like tries this arm workout for a couple times You know, is this chess work? No, and maybe fucks around with this split and two weeks later He does this split. He doesn't stick to anything Yeah, but now I have like a goal like I said a goal. I'm gonna learn there's two albums two Nirvana albums I want to learn all the guitar and bass to cool right entire albums Bleach and never mind guitar bass and higher thing already know a heap of the guitar because I that's what I initially started playing But in the face of some more Yeah, very similar so I'm just gonna learn both complete start to finish That's my goal so I have exact things I'm working on and like you know Shipping away working yourself through is just it's way more and plus then you can like see the end You're like oh, and I have a goal. Yeah, like I'm excited because I believe I'm gonna complete these goals I'm gonna learn both these albums. I used to play the whole music Well, I don't know how how long till I know them or how long till they sound right That was actually there's what's funny Two and extra Sam Grimes is so you know something. I'm curious what the answer is but the reason I asked is because I get that question all the time And body really drives me crazy because the answer is you don't care Yeah, I'm just not your judge is doing it and that's yeah, I want to do the time because I get that I'll tell him well, how long is gonna take me to do this and I? Will if I say five years, you're gonna not do it. Yeah, so I guess the answer is the same it's like it's like um You know how how are they ever really done? Right, yeah, right like am I ever really playing them perfect? Perfect exactly like the album right like perfect if I as that ever really happened, you know Can you ever really sound like him? Can you ever really get the right tone? Can you ever really get the right equipment to get the right tone? You know, you know what I mean like if your goal is to make it sound perfect and it's never gonna end so that's kind of I guess the answer is You know, do you ever really play anything right? You know, right So yeah, it's been a lot of fun and it's also like just really interesting to see like the how how Naturally my brain organizes these tasks into Divisions like leg day chest day back day yeah, right? That's how my brain works now, so it's really fun to take up a new hobby because it feels like there's less Wondering and spinning your wheels and all that stuff and I'm sure the same thing all happened once I start going to the range Yeah, I'll like systemize it in my head once I sort of realize what it's all like I'm gonna go shoot a box of this ammo today. I have half an hour Boba glove whatever. I don't know how it works, but I'll figure it out. Yeah Little advice from my friends Yeah, you know you know somebody who knows a thing or two There's so many things called it's not wearing a green shirt. I do all that Especially carrying on right now at this moment. I do all that same stuff where I'm I'm like trying to you know figure out one thing and then you know I went today and I only had a half hour so I think I'm just gonna I haven't been to the range for about a week I'm just gonna work on my draw from concealment work on that one thing repeat there. You know I love this you know brain is just gonna feast on this you will and and there's so much it's cool because there's like a lot of physics to it To where you start realizing like if you're shooting Over here and down every time then you can start to figure out why that is and then you can correct it in your grip or how you're pulling the trigger So there's a lot of and it's information that we probably would have never had 30 years ago If we were trying to figure this stuff out, but now you go to YouTube or you go online You can you can figure it all out quickly and be like, oh, this is what I must be doing I'll try this and then you get a different result and you know stuff by step to get close It's just very expensive to to figure out because ammo and I think ammo up there is even more money I think it's not that cheap. Yeah, is there Are there there are there ever times when you like at your level That you're having they have a hard time figuring out what you're doing wrong if say last week You came in and you were just on fire, you know, and then this week you come in and for whatever reason It's not quite the same can you typically pretty quickly figure out why or or Is it hit or mess you know what I think in general like can figure it out and for the record I'm not like I've been shooting real consistently for over a year now, but like the guys just like in bodybuilding Like I'm not that good there are guys that blow me away. Yeah, you know what I'm saying So like I'm better than your average guy that's just gonna like step in there and you know just fire shit off, but You know, but yeah, I was I guess I would say that I can figure out what I'm what I need to improve on you know And then I think is too as I started using a timer range timers really nice You won't be able to draw from concealment Ron, but you don't need to because you're not concealing anyway But that's the important thing for me is to know and there's a whole system on how you do it What you do with your hands how everything comes together at four steps that you use and then using the range timer You can measure how good you are how fast you are and then you can try to beat that, you know So it's kind of like the log book and then I keep record of my range times, you know, so yeah very similar Lot of similarities to bodybuilding and learning anything, you know It was cool the instructor that I had to get my gun license He showed us a video because he's he's got like some competition pistols, you know, yeah and He showed us a speed video of him at like some like high level contest and I think you got like second or something because he showed us like the final group or whatever Yeah, I'm like they were so fucking fast man like it was just like you know what I mean just a blur of what they were doing like Yeah, it was they were we're pretty impressive so yeah, I think he showed it to us on day one just so he knew that he wasn't some like Yeah, at at min guy. They got stuck with this class Yeah, he's like I'm a passionate shooter like this is what I do this is my thing like if you're gonna get top by anybody like I fucking know what I'm talking about so it's pretty cool. I have a I've a friend that Used to train some of the swap guys and I won't say the city because I can't finish the story then Good, he told me he was like if you're if you're ever in need of SWAT Call me because they can't help you Right It was like God it he was like it's it's it be it of course there's levels so I'm sure if someone from SWAT heard that did be offended But the point is is just like you said Scott you're talking The amount of time it takes to be that Profitient yeah, you know, you know, I find I'm obsessed What I have to be careful when you guys get these topics because I could spend two hours asking questions I love the hearing about shit. I don't know nothing about Because you know, I mean, it's like you compared to everything to swinging or golf club like why is it that yesterday? I was dead nuts on and yeah, I'm off or you know what I mean? That's what I was asking that because it really ties in whereas for the most part I feel like the gym that it other than your body having aches or pains like the bar typically goes right in it to go every time Yeah, you're gonna change shirts again change last week But no, I'm I'm definitely I'm I'm fascinated to to watch as as as as Ron's Style comes together and you're guys as conversations For his rep says he says yeah, it's it's interesting There's something I had heard not too long ago, you know that the actual The mechanics of pulling the trigger are very simple but you have an explosion that is literally going off right by your face and Yeah, you want to recoil from that so what what this guy that I was listing to said was That the the mechanics of shooting a gun and knowing how to hold it knowing how to pull the trigger That's like 5% of it or 10% of it and the other 90 95% is controlling the animal in your head That wants to recoil because the first time I saw this is interesting this woman was only ever shooting an error pistol or something and so They put a live gun in her hand and she dryfires no round she dryfires no around No recoil at all like she does because a lot of times you'll see somebody dryfire and they flinch their hands will flinch in anticipation Nothing she pulls the first round she ever shot in her life out of a An actual fire on perfect bullseye nailed it first round ever but after that She didn't do it anymore. Yeah, because then that animal takes over and that's the whole game is learning how to overcome the animal in us It really is yeah I know they say that the snipers Like I've known some snipers and they say that you like Breathe out completely And then you wait for the space between heartbeats to pull the trigger hmm okay You know that so that's pretty cool like they let the you know let their breath completely go out of their body So they're just completely flat and then but they wait for the heart to beat pump and then they go Squeeze the trigger and it's kind of cool You know the still list you'll ever be I guess yeah. Yeah. I was more still not I couldn't pull the trigger. I was asleep Totally still Yeah, we didn't tell everyone to like share subscribe comment and Or ring the bell or ring the bell I've been re-eressively lately. I don't know why yeah, it's really good fucking bell I want to make sure you get contact you know You're upset very upset I was set that didn't ring it before they got to this point. That's why I Know sometimes we have a little weight It's like the odd episode you watch where the credits don't come to like 10 minutes in you're like oh, that was a long intro Yeah, I feel like it's like Contest prep when you've been working with a pseudo all year though Because we just start talking and Then we re-a fuck the prep here. This episode started Probably stay what episode number it is which we did this time. Yeah, yeah, yeah Do the routine We'll finish strong with it with a good one at the end of this Scott. I got you all right. That's all deal. That's okay So dusty I I I want to say I I saw your post We've really taken to this living in a house with three other women and it looks like you're May all know each others there this time Which yeah They yeah, they they they they you seem very very happy and it's good to see man And it's you know, it looks like you're having a good time and Looks like you're it is great. You found a great bunch to rescue you as a stray I think that's absolutely what happened You know and I I don't know if I told you but Both of the girls have boyfriends that I like Okay, oh no way and they're like guys guys they're not pluses I'm like all right I got was so happy to like like one of the first things I ever heard The oldest boyfriends say was coming out of a restaurant and he's he had word with a guy and I actually overhered him say I'm not about to be disrespectful and I turned it I'm not that's not where ever it needs to go I don't give a shit I was just so happy I'm like I like a little tear He might bunch this guy. That's great. So yeah, yeah, they want they went to They actually went to golden gloves over the weekend and Watch he's not old enough to do it yet so he's only 16. I guess here that's the 18 to compete in that particular one but I'm getting updates There was a knockout. I'm getting videos. I'm like Scorolikes boxing Yes, so yeah solid stuff man solid stuff a bit A woman that likes a little bit of controlled violence is a good thing she understands how the world works Nothing wrong with that. I think it's key. You know what I mean? It's something about there's something about combat sports, you know, so people just fucking hate them But I don't know man. I think it's a healthy outlet for those guys Those guys would be doing it no matter what how let's put it that way. Yeah, yeah I think you'd become true if you if you get it early enough you kind of become numb to it, you know Like where it's it's not like a big thing I remember early on in a relationship I was and I got a call in the night from For my mother and she was like you gotta go get your dad and I'm like where is he? She's like you gotta rest and I'm like getting a fight. She's like yeah So I tell her I'm just like getting my stuff and she goes what do you mean you got it? I don't know I didn't ask Why didn't you ask what happened to my it happens? I don't really care I just gotta go pick him up You realize like in my mom like what you call she say hey, okay? What's up? She's not sorry So late like there's like an intro because right it's not a huge deal when you've been around it Your whole life so yeah, it's good that I'm you know she's learning these things Wow, it's just good. I just think I guess this is my little thing You don't have to like violence. That's not the point but you can't be so Unused to it that it paralyzes you when it happens around you Right like when violence happens around you you have to be able to react and Most likely leave as fast as possible Yeah, right? You know in the most situations of violence occurs around you you want to get away get safe get somewhere else as quickly as possible And so many people just freeze up because they don't know what's going on like they can't believe they're seeing violence Yeah, you know what I mean and they freeze up and a lot of times they get you know Elbowed in the face because two people are scrapping right in front of them and they just go like oh You know what I mean like It's it's just and that's just one example like there's a you know a million other scenarios where you have to be able to like You know not freeze and be paralyzed and be shocked that violence is so shocked that violence is occurring You've seen videos where there's like something crazy happening and there's like some Fucking you know middle aged woman or man who's completely out of shape So how to shape they can't even move properly and instead of trying to get out of the way they're they're like looking around going Manager Where is a manager like You are in the line of fire In the game here and then they get like knocked over like violent knocked over right and a phlegis lab is Yeah, because in their mind an authority figure should just be able to end this yeah There's there was a video How to compare Just so you have to go to the level I got offended if I can send it to you, but it's like a sporting event and a couple guys are not even in a fight But there's a disagreement and one guy steps back and he ends up kind of falling on to the lap of a kid that's sitting there But it's not like a small kid. It's just a kid in the dad Help Help it grabs the kid he's screaming The cop is like well think of that guy's stayed calm Yeah It was literally it didn't even escalate But that was his immediate response was like oh my god I'm like Someone basically sat in your kids lap Yeah, and yelling for help not actually doing much and not pulling away not just it was it was a mad scramble I'm like what would you do if something actually like if gunfire took place Yeah, like to stand there Paul It happens it happens. I want to speak to the manager. It's needs day. Yeah, it was a manager. There's coming with a gun You're not allowed to have that here, but I think I think it's a lot of fun Free zone. It's a lot of society now because I remember There was a gym I used to go to the there was kind of like a busy parking lot out front A lot of through traffic to other stores and these kids would literally just be like on their phone Just looking down walking through the street and I'm thinking to myself like if somebody doesn't stop at that stop sign If somebody doesn't stop because that kids like they would be shocked if they were to get hit because it's not supposed to happen Somebody wasn't supposed to hit me They would be shocked you know, and I mean yeah, and I think it's supposed to get hit yeah, yeah, but guess what once you do you did You know there's a weird comfort in every I was I was in Dallas over the weekend, but we were downtown And you definitely realize there's some sketchy fucking people everywhere And I took off in the morning and I wasn't thinking about it and I have far too much blatantly expensive things on me And so I'm just being extremely aware and walking around and I realized that how many people aren't Oh, yeah, I'm like yeah, like I'm always Aware, but I'm also extremely like okay Probably shouldn't have brought this bag with me to wander down the streets where I don't really know where I'm going And Dallas while I'm looking at my phone for directions. You know what I mean? So I'm like looking What you know, look at that and it hits me how many people in their own hometowns are far too comfortable because they're like oh well You know, I live in Greenville. I mean nothing's gonna happen here. I'm like tell it does situational awareness Yeah, I have that's just permanently in me because I worked you know in the bar for So long, you know even as a bartender you're still looking out of the crowds for problems all the time, you know And you know you hear people kind of arguing are those two guys arguing and then you're aware of it And you realize no one else notices that they're arguing Yeah, and the one guy starts waving his hands And then you start to see the mouse go fuck you. No fuck you and you realize there's these two girls stand on beside them They're just giggling like completely clueless with like martinis in their hands and you're like all those girls are going Fucking flying You know what I mean just the situational awareness is something that I was like probably had too much of it like ruined a little bit of fun over the years Yeah, you know I used to find when I'd bounce so it was nice because sometimes I would see that starting and you could walk over and actually diffuse it before You happen Like walk over and they're in your cake broke you gotta understand even if you whip this guy's ass. There's ten of us You're fucked and you're nice fucked and you know And then the guy kind of starts to calm down for just a second. You kind of look each other like Good and I mean who knows a large set of time because I used to always my big concern was bouncing I want to get hurt and I don't want anything to happen Yeah, so I get to help I'll be like please let me make sure that these two don't actually get in the fight because that sucks You know, you don't want to somehow roll my ankle something stupid because these two assholes are fighting or Nothing is being drunk My line used to be I love getting paid to do nothing guys So let's just keep it that way Let's just not you know I love to paid I love to get paid to just stand here all night and look at girls. So let's just don't ruin my evening No And they usually laugh a bit right like you can get a laugh at some guys. Oh, yeah, if I can The guys just annoying me So we're gonna do some YouTube questions Scott. Yeah, let's do them. We got a barn By the way guys if you if you want to take part in the next episode then comment below as always plus comments likes all that stuff It helps to boost our shows up and you know we could always use it. I think that I'm starting to get to vibe that YouTube might not like channels that talk a lot about steroids and That's how we're talking about cocaine and hookers lately. Yeah, yes, so rotated. I think that the channel may not always get seen because I've had people tell me like They're like hey, I don't get notifications the new show came out so make sure you've got that bell You know clicked all of that stuff. Yeah, definitely definitely We're gonna talk about steroids that much no no just the but you know what it's guilt by association because then I'm on here Runnin my mouth about anodrol with Dave Crosslin and they're like, you know All these guys look the same, you know these giant dudes. They all look the same Jimmy Donald has one of yours. He says question for the next episode Lee Haney said stimulate don't annihilate What did he mean and was he right? Well Yeah, he's right Lee Haney did say that all the time. I mean Lee Haney trained really hard. He was a volume guy But I think he was just referring to like You know, I know that you know Tom Plats used to just like murder himself, you know like you'd do a set with like 10 four straps and then 20 partials. Yeah, you know what I mean and I think Lee was just saying like you can't train like that all at the time like you like your body's gonna You know that's how you break your body eventually and your body gets like so pounded it You're not gonna grow and he's kind of right like you can't train like that every single workout You know what I mean like even Tom Plats didn't train like that every single workout You know but You know he trained hard. I mean Lee Haney like I've seen videos and he mentioned four plates for reps so like I don't know Maybe it's just the way he in the context of his mind he was thinking like You know don't do 10 four straps on every set and all that sort of stuff I don't know how much he went to failure. I he might have only done like the last set to failure, you know Which isn't really that much different than when everyone else does anyways so it's a lot of it's semantics Maybe he was just a brain ninja It was getting the competition to train like buses while he was training like a freak There you go. Don't train to ask guys Just guys take it. I've been taking it easy. Look at me I'm beating you guys and I'm just fucking around so why don't you fuck around yeah and find out You know what does he mean by stimuli what's his definition of stimulus? Maybe it's pretty hard. Right. That's actually the reality because Dante and John Meadows used to go back and forth like that their training was very very different and obviously had worked with both of them And the biggest difference between I'm not saying all of it but their base was that John Meadows counted is warm upsets Yeah, yeah, but the actual working sets was like two Yeah, you know, so I do think you're right all kidding side-runs I think that's what it means to an individual because I just told that to a guy with a weekend He's like well how many working sets do you do when you do dads? I go two because you do two sets Yes, that's it. I'm like let's take seven to get there Yeah, you know what I mean so it's like I touched the bar five six times before I do those two sets So if you want to count the one 35 for 10 the 225 for eight Well, then I guess I did seven sets For debts today you know I mean yeah, it worries me a little when When it worries me to think how this statement could be interpreted Because I do feel like for some people it could be like well that means I shouldn't train that hard, you know Yeah, if you can do 10 stop at seven yeah, yeah, no, right oh, maybe he knew was maybe he He kind of tried to keep like you know how there's a lot of research about you know keeping one rep and reserve because then you can do more total sets with that weight Right, you know, and that's sort of maybe he was like kind of a go to the date maybe he's kissing failure and not quite hit failure I'm a lot of his sets. I don't know Yeah, there's lots of ways to train hard though like maybe he's doing a lot more sets. I remember he was I remember reading he was like more of a volume Guy so Yeah, it's all You know, how you look at it dude because I know people say well J does in train heavy He does he you know, he's a high volume guy. I'm like I've seen Jay inclined for 55 Yeah, what are you talking about? Road four five all the time That road four plates all the time Yeah, yeah, yeah, he did a lot of volume and a lot of weight and and I guess another thing I would say too is like well Maybe that works really well for some people. I don't know if he that high volume with high weight worked for Everybody that tried it, you know in the early 2000s it did work really good for some people, but You know what if your ability to recover from that isn't as good as Jay's you know Yeah, I think that's where like the genetic component comes in, you know the old four exercises four sets a eight to ten Yeah, you know adding weight on every set, you know I think you got to know yourself too though, right because I Have a short attention spin. I can't do 24 sets in train. I'm bored. I want to leave well There's that that's an element too. Yeah, I don't want to do this this exercise for 15 minutes Yeah, like all right just you know because you know how it is like say you're doing you know Back like pull down movements for back the first work your first movement you got warm-ups this and that your second movement There's not really a warm-up Right go all right go imagine having to do I don't want to do that four times it just it doesn't work for me mentally Yeah, start looking around. I see some shiny. It's no good. No, hey You know that's how it works you get there's that whole That whole thing about what's gonna keep the guy Going hard, you know he's got to enjoy his he's got to enjoy the process and there's a there's different ways to get there You know Obviously your genetics might dictate which ways the best way to get there and then you got to stumble on it All that stuff, but yeah, yeah, you know So what was your hand he was it hand he's hand he's awesome though. I remember I still remember how angry I was I was like really upset I can't remember what year it was but they gave me hand you like a lifetime achievement award and he didn't get a standing ovation And I was like super upset when they called him out and the crowd didn't stand up. I was like okay It was like a bunch of us for standing and I was like what the fuck yeah, you know It was it thinking about what you have to do to piss it off a Canadian That's a lot That's exactly exactly It's a stack of anything. Hey speaking of Jay. I got a comment because question here with Jay mentioned Hey guys another great episode question from my side Jay Cutler had and still has the longest lines during expo's when rich piano was drawing a lot of attention to words the sport Especially from what I've heard during expo's with an enormous amount of people waiting to meet him And do you see anybody nowadays getting close to that We're literally everybody wants to meet that one person Maybe guys from full-outs podcast Nick Walker would be interesting to hear your thoughts all the best Lucas Well from what I saw at the LA fit which was a small expo Robin Dale and Bailey it was crazy. They're still killing it. They were they were only there for like three hours on one day And maybe that concentrated their line because their fans were like they're only there for three hours right But when they were there like their line-up is just stupid it like went Fucking way past a bathroom and around back behind the power lifting it was just to use this crazy and I mean I took a piss like every hour of the whole weekend and every time I went I would look and there was this dude wearing a black Sabbath t-shirt And he was still in line like he moved like I remember thinking wasn't like Sabbath t-shirt because I was gonna see I was like when I go back to the bathroom I'm gonna see if that guy moved in what back we can hour later and he was like moved quite a bit But he wasn't at the front yet. I was like oh yeah, yeah, and I went again and he wasn't still wasn't at the front He was like almost there and I was like holy shit and then and then J was there for half of Sunday and just like he said his line was J was the craziest line for sure of the whole expo But I mean that was a pretty small expo, but Tanned to the question. I don't see anyone with a line like J Right now at like you know the expo's well, I have to see how the rest of the year goes It would be interesting to go to England See their expo's like at the Arnold in September Yeah, but J still the king of the lineup. I don't know do you agree dusty as far as we can tell? Well, hey, yes, for sure. That's the quick answer, but what I was also gonna say is J and Robin Dana are the only ones with staying power Because remember when Kai was was at his peak and was winning and was like right there and could win the Olympia He had a line like that always I stood in that one time Kai can walk through an expo now He still is very popular. Don't get me wrong, but it's not like it used to be It's definitely not like Robin J and Dana like those people have that so I feel like that's what really separates because I imagine that there's a lot of guys coming up and you know in girls that are very popular little have a big weight But I find it really powerful that People who aren't That the technical influencers That can still hang like that because that's what it is now like if you dropped an influential I think Bradley Martin would probably have a bigger draw than Nick Walker at an expo Because yeah, I don't know it's hard to say every like so many people know them across some of things I think one that could hang If I was gonna name somebody that's gonna guess the could hang it would be bumps that he would have a lot like that Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, and I think that he also Will have staying power because he's just He's he gets it like I watch some of the decisions he makes as a businessman and I'm like He's gonna be like Jay he can do this as long as you want so you're gonna tie her keep coming back keep adding this pocket Fans will love him. Yeah, he's he's on that level in my opinion Did he did you switch coaches? No, I I heard something about he hired Hannie to help him with some mental stuff, but okay That's true. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah That's why I ask instead of say it as a statement men on a plane coaching like not just dieting Yeah, one of my clients message in the last day was like dude, did you hear about bum stud? I was like what I think he instilled doing his diet and everything so yeah, okay, insanity to change Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, why change on Miller that's working, you know, yeah, yeah, I would say You know what else to like Did you see what Foo add in the guys did they have like a meet up? Yeah, I don't know where they where where were they? I didn't know where they were Was it in Florida Texas where we talked to work, but they had like a Yeah, they had like a meet up. Sorry. I think was Texas We're doing it. Yeah, they they all had like a meet up and like a fan meeting greeting stuff and it looked like it went really well That's cool and when you do stuff like that it Maybe negates the need to like do it at an expo. You know what I mean? You're getting out and engaging your fans directly and It's your exact target market. Yeah, because everyone's just coming to see you So it's like it's not like you're getting any stress It's just where I'm concentrated fucking one percenters, you know what I mean? Yeah, and so so that's a great idea Like I thought that was a great idea of what Foo add did it hard to get everyone together like that though, but yeah Yeah, he brought all the guys too, which was yeah Yeah, I mean it's a whole team basically that's fun. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's funny. They're I think guys the only one who's not with hostile Okay, so it's like they're all doing the group photo and they're all wearing hostile except guy It's funny Well, he's doing one of those angry that moment as well. Oh, I'm excited. I'm I'm going to the UK in like two weeks guys There's this an event fit expo fit or fit expo. I guess is fidx po. That's how you say it fidx Yeah, po. There we go and Yeah, yeah, a little tricky there, but it's gonna be in Liverpool and Dave crosslin and I are going to do a live podcast there On Sunday morning, so it's gonna be cool man like Dorian's gonna be there training a bunch of guys Josh Malie Sasan's gonna be there. Yes, well, so that's awesome. Yeah, so I'm excited to meet all those guys and meet some of our listeners too So I don't really get like the J Cutler line, you know what I'm saying, but I think you might think you might Never know it's UK Let me fun. I've never been there before you guys have both been there before right? I mean you yeah, like multiple times Liverpool I haven't been there everywhere. Yeah, yeah, I did like a tour there one year So it was a bunch of England and then Wales for some for a couple stops and yeah, it was cool Yeah, but you know you need to make sure you do if you're a true bodybuilder And it says nothing with bodybuilding You gotta go eat some like real Indian food Indian food Do yeah, England's for it. Oh, oh Game changer and I'm not like I would never eat that here because as far as I know there's no Wherever it hurts, but it's even close. I got balls the after trip once was like, oh, I'm gonna look up a place in Scottsdale Not as good, huh? Not the same okay. It was sad. Yeah, trust me on this one They got like a bread thing they bring up like hangs like my fucking microphone here Terrible that you want hanging bread for sure. I need the hanging bread the bread that hangs Dusty said to get the bread that hangs you bring the bread that hangs Remember what else Liverpool gave us Hey my favorite spice girl sporty spice. I don't know you're gonna say the Beatles Well they gave us a Beatles too Put sporty spice Who the Beatles what sport is spice? Yeah All right, I got another one favorite. Here's my favorite What are your guys is feelings on wrist wraps? I doubt I'm pushing enough weight to actually need them But I feel more secure when I have them on plus they look cool That's the important part right there. I was gonna ask for color Does it what's the color what's the right color? Black and red always? They're pulling up the Danny Hester war one of them to the fucking dinner the other night when we were in LA you kidding me Sure, God just one wrong wrong Well, it wasn't it wasn't out of traditional wrist wrap it would look more like a hangar to look like a bandana Tide around no no, he had a wrist wrap also I think it's written down Yeah, I think that's okay Yeah, I mean Danny was just using to hold a fork so yeah, yeah, do you need it? Cool. I I I do agree they look cool So I wore wrist wraps I would always make sure I didn't Put them on like I would put them on loose and I would do like My warm upsets and I would get up to like the 120s without them you know what I mean yeah, and then I would wrap them for like the 150s Yeah, you know And then I would maybe wear them on my second exercise and then I would just They'd just be loose dangling on my wrist for the rest of the workout after the first two big movements Because I always felt like I didn't want to like Make my wrist weak I sort of felt the same as knee wraps guys that wrap their knees all the time They wind up having a hard time training with without knee wraps and I didn't want to be like that But now I don't wear wrist wraps anymore because I don't think I train heavy enough to justify them And I want to you know, I want to make sure I stay you know strong and I don't mask any pain or anything like that So I try to try to go that route now, you know What do you think I have an answer question yeah, yeah once got I'll say Yeah depends on depends on what I'm doing But dumbbell presses I like them for that Yeah, like like you would need a number of ones yeah my favorite thing would be heavy dumbbell presses and like you're saying top top set You know, I'll have a mind but they're not tight and then I tighten them up right before the set and If I take too long then I notice my fingers are starting to go numb and tingling So that gives me motivation to get under that you know get under the dumbbells faster And then yeah, I'll take them off because I just keep them you know home gym I'll just toss them over where I keep them you know, but yeah, I would leave them on loose otherwise because that is an article You can easily lose at the gym You gotta be careful. I didn't learn. You can lose. I never wore them on arm day Not like yeah, I was doing wearing wrist wraps on arm day. I never wore them on arm day I used to they kind of have enough on arm day. I'd crank Wrap down on my knees I should bust you and you do in fucking two plate skull crushers and yeah Wrap your wrist on the wrap all the way up my arm yeah, I wrap my elbow Wrap my shoulder knees the either like I went to knee sleeves But before that I'd wrap the knees Real tight and if they hurt a little bit you know, I guess they're getting like that sharp pain cartilage is tearing Then I just wrap it harder, you know It was the dumbest thing I could have done And now I don't do any of that now for knees. I just I'll use a very thin sleeve It doesn't even have like a there's no resistance to it is just enough to keep my knee a little bit more Right that's that's it. I just I don't want to but you know what I still I'm not lifting heavy right now run and I still will use the the wraps My heavy dumbbell presses whatever the heavy a set I can do I will use it for that but then I back it on you know Yeah, there you go dusty same thing Just for fashion. I'm trying to be cool. Yeah, just for fashion Well, you have your little ritual you have your little yeah, that's part of it. I was waiting every working set Every working set he takes him off. Yeah, and then once they're off He just re-reputs them back on again and then does his next set and then he's like rest-poss Yeah, yeah, yeah, like we're gonna rest-poss. You only got 30 seconds, right? He buys about 40 seconds because he fucks with 42 All the way off and then all the way back on for each one I leave the thumb part on though Scott, you know the part that we're gonna thumb yeah, so it doesn't actually like come off But it's not a little full of In fact yeah, almost and then right back on you think he's going one way reverses it Yeah, that's a little thing there's like a drama to that though, you know you step away great for filming Yeah, you step away from the equipment, right? You redo him Are you doing and then you step back in, you know, yeah, and it's like a show video editing you remember you remember he's gonna list a lot Yeah, so from this which He's got he's about to lift a lot. That's what I would be thinking if I watched that All right, what else to be here? There's a wrist wrap question. Here's one. No, but yeah simple question Turn it into a little for seven minutes. Yeah Paul asks it says Ron and Dusty can you get mutant to start making gear in The roadside Lemonade flavor that's available in the BCAA 9.7 product Because as far as I know BCAA's are not really effective true or false So what is he saying that he does like two things here? Is he saying that roadside Lemonade is his favorite flavor And he wants that in another product. Yes, okay Yes, that's what he's saying and also he doesn't like BCAA's but it's a great flavor If you're gonna watch it and make it in the other way It's like a lemon drop like like actually like a lemon drop It's very delicious. It's like you bought roadside Lemonade off a child Yeah, like that perfect flavor taste like it tastes like it tastes like you're helping a kid start a business My- The things that's what you're seeing it tastes like mom typically makes it so it tastes like the purest form of capitalism You get that start early. You know, I think that's yeah, yeah Kids making money being entrepreneurs is tastes so fantastic. Yeah, it's a great flavor. Yeah, I agree I can't hear though Yeah Kevin's got one for us Kevin 21 What's your opinion on combining high intensity methods into volume training? This is what I talked about last week. I think for example working up to a heavy top set slowly and conservatively with reps to ensure maximum strength and endurance and and then immediately after doing two higher rep drop sets for example. Okay So go ahead heavy and then immediately go into the drop. So so he means you know instead of doing one working set You're doing one working triple drop is what I call yeah, I use the term triple drop because there's three different weights being used Not because there's three drops. Yeah, it's not three drops. It's actually a double drop Which is but I say triple this because there's three different weights being used So he's just saying turn all your work sets into drop sets. Is that what I think he's talking about? Yeah, I mean I imagine So I've actually I've actually done that like I've done a strip set on leg press and then move to hack and done a strip set on hack and then move to extension and done a strip set on extension and I mean it's fucking brutal and your pumps in saying I don't know if you should do it every week Now you'll get like two hammered maybe you'll make some great games. I don't know. I mean it just sounds like you're just like having fun by making up an extra hard way to train Which hey, that's I can back to that. I can back to that I I I I admire the hustle But I got a question for you guys would you consider that to be higher volume? Because you're still just pushing that same set further. Yeah, it is higher volume because volume is mat is weight times reps Your volume so technically when reps so technically you're lifting more volume in that same amount of probably saving amount of time the workout It's only gonna be a few minutes longer and so you just have to like you know It's it's weight what is volume again weight times reps? Then you factor in how many minutes your workout wasn't so if that it won't work longer than the other then You know what I mean changes the divide it by the I asked because I always feel like volume is like more sets I feel yeah me that's like Technically more volume in that set but it's still it's just one more and it's like an intense a fire is what I Would consider that yeah, yeah, but the math formula like the people that are math purists It is weight times reps so you would have to add it all up. Okay, what do you think dusty? I think it'd be a lot I also and this is purely opinion But I find for myself and for Most of my clients When your workouts are getting really hard You're in close with show or something like that Ever had some of your training with they're getting ready to do a set and I'll look at your quick go how many more sets do we have? That's them deciding what they're putting into this set. Yeah, and I do think there's something we said about knowing Like if you're gonna do like he said six to eight reps You get to that eight rep and it's tough, but you might have a 9th one in you If that's your only set you go for that 9th rep every time if you're wired correctly I think a lot of people don't go for that 9th rep because they have two drops coming So I do think it altars the intensity of of the high intensity kind of training But like Ron said I think sometimes it's good to have fun I mean, I love training all the time, but there's many times I go on the gym and I'm like I just want to fuck myself up today And I'll do something like that, you know, I mean today when in the gym and I I made my Decided the thing I'm really put out there, but I want to feel really strong again Before deciding what I want to do as far as Activity and body building and that's up so I decided like all right, you know my shoulders starting to get pretty healthy I want to just get strong again and pressing has been an issue It's been something's been bothering me it's getting better so today without any thought about it All I did was press for shoulders I did four different pressing movements and just now This will be fun and that's what I did like so I think sometimes like is that part of some master plan now The only thing I did do is make sure I was thinking about What numbers I wanted to hit on each thing so I think the idea is good, but like Ron's I wouldn't do that every time It's just it's a lot to beat your body down with so I don't think it's optimal kind of becomes why Rob Taylor's got one for us. He says a quick question for the next show Is masculinity an indicator of leanness? He says been on my cut for at least three weeks and my veins are like snakes And so I mean so yeah, but it's all relative to you and your You know how vascular are you Anyways like some people die it down and they're really vascular other people die it down and they're not really As vascular so there's a genetic set point but Everyone who gets leaner will get more vascular Right so I think the more times you do it right yeah if you're getting more vascular and you're dieting Then you're definitely getting leaner Yeah, because that's exactly what happens So so yeah, it isn't indicator like if I see someone and they're and they're in a sleeveless shirt and their delts and Arms have veins all over them then it is an indicator that they're probably leaner than most average people the rest of their bodies Probably not fat like what you know if you see someone and their calves are shredded You know, I mean there's the odd fat guy out there with lean calves that we've all seen one of them They have a big hot belly and then they've got like freaky calves but that's super rare So for the most part if someone's legs are lean, especially if their thighs are lean Then they're probably lean, you know, yeah, yeah, so yeah It's a good sign keep it up You look at guys like Jay Cutler. He was never very vascular, you know You're not like crazy. I mean if you saw him in the gym training You'd fucking veins all over his delts and arms and but not like you're close and you're like Yeah, yeah, yeah, who's a great example like it's just you know your cram grass forearms, you know Yeah, yeah Thank you for tuning into another podcast here at Think Big Bodybuilding Media if we've provided value to you today Then please consider contributing to our show you could help support the show through Patreon every five dollars Helps to pay for the software in the hardware and everything else that goes into making a podcast You can also contribute by using our code at true nutrition true nutrition has been our title sponsor for several years now I'm super grateful for them and I've believed in true nutrition supplements long before they sponsored our programming You could use our code. Thank for health supplements and performance supplements Feel free to hit me up if you have any questions and if you're in Canada check out supplement source.ca They have free shipping over $99 Huge discounts on overstock short dated in label change products plus they have all your normal supplements too Thank you guys for listening to the commercial I hope you're having a great day and that your bodybuilding is going well Let's get back to the shelf. Oh, I got to make sure I get this one on because I guess he commented a few times and I've missed it Taylor asked he says okay. I've got one Scott the same one from before because yes, not the same one Oh, not the same one. I tried to read these fast and add inflection and then I don't always catch all the words And I miss important words like not you know what I'm saying Anyways, he says um What's the most you guys have spent on all your PEDs Dioretics peptides you name it on a show prep money wise Feel free to go into as much detail as you're comfortable with but I am curious I remember Rich Piana saying he spent like 15 Gs 15 big ones Thanks That's a lot of money look what was he fucking running for 15 grand? I mean well running game on the fans so that day would listen was fucking that I'm at it. I don't hate to play Well, there's farm a G agent that number two so if you look it's like 149 right there 90s yeah 90s farm a GH prices maybe 10 or 10 or 12 of it was that But but to be honest like you'd be super there's just no nothing exciting in my Past them in that regard I was a Always a Bit of farm kid in me I kept my I kept my costs down And I only used farm a GH like a couple times in my whole life yeah, you know I did most of my shows without any Do you feel like I made a difference Furna? I don't know it you sure feel good while you're on it. That's a thing like you know you're on How good are your pumps and how good do you feel versus what does it actually do for your physique at the very end yielded out like on stage how much Better are you I'm using your pro card with it No, I wasn't using a farm a G agent here. I want my pro card. Yeah, there's that funny guys. Yeah That was interesting yeah, I was a little smaller that year. I used a whole bunch of generic GH and I thought it was like fairly good generic GH But I didn't use farm a So That's funny. I didn't spend much my food bills way higher like one time one time years it Go like I wasn't even done competing and I did like a rough calculation Like just estimated and I was like oh, I've spent like quarter of a million dollars on food Yeah, you do last year You know a lot Like in 25 years it's spent like Lots of money on food like I remember the joke was when I'm one of my friends said like Oh, you know, I could look like you in 10 years and I got I said where you will end to spend 200 thousand dollars on food He was like oh fuck that I say That's funny. I think if I was gonna get a quarter of a million egg whites I don't know what I went math but it was something that you imagine doing that From cramion Shicken have you eaten how many ounces of chicken is wrong? Yeah, you started bodybuilding yeah It was some I echo remember the exact numbers, but it was I remember just looking at the numbers and they can it was just what I made that much money never mind spent it. Yeah, yeah I made that much money. I was like I'm like God and like 20 years I spent that on food. Yeah There was this TV show that we just watched last night on vise It was on YouTube and they were following Ravers that were middle aged in aging guys that were like 40s 50s 60s plus that were still raving and they took three of them into the studio They did they go back to raving or they still raving or they still raving different animal and they they calculated how much drugs they had used and then they Didn't take like actual drugs, but they took like white powder and put it on a table to to show them How much drug there was this dude who's like very well-known. I guess in the UK as being this like party guy 50s big belly where's like all sorts of funny outfits he's always the the the the life of the party nine kilos of cocaine in his lifetime to himself nine fucking kilos I mean there were these that by 16 thousand. How does that look how does that look on a table with it was it was like a It was a legit like it's like a scar face mountain. Oh bigger yeah, yeah, it was like a face mountain. Yeah Which is still alive And how ended the interview him yeah they interviewed him and he had some like heart stuff going on and he's probably better of not doing they have like just sheets of sheets of LSD just stacked up this guy's like I took 956 tabs of LSD in his life and Just mountain was bailing of weed was the most fucked up like was any of them really obviously like it is Get straight out there was one guy who didn't make it to the studio. He didn't come to the studio and he had What equated to like a mountain of math and a mountain like literally like a legit bail of weed Real nice stack of mushrooms too over to the side just giant pile of mushrooms. Yeah, that's amazing A bail of weed. Yeah, I think those guys too. Oh God That's like to do that with you guys bringing the studio and we're like pile up as many chicken as you've eaten You know Deep seam yeah, I did do the math on the egg whites once I I remember the number had a lot of zeros Like how many egg whites those estimating Dusty you got your math out for us yet I Started to and then I just I just decided to guess to mate because I just went with the growth and I started just trying to figure out per bottle Yeah, but I think for 16 weeks of prep and running Growth the entire time I've might have been looking at like 36 hundred bucks. Okay for a prep. Yeah, it's I don't know what people are getting robbed. What's this? So that's about how many egg whites I ate during my competitive years Do you know that would cost you today if you lived in the United States? Ten million dollars So I ate about 150,000 egg whites. It's a lot of egg whites You might get a better deal since you fall off of your bike also Yes Yeah, so it's I mean the 15,000's funny because I did I tried to guess really high. Yeah, it's I just I mean Ron really did nail it drugs are not that expensive food really is yeah Like it's I the most expensive thing I ever did Was in 2011 when I was doing 16 ounces of cooked salmon a day And I don't I don't like far I'm saying it's been like fresh Famous salmon salmon or what is it like how much I mean literally it would say And I remember I got really pissed Ron because I went to Miami I went to Miami a week early right and I go to buy a food from public seats. I go to buy the same salmon and the price was higher I'm like this fucking fish was ruining that god damn ocean You mean to tell me it's cheaper to have him take a flight to Scottsdale before he comes to my house Probably But when you're getting in Scottsdale probably comes from Vancouver And when you're getting in Miami probably comes from Well, no, it's because it's a Atlantic salmon I'm telling to me but even my mind Yeah, I remember and I'm not someone who really like you know and I don't mean this and is bad It's gonna sound but like when you're in prep Yeah, you buy what you need to eat I don't really pay attention to what it costs I'm like I realize what I'm like fuck that was expensive. Okay, but the salmon I was like damn This is fucking brutal because you had to cook like 22 ounces to have a cooked 16 ounces We we went to my ants for dinner the other night and my Uncle barbecue Flaze beautiful man 10 ounce Flaze like they were just I walked in and I saw them sitting on a plate ready to go on the barbecue and I was like oh Those are that like most of me. I knew instantly they were full-aize, you know what I mean yeah of course and So that we pass the plate around I grab a nice big like 10 ounce filet and I I my you know My whole dinner it's beautiful my aunt and Uncle did a great job and I and I eat my 10 ounce filet and my two big potatoes because They were so good and I'm like Because I don't eat that much at one serving anymore Right, I mean they to me on I'm like good, but I was like We'd been packing all day so I was really hungry I was like fuck there's one more steak sitting there and I go to Uncle I go he You're gonna you want to split that steak he goes no no you have it and I'm like Can't eat another 10 ounce steak like And I was like maybe I can Fucking eat Let me yourself 20 ounces of Amazing filet in one sitting now. I just I have an eaten two 10 ounce steaks They might have been bigger than 10 ounces they were fucking thick. I have an eaten two steaks in one sitting in so long like old 300 pound me might have done it But yeah, there was so delicious. I just went fucking crazy on on dinner So yeah, that was what and now today's price is how much was that how much were those two steaks liner The ones I get are $40 a pound Right like so I ate like 50 bucks for the steak 60 bucks for the steaks That's a grip, but it's worth every penny Oh And then the best part the best part was that my aunt was like really happy. I ate it. You know when they're happy you eat Yeah, they're proud of you absolutely proud of you. She's like oh, I'm glad you glad you enjoyed yourself You know you're anxious you know you go to like an older like and you know or grandma or someone's house and they're like forcing you to eat But you're in the season. You're like had that for a while No one forces me to eat anymore dusty Well, look at your fucking walk around peeled I might have told this cop, but I'm telling it again just because it's funny okay to me So Ron we go to LA and he's like feeling thin like I could see it in his face like we're training so I decided to film him Okay, just to show him the fucking phone because he has no idea it's like it's like reverse body But he has no idea that he's peeled out of his mind. Yeah, I'm like I didn't do any tricky bullshit Ron if stood here and filmed and showed it to you immediately I'm like that's just what you look like just because you're not 320 pounds anymore like It was it was actually and I was shocked And the first I can tell is ballet but also when you're that lean it like you don't look small you know what I mean? Oh, yeah, it's it was funny Because because his is my like I literally he I think and I get it like if I was at That show whatever and then I'm like and you do realize it three people Have randomly walked over him like man you look good Rob Bailey did it first Yeah, we're training you just walked right over you like God dude you look fine good I'm like they don't just randomly compliment they know you they don't have to yeah I'm they're just happy I'm they I Rob told me he was really happy for me because you look like you're having a blast That's cool your Instagram you look you look like you're having a blast and I was like thanks man You know yeah, but that's you know what that's another example off topic You know they say You know Jordan Peterson Dr Jordan Peterson Oh, yeah, yeah, my favorite Be careful who you tell your good news to You know You sure you should only tell to people that are gonna be happy for you and huh and and be careful Who you tell your bad news to because some of the people you tell your bad news to or actually celebrating it you know Good point and and so anyways that my whole point is Rob Bailey is one of the people who Is every single time I see him he asks how I'm doing and wants to know what I'm doing and he's like Happy to hear good news. He's like one of those people so I that's why he's a good shit and you know I keep him he's on my list That's right One of those people him and Dana both I would say just a circle back to that question before we moved on if you remove the peptides Would it be fair to say that a competitive body builder even if they're pushing gear Could it easily stay under a thousand dollars on a contest prep for you know just gear alone like that's not gonna be hard to stay under a Thousand bucks yeah, you should be able to I mean honestly depends on what yeah Yeah, good to do the first of all people just take entirely too much shit. It's just complete nonsense like I've tried not to rant but like this one guy doing his very first shows like a novice show and he's telling me He's like yeah, you know, I'm just worried because I haven't been able to find provider and I haven't been able to find Hail a test and I haven't been able to find this and I've been able to find that and I'm like what do you need a That shit for yeah, you're using what are you using it because I'm just taking a bit of test in a bit of trend and a bit of anovar Make it a neat anything else You're good like you're good like just get ripped just trained and diet like you're on enough shit You're fine. You look great like you think these people think they need yeah like I can't do it show without three weeks of halo Right yeah, you can Remember a million people do it We've talked about this and and I know you know the the the individual in this Ron, but Chris was working with a guy and after a while He wasn't really happy with what was happening. Yes, we said are you sure your shit is real? Thank you and he was like you know what? I'm not I don't know when he goes do you have anything that you know is real? And he said yes, he was okay take that didn't even ask what it was He was probe he had veterinarian probe that he knew was real He had some pharmacy and a var that he knew was real and he wasn't even either either item Yeah So he switched on it just nick those there you go and that was what they prepped on for the rest of the way and he's and he did say told me I'm not sure told you to Dressed it change in a couple weeks Dressed it like mind bending any of the guy want his pro card so realistically to push it if you further We can say under $500 You can you can do a really good prep Lot of everything you could possibly want to take in really under 500 I said a thousand initially, but I'd say under 500 not a problem. I'm on the level you're at All I can say I can say this for 100% certainty. Yeah, I won the 99 Nobel burtas I was 244 pounds with stridey glutes and I took 500 milligrams of test a week and a bottle of clan There you go you can do the math guys and then Seven weeks out I remember it was seven weeks out. I went to seven 50 test and I took one Nobel X a day No room of the X huh no room and expect that even have it You know what's even funny about this is the reason that he went to seven 50 a day then It was because that's how much he had to get to the show. I know that that's the math You can get that I can't Yeah, because a friend of mine gave me seven more ampsisustin on that he wasn't gonna use Okay, yeah, I do Right, I mean the bottle of clan and the bottle of clan was a donation to a buddy of my union pump one pump of clan He gave me a pump he's like fucking go smash this and I was like thanks dude Yeah, it was like fucking poverty prep poverty prep full-time college spending like So much on chicken breast living on my friends a poverty prep Had nothing else I had handful of novedex tabs some sus an on amps bottle of clan That was it and then I Remember a Buddy in mine had like a bottle with some halo tabs that were rattling around in it Yeah, and I took 20 migs of halo for nine days Yeah, that was that was because he had nine days 18 Yeah, I remember all of that like I'd to vividly remember it all and so that was the first prep like And you know, I was like I was the best I'd ever been at that point. I was best shape I'd ever been in leanest I'd ever been in most shredded I'd ever been won the show and Yeah, poverty prep but that's not uncommon. You need all these drugs all those fucking shit Yeah, there's so much mental masturbation though this it's funny but I had this literally If you had I had a conversation with Jose about it and we talked about the obsession with win the take everything It was funny again obviously I know Jose very well, but he goes you take your growth home Harmon when you won't forget to take it. Yeah, that's when you take it and I was like Exactly, and also that complicated I really tried I really tried to not be late for my shot this week and I was a day late again Dude Thank God you're not taking this shit as some sort of a you know birth control Yeah, yeah You can now I heard about that anyways, all right. You got a couple more here Josh has won for us he says I just did a show and was what I thought the leanest I've been the issue I ran into was even after drying Myself dry even after drying keeping 1.5 gallons all the way to Friday Then cut the water off 12 hours out of the show which had me peeing a lot every hour But before hitting stage I started sweating like I was playing basketball Which led me to being a mess on stage Which I'm sure led to my third place finish my question is have you guys ever dealt with sweating issues? What causes this and suggestions on how to dry out with no sweat? You guys are the fucking best I love the podcast love the content you shouldn't pull your water Yeah, you overheated because you pulled your water out it never pulled it out Yeah, I Think some guys there's a lot of reasons why you can start sweating on stage sometimes it's nerves Sometimes people get really pumped up and anxious and they pump up and pump up and they're pumping And they're pumping and they're jumping around backstage and they're anxious in their heart rates like 150 And then they literally get like in a adrenaline dump on stage and they can get fucked up blood sugar and all that stuff But all of that stuff is Way worse and more likely to happen all the blood sugar issues and stuff if you cut your water When you cut water you risk messing up your electrolytes and then if I don't if you took dioretics But sometimes the timing's just brutal you just like happen to get you know You do that big pump up and stuff and then you get a blood sugar like a blood sugar problem or something And that's what causes all the massive sweating and all that shit and it just goes to shit and it all starts with being a little over-dehydrated I think You have to you want to avoid being overly dehydrated. I think it causes a lot of problems and messing with your electrolytes too much Yeah, I just don't think you ever need to pull all the way out because It's cooling to drink to bring fluid in you know and you're absolutely right with without your brought to the table But Any time I hear someone said they pulled their water Yeah, also how much did they pull with dioretics to you know, yeah, right? Yeah, and what diorics do you take I mean did you use something that's gonna mess without the astronaut levels? I mean there's There's a lot that goes into it. I try my best to keep things very simple when you talk about them But Some things aren't that simple. Yeah, you know, so I gotta be right back and those are things So I hope I hope that that's his gun being delivered instead of him picking it up and he's gonna bring it in But you can't it so that's not happening. I don't think that's happening I'm gonna do that in the U.S. either. They don't just deliver guns to your house At least not depends, but sometimes when there's a serial number that's filed off They'll bring that bitch right over right to your house. Yeah, there we go But you can't take that into school zones cuts against the law correct Do you remember dusty Maybe a 15 years ago like everybody pulled every ounce of water out like always It was just like that was just the thing like you just dropped it all by the end I remember but fortunately I was around people that You knew better. Yeah the other thing that I always thought was really funny was the one guys would be pulling their water while carbing up. Oh, yeah What's gonna move the carbs? Yeah, like you know, I mean I really have that that's one area that I would say even I've changed like I drink a lot more Like by the end of my career it was you know, I shouldn't say the career But when Chris never worked together I really realized the importance of water We were drinking so much so then cutting back was like okay have 12 ounces with each meal Yeah, and you still less, right? You know, and it's drastically less than you were doing but it's a lot. Yeah, yeah Do we have another one? We got one more one more one more for this episode And it is about Here it is running DACA Only David. What are you thinking question for the next podcast? Thinking about running a DACA-only cycle just as a science experiment with 300 a week be beneficial or should I just run it with test? Well I don't know why you'd want to just take DACA as a science experiment But hey, I understand the desire to try something I would never do it because I can't take DACA So I just would never do it. I would never consider it And now after living life on like TRT for a long time I could just tell you like I don't know how it gets any better than this Like why not just do this? This is awesome. So it's fucking phenomenal You know when you're I don't think he gets better Yeah, even your life is even matter just feel great all the time Like it is a question mark is how much you were taking because I know that that's an issue a lot of people running to I think I got popular in hindsight. I'll say I think I took too much test my entire career I think I could have gotten away with 500 Now I went higher And to the point of like I went to 1200 once and realized it wasn't doing shit, so I stopped some cheap But I really do think that the bump between 500 and 750 I don't know how much it mattered And the only reason I'm bringing it up is because I talked to Jordan about this and He actually likes doing things like no test because he found he can eat more You know, but again I've never discussed how much test he was taking so if you asked me like just what Ron just said if you're taking 200 milligrams of test I think that 300 milligrams of deck of with that would be better Then by the way, yeah, I'm not doing crazy doses, so yeah, yeah, but if you want to know an experiment fuck it Do it and let us know how about you tell me after you do that for 10 weeks how it goes I'm not a fan of it. It's not gonna go bad. I'm not either that's why I'm not doing it, but I mean I'll give some you know You tell me How it goes if it works geniusly I still can't do it because I can't take that go I just feel like there's so many There's so many people that are newer to bodybuilding that get wrapped up in this idea of We're doing experiments. We're exploring these drugs and I would say and I think I said this last week was just like Just do what works because what do you want to do? Do you want to be a scientist or do you want to be a bodybuilder that has a lot of muscle? Like the lot you know you might be able to make gains in Spite of your experiments, but my thought would honestly be like just do the things that work and Focus on you're training in your nutrition while you're doing those drugs to work because like that's the way You're gonna be able to grow the most don't lose sight of the end goal. The end goal is not experimenting Not being a scientist. You're not gonna win a prize. You know what I mean? This goes this goes for everything. You know the whole like It's kind of the eight if it ain't broke don't fix it type of a thing, you know Like the other day we we trained legs yesterday and think it was halfway through I was like what do you want to do next? Do you want to do leg press and we're like and I remember Brain said something to me and we kind of laughed it was like well, that's what we always do and Right we joked how like you know Brain and I started training together like four years ago and he was hacksquadding like four plates Okay And now he's hacksquadding eight plates for ten log So yeah we're doing like press next I think it was the one Because that's what what we're doing is working like You know what I mean? Considering what I've been through I'm maintaining my strength and size really well And then he's just adding a plate to everything every year. So yeah, we're gonna keep training this way There's no reason to change anything. You know it's fine. There's there's apparently a Misunderstanding or bad information out there. I had a guy this weekend. It was it was actually great and it worked out well But he told me he was saying I've had other trainers and I had to get rid of me goes because it needed said to me Ghost because I understand I know that you have to change your training every couple of weeks and you have to change your diet That's the only way you're gonna improve and I'm like Not weighted and I waited and I said No, not none of that is right You're like what do you mean and then I broke down I was like well If you're getting stronger you are changing your workout You are yeah, you're the chain You're volume is that technically you know and I said and and I said why do you have to change your diet like Why is it if you I said if you weren't changing then something has to change Yeah, but if you were if you're changing like why but the but the point of me bringing up is not that he was wrong He knew this I know these things and I might Don't tell my clients because I tell them up front I'm like runner we're gonna run this until I don't know the end of time possibly I don't know I mean, you know there are tweaks but overall The only time I'll I will tell him if you are just fucking bored you want to do something different tell me But we don't need to change this because you are changing quickly. Yeah, you know, so but but I did I found it very interesting because He knew you had to do that. I'm like you are talking to a guy who changed his training in 2009 Before you considered going to the gym was the last time I really I mean With the goal of bodybuilding was the last time I changed my train You know within reason Yeah, and even people that are having a hard time It doesn't necessarily mean they're on the wrong path Sometimes it's just really hard like this is really hard So like some people like I think I need to change my diet. You know I've only lost four pounds in the last month And I'm like well Yes, you're making like progress There's not a lot of like maybe you need to tweak your diet but like you don't need to change too much and if you change too much Like that you risk you know you already tell me a lot of four pounds of fat in the last month So like if you do that for ten months that's 40 pounds Yeah, you know like like there's a certain amount you know what or even half a pound I lost half a pound last week I need to I need to change something and it's like, hey, I don't know if you do Do a whole bunch of those weeks in a row and you'll see a massive you know you'll look a different So Being patient to his part of it. Do you remember Dorian used to say that you you should have visible change every month And if you have something that then you're fine and if you do not have Change in a month and yeah, you got to look at something But sometimes I think the other factor Being a dead horse here, but is the thing that might need to change is just the amount of effort you put into the exact same thing Yeah, you can never you can never really See how much effort someone is putting in You know actual effort into the sets and That's one of the things that's just impossible to measure and some people Never are able to really measure it themselves, but That the amount of effort that you put into like just your working sets That's a huge thing like just imagine you're prepping someone for a show and They're sticking to the diet perfect and they're doing the cardio exactly the way you tell them But maybe they're just not Training is hard on those sets and they're taking like really long breaks so the workout's not as intense and over time Just wonder how many calories that adds up to a company You know post you know the post workout window where your body's really roasting calories for You know another 12 hours because of how hard you trained I wonder you just do all the math on that I wonder if it's a few pounds of fat at the end of the prep Just a couple pounds of fat that would have made the difference Which is enormous Which is enormous even even one pound of fat can make a visual difference right? Sure, too two people that are shredded to the bone And you just wonder like there's just you can't you can't make them grind out those extra wraps and like do that Fucking really brutal that last set of like press that that they they just quite put their effort into or Or maybe they skip that set and you know you wonder how many calories That set would have resulted in metabolicly you know over the recovery period and all that you know Never know I know so my clients No one but you knows that If you left one rep if you step off the treadmill One minute early every day no one will know But you'll know you will and I think if you're if you're really on a hunt For the best you can be you also know I've done that How I did that a couple times when I was coming back last year I didn't quite know my bodies movements yet, you know and so I'm I'm was filming and I'd like I could tell My forearms going on dads and I'm just back in the dead so I put it down to stay safe not to watch the video Like fuck It wasn't coming Right I Definitely left at least one or two reps on the table And I was trying to be smart don't get me wrong, but that is a case of a Lesser one working yeah, but you don't mean like when you say to yourself like I think it is important to to truly know because even some higher level people They're like as soon as I went heavy, although my form went and I there's a couple of kids where I was the person filming I'm like to make Show the video like oh fuck That's not bad at all You were fine I'll tell you when you're in danger So we wrap is at it for the YouTube question episode guys. That's all we have yes If we're long enough, okay, we appreciate everybody like share subscribe comment and ring the bell and ring the bell And like I said we got some exciting stuff coming on the podcast We got some guests booked we're looking forward to it and Yeah, it's thanks for everything guys and remember it's just body building Yeah

Well, nothing will pride, and I held my head up high and said, you know what? It was worth it. It was all awesome, and I conceded. Yeah. A better man won, you know. That's freaking awesome that he can say that first of all, right? Well, yeah, and I think we need to touch on that in this video, because I became much more of a fan of Samson after watching this video. Saying, look, we were both at our arguably best of all time. I know we both worked our absolute, you know, hearts out for this thing. And better man won that day. It's not a loss to say that someone looks better than you. Yeah. Hey. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Think Big. Coach Andrew and myself are going to talk today about this video that Samson just put out. He says that he might not be competing in the Arnold UK. After he just looked for it incredible, potentially there's some health issues. He says he's going to the hospital. We're going to watch this video. We don't plan on speculating at all as to what's going on with him. I don't think that that would be called for that said, you know, Andrew and I have coach for over a decade now. We've competed a bunch of ourselves. And I mean, I think we've both run into various different issues along the way. I know I have how about you, Andrew. Yeah, man, there's been plenty of preps where I've just beat myself into the ground. And, you know, you ride that high after the show for that Saturday and Sunday. And then Monday, Tuesday rolls around. And it's like everything catches up to you, the fatigue. If you traveled, you know, you're even more tired, especially with the time zone changes as Samson has to deal with. So it's understandable that he's feeling a situation right now. And honestly, it's good to host a him for not ignoring it. And we're going to be with the hospital and just making sure everything is okay. Yeah. So let's watch this video and see what we can learn from that. I've been absolutely ill since the show, you know, this is one of those things when you're at that low, who low body fat. And you spend a lot of times in obviously expoes and meeting people and everything else. Things can tell to your buddies, no vulnerable in what usually is. But without said, you know, it's one thing, you know, going to a show. You know, we pushed, we pushed. And like I said before, this, I give my absolute best for this one. You know, I've gone from show to show, competing, competing. And I've given my heart out and I give my absolute best for this one. I need some of you watch my story a few days ago. A few weeks ago, I said, look, I don't know if I have anything to love to give. I've given everything else if I push any more. I feel I'm a wind up in the hospital. So we really, you know, don't need for that. And we brought our best to the stage. We've never been that good before. We brought our best to the stage and we battled and how fucking we battled. And I absolutely loved every moment of it. I, it was one of the most epic moments of a Universal stage. Going head to head with Mr. Olympium. And I felt like I was a little bit of a bad man. I felt like I was a little bit of a bad man. I felt like I was a little bit of a bad man. That's pretty awesome that he can say that first of all. Well, yeah, and I think we need to touch on that in this video. Because I became much more of a fan of Samson after watching this video. Saying, look, we were both at our arguably best of all time. I know we both worked our absolute, you know, hearts out for this thing. And better man won that day. It's not a loss to say that someone looks better than you. It's like you still look awesome. You're the second place Arnold Classic guy in the world. You're the third place Olympian. So you're in that realm of like, oh my God, you're one of the best. Yeah, and for him to have the guts and the maturity to say that. I mean, I just became a much bigger fan of him after seeing that today. I'm with you man, and he says more here that it just kept drawing me and I'm like, man, I like this guy more than I ever did after seeing this video. And I felt like, you know what, we gave everybody a show. We gave everybody our best. And after pre-judging, you know, we were told how close it was. We told that we had to come back the next day. So I even did, deep enough, I've got before for the finals. And with the hallard, they'd have sacrificed that, you know what? I could say that right now. I might just regret a little bit. But you know what? I came back back back out of the side of the day and you know what? We gave everything for it. And you know what? The better man won and I can see it to that now. Like, yeah, I shook his hand and I hugged him and I said, bro, you know, absolutely amazing that you're warrior. And this for me is what body view is about. It's two warriors on stage with every single one of us fighting to bring our best, to try to bring our best at that point. And at the end of the day, regardless of when loser draw. If you know you're giving your all, you shake the other man's hand and you have well done. Now that's a long thing to do that and feel that way, I feel that respect for each other on stage and I respect for what the sport we do on stage. Whereas another thing to come off stage and then have nothing but this respect, you know, given to you and your family for what? For sport, for this, to have my family, this respect, to have me disrespect as so badly for not winning when I gave everything. Remember after the Olympia, I said, I came out and I said, we have to make this whole better, we have to respect each other. We have to be more understanding of each other. And it feels like that completely fell on death years. We sacrifice a lot to do this sport. We sacrifice a lot of our health and our body and our families, privacy and peace to do this. But to not, to come out and be the first expected so badly by people that have no right to do so. And to humiliate us and my family because of your joys of what you feel is just and you feel is your opinion. Yeah, I didn't hear anything about this, did you? No, I haven't. I'm assuming, you know, similar to maybe last year after Derek won the Olympia group of people that either got a cell phone number or gotten the DMs and just started harassing him with all sorts of sense. I'm going to be honest, like someone of Samson's, you know, statue in our sport, I'm actually surprised he really cares about the negativity. And everyone's affected mentally by different things. I get to meet anyone that's ever done a full contest prep and got into crazy content shape and had a battle with someone when they lose. They would never, ever throw shade on someone that, right, represent it himself so well. That is so true. It's not like, you know, you don't see Jay Cutler going around and telling people they look like garbage, right? No. It's always losers. It's losers. That's do that kind of stuff. This but it's hard to see that and he mentioned Stu. He was like, hey, three years ago. It's a little bit later in the video. He was like, hey, three years ago, I just had like a full time job and it's like, I just do this because I love it. So this is, I think, here's my thought is that this has happened really fast for him, you know. And we all kind of have to get our skin thicker through the process. But man, even like, like, I can't imagine at that level to put yourself out there on that Arnold Classic stage at the Olympia stage. I mean, it's a lot and you're going to face, it's crazy. The people out there in the negativity, but I feel for him, man, I feel terrible that he feels that way. I mean, you and me do a show and someone doesn't like us. Right. Get two or five emails or text messages or DMs are like, hey, you suck, you know, right. What Samson does it? Does he get like a thousand? Thousands? You know, 10,000 does he get a hundred thousand? I think shut down, Derek, Instagram with so many negative messages. I mean, geez, I would just say, hey, man, that's a sign that you're doing the right things. If so many people have that kind of negativity and you know, you did everything right and you represented yourself well, and you're a good person, then screw those out of people. Bob Chick said this weekend on the podcast that what was it that he got hate from fans of the body because he didn't announce hotty as the winner. He had nothing to do with it. He was just the announcer, but he got hate mail and like that threats and all of that, just because he announced somebody other than hotty from hotty's fans. So it's wild, man. Let's see what else there is. Should we fast forward this? I don't know. Yeah, get to six six six minutes and 50 seconds in. He kind of sums up the health stuff that we're talking about. All right. And listen, guys, this is up over at Samson's Instagram. Right now, so you could check that out. I'll cut it back just a little bit before that. And you're because I'm not sure if my time stands for the same as yours. Arnold Classic champion, I'm getting disrespect of what? Bring it my best in the state and don't win it. And I'm being disrespect of for it. Is that cool? Is that home? No. Is that right? No. Well, you know what? Fair enough. Maybe, you know, I'm about on a stand. Maybe I come from different breed. I come from a different time. I come from different life. So I don't understand how this works. I put my hands up and say, I don't get it. I don't. Well, as of now, you know, this I have to take myself to the hospital to get checked out because I don't know. My body is just. I'm trying to push through. I'm trying to train. I'm trying to get through. I put my body is just failing at this point. And honestly, I just don't know what else I could do. So given what is happens to me in the next few days, after we get checked out in hospital, and what happens and the results of that, it would determine if I would be doing our in a class that you can next week. And I have to wait and see how that results back. And if I were able to proceed and carry on pushing my body to the limits that it is. So, you know, I really hope in that's not the case. I'm really hoping I can somehow carry this on. I keep fighting because that's what I've ever done on my life. It's keep fighting against all odds. But when my health is starting to fail, family and I have been dragged to the mud, I have to really stop and question why I'm doing this and why I'm putting them through this. But I really hope that all of my health, I really hope that that's not the case. So guys, I'm carrying an opportunity on how this goes. And as soon as I know what we want the plan is and what exactly I'm able to do and how serious this is, I'll let you guys know. But for now, we keep doing our best. That's what we have ever done. Man, it's some heavy stuff. When he said, why am I doing this? I'm question why. At the end of the day, I can think of several hundred thousand reasons why. I mean, he's one of those guys that's in that echelon. He can do it. He can do it. And I'm not as therapist, but I would just hit block all the crap and noise out. And just focus on the people that are in your camp. Think about how you're enriching your family with your success on stage, financial success. And then the other opportunities that are coming your way. And the real fans know. So yeah. You know, I remember a prep of my own. He mentioned near the beginning about going to the expo and having to put himself out there. And being in that depleted state, I can tell you, I got so sick after one of my preps. And it's always after the prep. Things are over. You start to rebound a little bit. And a few days later, then it catches up with you. And man, when you're depleted like that, maybe he caught something. I wouldn't be surprised because there's all sorts of crap going around that expo floor with all those people being packed together plus the flying. Being on a plane, man. That net self is a place that you can get sick. So being in a vulnerable state like that is detrimental. That's actually thought of the same thing. Having to be around thousands of new people. Even being in a different climate, for instance, my allergies are going through the roof right now. And I've been feeling like I'm having almost flu like symptoms with fevers and stuff due to the allergies. Victoria is as well. Yeah, he was in Ohio. It's a different climate than what he's used to. Maybe some pollen and stuff in here. Maybe his allergies are really just acting up. And that's why he's feel. Because when your allergies are that bad, sometimes try to go to the gym. And your strength is in your energy is just depleted. So I'm hoping it's one of those things, obviously. But we were talking about it last night. This is like our bedtime talk. Before bed, we were talking about how you can get sick without catching something from somebody that it's that you know, something triggers the side of kinds to just start kicking up. And then you're going to have literally all the same symptoms that you would if you were to catch something from somebody else. So there's no question. Could you to catch something from somebody else? Did he catch something? Did something internally happen? We know for sure that he's under a great deal of stress. And that's not going to make him feel better. Plus it's not going to help your sense of well being either. And you know. Yeah, I mean, I mean, he's gone several times zones in the matter of a couple of weeks. He's probably lost out on so much sleep. You know, is his immune system just compromised. And that's why. I know a lot of people are going to rush to the things that go under the sport and say, it's probably something related to that. But I think, you know, we got to look at the full picture and you know, understand that this guy is competing in a country that's not his own. He's been access to hundreds of thousands of people in the last couple of days that he doesn't normally see. Yeah, I mean, I just hope he starts to feel better regardless of whether he competes or not. Yeah. And I think that you'll better like go into the hospital. It's a good move. Get like all your lab work done. You know, and I'm sure he's been doing that all the way in, you know? Yeah. He wasn't taking a chance. But as soon, he's not taking chances. Nobody does it anymore. We're all getting labs all the way through. Yeah. I mean, you can think back to some of your hardprops. I mean, I remember there was one in the 2017 or 18 where, and I was still personal training. And I got to work. And I'd get to work at 530 in a morning, because I'd clients that early. Right. And I remember just like the stairs walking up because there's a parking lot and then you got to walk upstairs and then you got to walk through another parking lot to get to the gym. And I remember getting those stairs at like 525 and just looking at them for like three minutes and being like, I don't know if I can make it up these stairs let alone work today, you know? And then I, you know, I eventually I did. And I got to the point where some of these shows two weeks out, I would just call clients and say, hey, I'm sorry. I know this sounds completely ridiculous, but I'm not going to be working for two weeks because I'm so zapped on energy that I'm afraid I'm going to hurt you or myself with the things we're doing, you know? So yeah, I mean, I get it. Body fatigue, illness, whatever it might be. It's best to put your health first and play a safe. Yeah. And if Samson happens to watch this, I want to personally say thank you to him, you know? You know who I wanted to think this weekend and I ran into him and I didn't get to think him because it all happened so fast was Ian Valier. So I followed Ian from the like the time that I learned about him and not a lot of people knew about him yet and I even got to do an interview with him like early early on and I did also to background research to do a good interview and then I had the opportunity of watching him as a fan compete at the high level and be a top five thread at the Olympia and you know, now he's retired and honestly man, I wanted to stop and talk with him for a second just to say thank you for everything you did for me as a fan, meaning thank you for putting on a great hell of a show, you know? Unfortunately, you know what happened was there was one of those guys who tries to trick body builders and get them to lie about their weight and then they pull a scale out. Yeah. Swirl guy. I know just I've seen that guy. Yeah, that guy was there and he was wearing like a disguise. He was wearing a disguise so that people wouldn't recognize him and I saw Ian and Ian saw me and I went go shake his hand and then this guy walked up and then he was like hey, Ian Valier how much do you weigh and that whole thing went down. I was like are you kidding me is this really happening? Ian's retired. Why would he lie about his weight now? We probably didn't check his scale weight every day. He says to say five okay, it was 268 like you know he's really lying to you. Yeah. Yeah. Anyway, anything else we want to add to this injury? No. Like you said if Sam's and does watch this you looked awesome on Friday and Saturday and please put your health first and definitely a bigger fan after watching your video. Definitely. It made me a bigger fan. Me too man. Me too.

So I said to Chris one essay, I want to have a family in the future. I want to have a business And he turned around to me and said You can have all of it and be a world-class bodybuilder right now going into this show I would say to Chris like my confidence is fruit or roof like I'm just happy I know I'm gonna bring my best and I'm not even thinking about the competition and now I can be born. I can my head Right, so being able to get out there and show the physique and the crowd would really Responsive so I think I just made me enjoy it more and Mild shots Welcome back to it's just bodybuilding. I'm Scott McNalley with Dusty Handsha and we are joined by IFB pro Sasan Harati, what's going on man? Nothing much. Thank you guys for having me. It's a pleasure being on the show and Been very much looking forward to this one. It is absolutely a pleasure to have you here and before we get into it I have to say like share subscribe comment and ring the bell nice nice I've heard Ron say that so many times. I'm never the guy to say it and of course Don't forget to support the programming. I am mutant. You can go to item mutant.com Use your code Dusty or Big Ron either of those codes will work even though Ron's not with us today Ron already left He's on his way to Fibo So it is the three of us today and we're freaking pumped to get Sasan on because I literally just saw him here into Troy Dusty And it was a freaking incredible show man Yeah, I'm excited to see I didn't even know that you're competing in a few days Yeah, so you know, I'm like oh, so it's good to know that you're rested You haven't been suffering in any way you're just relaxed and ready to get this rolling so Yeah, I'm fine. I'm so trained a little bit this time, but nothing like I usually do So with that I have a little plan here to go way back in time But I kind of want to start in the current first Get us caught up for those following. I know you you've worked for yourself You've worked with Chris what's going on currently for this prep So this prep has been all Chris from It's been a short prep to be honest 10 weeks out from Detroit. I decided to jump in and The initial the plan was to go with Chris to the Olympia last year I the only time I did my own prep was last year was my comeback show after six years Yeah, I started the prep with Chris but halfway through I just Just wanted to do my own thing. I think it was The family thing the routine. I didn't know how I was going to do on stage It was more the comeback was more for the coaching and The lifestyle and a little bit of business traffic that kind of thing So my goal wasn't an Olympic qualification So in that sense I had had a young baby at the time. He was only a few more told and then my second was three or four years So I wanted to plan my own time around that schedule and be able to prep and Be able to get back to my coaching clients and my family So I needed to plan ahead a few days at a time You know with the food and the just the schedule cardio and training So I didn't feel like I could completely 100% give myself up to even a Chris he would have Accommodated, you know what he's like. Oh, yeah, oh I didn't feel like it was fair to say Chris I can't do this I can't do this today. I'll do this in two days and It didn't feel natural to do that with Chris so I did my own for like the last seven weeks Oh, but I did I'm gonna give him a peeled pot It was flat and it was peaked too early and Peak week wasn't the way it should have been but it was a good show It was a great comeback had great feedback I came for a placed for to Bonak berries and Prisau which wasn't you know, it wasn't bad. I was happy with that And but moving forward the idea was just to get back with Chris and get to the Olympia no matter why I had to do This is switched off and It's been probably the best crap. I've ever done it. It's just been Every two weeks at message Chris and say like Chris this is this is super easy Let's not let's not jinx it even like four weeks hours like Chris I still don't feel like I'm dying the cardio was barely I could probably count on two hundred how many cardio sessions you made me do they entire prep Carbs were high There was no stress my sleep's been perfect. I think the only time I started to feel the bite was the last Probably from two weeks out I Start to feel like okay, I'm a little bit hungry now and I feel a little bit tired But nothing I couldn't you know it was crazy. I say to me. I'm like honestly I feel absolutely fine Peek weeks the only time I start to feel it. I think when we start to really pull Pull the fluid out and he's like to feel empty and brittle that's the only time Or than that it's been an amazing prep It's short because I was planning on doing Pittsburgh And then full-eyed message me a Christmas and said look, you know, you should think about doing Detroit It's an early show it'll be you know Not easy but it'll be you have more chance to place So I thought well, I'll do the try it's pit suppose looking to be stuck which it is now Oh, yeah, it's like an Olympia line of mine as some sense So I'm glad I did the try because It was a great prep we landed it perfectly and I got to stand next to the one act which I think Showed a lot of my strength that I've been working on agreed Yeah, so it was the plan wasn't to do another show but on the way back I just sort of something play and think you know I feel really fresh so It's feebo and I'm just I just want to jump in it. I just want to strike while the iron's hot And then Chris B. Chris said why not so here we are for these five days out But to go again When do you head over So it's Monday night. I am I fly Wednesday night so in two and two days Yeah, I'll leave me in registration is Thursday I think tannin is Friday and then the show is a one day show on Saturday So nice now I want to kind of take back to last year first off the the layoff Six years was that a retirement originally what was the deal there? Yeah, it was it was Many reasons the main one was I was tired of coming second No, I was relying on Sponsors and prize money a little bit too much Right, I didn't have yeah, I didn't have a full back so I decided to step back kind of work on social media Coaching just something to get onto my own two feet But at the same time I wanted to start family before it got too late for me and Leon So it was an easy decision to just say right I need a break that break quickly turned into I'm happy now. I'm actually coming every tire. You know you get comfortable right and um But that over there it was a six year break I think by year three I was I'm at the lifestyle still trained I didn't eat Six meals I had maybe three meals a day I still loved it just as much I was I was a bodybuilder I just didn't get peeled or stupidly heavy right fade in that middle ground But the passion and the reasons I did it in first place started to come back to me Prepping all the guys for shows Getting excited for them to get on stage then watching all the the young guys I grew up with Climb in the ranks and I just felt like okay I'm gonna regret this when I'm 60 right I didn't you know I didn't quite scratch the surface of my potential So it turned into like I think I need to get back on stage even if it's just to say I give it one more go and If I can get to the Olympia that would be kind of the seal That I could say and retire happily afterwards I was a long time I wasn't sure my body's was gonna do with it so I had some pains if it's mine now so But I have I have seen some aging in certain body parts And obviously some aches and pains but as a whole after speaking to Chris this is definitely Am I by best so For the foreseeable I'm gonna try and keep going and not for too long But because I want to be around for my kids, you know, like I said so I reckon you know the next year or two I'll give it then what did what did Leanne say when you When you said you the itch was needing to be scratched You know she wasn't 100% happy with it initially, you know early on in the in the break when I started to kind of mention You know I don't know if I'm done yet But I think she saw it in me that I still I had to I had to do it because otherwise I'd have regrets Right and I'd resent myself So she saw that in me towards the back end of the six years and Also it helps the business it helps you stay relevant on social media Sure and with me my physique has always helped open Opportunities of every time I got on stage Something opens up you know like there's a light bulb moment And I needed those opportunities to fall into my lap a little bit so it was kind of an overranger But I've enjoyed it more than ever. I've actually enjoyed being on stage Which I never really used to I always I did the prep and I just wanted to count stage and get offstage and then look at the next go Whereas now I'm actually enjoying working with the crowd and Join pose in a little bit more than I used to when I just kind of I'm taking it all in I love that The children that sense I've kind of got a question that's related to that is you know Loving like you did it before you obviously enjoyed bodybuilding before you stepped away and you came back and Competitively and you know you you have more age now right more wisdom and I think that as we get that Age and wisdom we gain more appreciation for the things that we have you know What is it like give me a couple of examples of like things that Maybe you didn't even expect to be like oh, yeah, I'm back in it and I absolutely love this part of the sport, you know So it's it was probably the part I hate the most it was show I showed it I just didn't I never used ice to be so nervous I hate it just waiting backstage and pumping up and I didn't like feeling weak and behindrated I didn't look I didn't look at it from look at how I'm looking on stage on these lights I didn't look at it from all these years of hard work months of prep and this polished Conditioned crazy looking physique. I'm inside it. I didn't look at it from that point I just looked at it as I feel like crap. I want to get off stage. I want to eat Yeah, I just didn't you know I I love the journey in between those bits But this time I remember a Spain last year I was backstage and then some of the other competitors Was saying hi to me and saying now, you know, we're a fan you know guys I was on stage with my mic class it took pictures with me and that's that to make me feel Okay, so this is this is definitely I never looked at it as it was my dream job So it hit me last year in Spain that I am literally doing something that a lot of guys would love to do a lot of guys would love Imaginetic my sponsors Be able to just get on a plane go to another country and compete with possible prize money All these other things were like all of a sudden lit lit up in front of me and Speaking to Bonach speaking to like better news last year and I thought Right, I'm gonna be the pro bodybuilder now. I want to go out there and part and show when I want to show my physique off And that's that to get with pumped I remember we got we did our individuals and I just came off stage And I and I really enjoyed it the crowd were cheering It's like I was seeing him here and things and never used to see and here back in you know 15 16 17 Yeah probably because I had these like these blinkers on that just wanted to create this physique Get my prize money and go off stage so And you miss in half the You realize that you know you've created a physique that is worth Showing off on stage and that got me really pumped and it made me proud of you know to you know Being able to show my hard work Yeah, there's a decade of hard work, so It's kind of just like all came together You know as as you say that I'm thinking about your routine from Detroit and I shot video of it Maybe I like in the post production. I should overlay that and I'm sure people have seen it And it was a beautiful routine and The the poses that you hit like it wasn't just like your standard here's a most muscular Hand of the yeah here's a most muscular like dusty he had some really good like twisting shots and here's a back shot Here's this other like it was really well put together man and I could tell that you had a passion for that routine and I don't know if you could hear the audience from up there, but there was a lot of people that were behind you at that show too I did and I'm not really the guy who Can wet the priorities. I'm quite shy. Okay. I don't see now I know he's the sea of the old hand the crowd like I said But in that routine, I know it's not a kind green, but it's also not a robotic one. It's kind of in the middle I like watching rodent Sean Ray, you know those guys who have the slow transitions Yeah, I've had this routine as like a template from day one I never used to do it slow enough. I never used to enjoy hitting shots Where is now I get I won on stage and because I was in such a good condition Every time I hit a pose I could hear the crowd So that made me slow it down even more and really hit the poses and Since then I've been working on them because some of my twisting stuff Well, it just wasn't I wasn't quite hitting so the next one will be better. Okay, but yeah, I It's funny because I had this kind of routine for my pro card win back in 2016, but I every time I got on stage I'll tweak it. I'll add something and I'll take something out But I think because I'm much more confident Right now going into this show. I would say to Chris like my confidence is fruit or roof like I'm just happy I know I'm gonna bring my best and I'm not even thinking about the competition and now I can be born I can my head Right, so being able to get out there and show the physique and the crowd would really Responsive so I think that just made me enjoy it more and That milk the shots and Use the music to just yeah, it was fun In hindsight cool now that you've got the backing of a career that you've put together in a business Do you think that that's helped allow you to enjoy it because in the past like you were saying You needed that prize money good point. It hadn't happened to Sement the doing held to live but also just to like that decided success or failure was Did you make enough money to make it worth it to wear as now? Obviously we all all could take a little extra chunk of change here there But your life doesn't change No matter what I mean 10 grand 20 grand is not gonna change your life Obviously it's enhancing but it's not paying your mortgage now have you found that that allows you also to Relax and be a little more present because you're not thinking like okay this will Pay the bills or this will make sure that you know our kids are handled 1000 yes 100 It's like back in if I were on to 2017 at it two shows Back to back I only placed in one of them So I came back in a negative foreground That's a hard pill to swallow when you know you haven't got a hundred percent secure income or good money flowing in that's enough to kind of say what's the point? You know even though you're coming second you're almost making it to the Olympia You know the numbers weren't making me feel You know safe or secure when I come back home and I'm thinking To that's one of the things that made me a little bit bitter towards It made me think I should beat in that guy You know he had no hamstrings and he had no calves why is it beat I was I was questioning stuff that I shouldn't have I should have just kind of put behind me and said right we'll come back better Right because there was this cash Like obstacle in the way It stopped me from being confident and being able to progress and And Finally just it made me just stop all together so I could focus on the security of money But where is now? Going into a show knowing that okay five place first or last I'm coming home They say I'm no no worse off I'm no better off. I'm no worse off and I can just continue doing what I'm doing And because I'm already enjoying the train and again and competing side of things I think not just in houses it brings stress levels down And when I'm happy and chill I always perform better in the gym You know it's it all just it all flows a lot easier Yeah, it's it's funny because it's something and I know you coach a lot of guys now So I'm I'm assuming you hammer a lot of these things same things home But that's a certainly I press on to guys coming up no matter how good they are is A what are you gonna fall back on but be what is left when you're done? You know like you said Doesn't you win this week obviously that's great but you will The journey and the pictures and in the fans and eventually the clients that come from it are Farm they're they're more lucrative than the prize You know, I mean and and using your Your own prep some things as a way to build that business is always the way that I saw it I see a lot of guys who are who are great pros who are making who are getting the checks consistently And I still can't help but thinking about back in my mind you have all this time Why aren't you creating something to build off of you know We just got we go way way back I actually Gave sass the not so subtle Nudge to to higher Chris okay. Yeah back in the day Okay What we talk about what's back in the day give give that breakdowns sass All right, so I used to follow dusty When he was with I false He had a he was on YouTube doing cooking videos. He had a mohawk at the time I bet didn't he? You did he did yeah He did an Chris prep to him at the time. Yeah, that was a big one of Chris So anytime I found something to do with Chris because I was learning I would fix it on it to find information about our Chris's mind work so And then Dusty came up I think he just did the nationals and Then there was all these cooking with dusty videos and training so I just thought I'd like just like watching and I was like I'm gonna minute you can make your green beans taste pretty good in prep And I was just like I was hooked on all his videos and Chris would do his high days and Dusty would go into it and I was just I was a big fan straight away and then it was body power 14 okay Yeah, 2014 mealy on We cut up to meet Dusty and You know I did the whole you know a big fan and I've just competed and then Dusty so okay. Let's have a look at your pictures and I showed you our pictures and he was like all right you work you work him with anyone you know You basically said you know you've got the potential to go pro Let me speak to Chris and I'll Facebook you how Facebook message you and yeah He message me later all the next day or a few days later Said I send me some pictures on a sentence a Chris and He sent him to Chris and then he wrote back and said this is email If you know you know, we'll work with you and I was just like I was I'd spent years just looking up Chris's Q&A's on funny little Not calm and all of a sudden Dusty who I'm a fan of as has put me in touch with Chris's E-Tow And I was just like is this real? So spoke with Chris and he said yeah, let's you know, let's get it started and I think I borrowed the morning off my dad at the time Because I didn't have anything as we got I need to I need this and I need to I need to I need to work Chris He's gonna make me grow and then that was it that the rest up done 11 years with Chris minus those seven weeks in Spain And I think it's it says all tells a lot about Chris because I don't think Dusty I will eff them So it's just so I always think Dusty whether it's in reality or in my head I've always you know, it's it's the style of my career The different story for me Scott yeah was when I opened the photos went oh Shit, oh, I know what a real body better looks If I was can do this with me I can't even imagine what he can do with this guy You know, I could imagine what you saw man because sass has like just you have incredible shape like you're even if you didn't have the size You have now like I could imagine with less size it'd be like oh, yeah, this guy's got something you've just got really round muscle no matter how you slice it, you know You can go back in the day Scott As soon as I looked at the pictures my brain went Slice overdited okay, yeah, okay, this is a guy that's not afraid to work. Yeah But he just needs someone actually to tap the brakes on him a little bit which is what Chris does so well You're pushing forward and then all of a sudden your brain you're like oh, I better I better do to plead a little harder Yeah, Chris is like go eat a cheeseburger and you're You know don't do cardio for the next week and and you're you're just like this is I don't know about this And it never ceases to amaze because And I'm sure you can relate to this ass is like I've always said there's two people that prep themselves for a show If they're less than successful it's the guy who is so worried about size that doesn't get hard enough sure or the guy who is so obsessed with being shredded He goes too far. Yeah, and That's where you kind of fell into the play. It's like It's never enough one way or the other if you're one of those two guys and you need somebody that comes in that you can trust 100% and with obviously Chris is Experience and the way he handles things. I was like I Plug these two in I almost felt bad like I wanted to like send a notice out to all the guys getting ready for Same show. I'm like hey, I might want to stay home on this one. It's it's not gonna be a good day for you Yeah, you're absolutely right Chris is Chris still to this bread 11 years on he's still surprised me this pride really yeah, like He would just feed me he would do things with supplements that I'm like that you know you've never done this before But the thing with Chris is that the dusty said you just don't question it you just You follow what he says and you know it's gonna work and even if he has no idea why he's just done something It works And yeah, even even like I think it was two weeks out I sent my morning pictures Any semi the dive for the next day and then he said send me some gym pictures tonight today Send us some post-work out pictures and say all right take a mind He went from a usual three and a half thousand calorie day to a big seven thousand calorie refeed So so just like you're still what what what made you change You mind he goes At the time I was 249 an reset because you're gonna be 247 to one over one So I know I'm gonna tell you I'm gonna I woke up 247.3 Must is Chris right yep you're right and then he literally he saved me from Probably getting on with another low-dead Yeah, and then it will give the where I would have half-lead on four more low days yep My crap lost strength in the gym and just slow the machine down and just probably just you know push the body too far So he did that all prep be just like Yeah, it's crazy. I just count some it blows my mind even after 11 years. That's cool. Yeah. It's it is something he does gotten it always drives me nuts because any time he'll say a number It's correct like every time he'll tell me oh do this do this tomorrow you're gonna wake up at x Okay, and you wake up in the morning and it's like After a while you just go step on the scale so you can laugh you're like yeah How did you how did you know what was gonna happen before hand? Yeah, so this is this sorry. This is a crazy world three four weeks out I was 256 252 552 56 and I message Chris and I said you know I still like 25 pounds above The Spain prep at this point. I was so chavya And he goes yeah, you look at and then I said And then he said you're gonna be 252 hard hard like sliced and this was four weeks out I was like now that's three pounds away right and I've got way more to lose Anyway, and now that I'm ready to go and if anything with the plea it I'm 250 now sliced Oh, I get 250 too still hard Right and he nailed it from four weeks out that was just you know any other coach would say yeah a couple of pounds a week You know we're gonna lose another six eight pounds. Yeah, but not Chris It's amazing he definitely has that that view now With that What have you been able to take from Chris that you're doing with with your clients whether it's competitive clients or just you know Red clients it you know what what kind of things have you stolen because I know Iran I have both robbed him blind of everything we've learned Ah It's probably like 95% of what I do is off of what Chris has done One thing I tend to find this off doing more and more is Sitting and just waiting to see what another few days on the plan does okay You know instead of well, there's been no change in three days instead of changing something Just say well, let's just give another couple of days Right another couple of days and then find that a lot of the time things just start moving The other thing I've used recently is Chris checks me in every day. I don't know if he was like that with you. Oh, yeah More than one today So we used to be every two to three days Well, I remember when I got with him last year we had like 20 weeks And he was doing every day so and then at one point it was like 20 weeks out said Should I check in every day still? It's like well, I think twice a day might be too much at this point I thought From 20 weeks out I'm getting my money's worth there, but I know it's So I started to look at my own coach in and think you know There's guys that I'm checking in once or twice and they're not really changing So I started to do like you know every other day and then these guys without changing the plan They started to progress Because they you know well, I've got a day or two so I need to work Whereas it's like I forgot a week to check in with us You you don't you know you might pump the brakes on for a like a day or two Oh, honestly So that's something I've taken away and the other thing was just as you know minimal Supplement and just let's see what the body does with it health. I think a healthy fresh body Rested body seems to give you more And one that's just been smashed just to get heavy or strong and And it's okay to get soft in the off season right Yeah, that was probably a hard one for you to digest you're always Your his version of soft by the way is is not soft for the record right Let's let's be clear that Soft to him is 9% body fat, but Exactly, so with the perhaps this year Have you found like what are some parts of the of the preps now that you're enjoying it more now that you're more in the moment That you've really could aren't cut in on and there's are things that you're You're kind of learning in this process and I know as a I've essentially been a step in dad for just a little longer than you now And I find that my life and the things that I learn Become things I try to figure out how to teach so that they can learn them not when they're in their 30s But maybe in their teens is there things that you're kind of catching along the way that you're passing on And hoping to as they get older. I should say your kids are so yeah There's stuff I've learned from crap or just just in general like from from your approach to prep from from doing what you love versus Just doing and you know and being in the moment that stuff I think One thing is try not to second guess and I don't think yourself too too often you know if you say yourself a girl Get it done even if you might not Want to do it in the middle just get the job dog and then Decide if you you know if you want to do it again or continue doing it I think knowing that having faith in the fact that you are of working hard Well, hey off instead of just You know sit back and wondering like what if I did it this way is there a quicker way to do this or you know Like just stop that and just get just do it you know switch that off almost and just get the task done And then look back at it sit back and look back and really while you Analyze it in that sense That's something I would like to Teach or trying to teach because mine are very young still The other thing is Just be in present and kind of just Switching off the distractions In the past in perhaps without the kids I would You know in between meals you're thinking about meals or anything in our bodybuilding you think about training or You know and it can get a bit too much especially when in prep your hungry and tired and it's game quite hard Thinking about hard it is it can really put you off and it can make it worse Where to in here with the kids You know even if you aren't like the energy you can sit there with them You know watch watch something there watching play something there play and go out with them I Think there's there's there's ways you can fill in the gaps in time To make that day go a little bit easier and more more positive less stressful Which in turn always helps the end goal I think so yeah, they've definitely made it Probably why I haven't done any cardio because then It's hard to sit down much and I think the basics I go in back to basics basics in life you know simplicity Go for walk Going out and playing physically Sit together and reading you know there's the stuff that people might not tend to do that much Just kind of shutting off like social media and the news and you know whatever else nonsense is going on and just like just being with each other. I think is is priceless I think I would like them to be Be there you know as much as they can with their with their kids and Promise that kind of thing. I think everything else for them lying if you've got the good relationships there all the time Yeah, I think that's all right Yeah, no, no, it's good because that's that's kind of what I was was looking at because Now You know as an outside just for your description You're a lot busier than you used to be. I mean you were just prepping for shows You're only job was to get ready for the show and focus on it Whereas now You've got a family you've got You know your work that needs to get down your clients that depend on you Their goals don't take a back seat to your goals Which means you have less time to just sit and overanalyze like you said You know just sit there and and judge a long stuff that really doesn't matter I know Scott you know when he first started was was working a Ridiculously busy physical job and You know, I'm sure Scott you can wear that but like you don't have time to do those things because you're doing too busy My first prep the company I worked for before I worked for the pop company They were closing and I knew what was happening and it was happening during prep So they're like we're gonna lay off you know you so you can start looking for work And I was like no man. I'm gonna be in prep I'm just gonna live the dream I'll collect the unemployment for a few months during the end of my prep and then I'll look for a job after that and Oh my god I thought I was gonna be living the dream and it was Compared to the next time I prep so the next year I prepped my girlfriend was dieting to I was working Seven up plus I had kind of like my night gig Doing a Q&A online for bodybuilding stuff So worried about her so worried about getting my job done plus I have all this other work to do online that I Realized it was her day for the show and I realized I'm like why are you two people keep asking me if I'm doing the show today? They were asking me because I was like peeled inside out and I realized my show is in two weeks Like my prep's already over You know that I was in better shape. I had a better experience and it was like I wasn't so self-focused I was you know concerned about other people and taking care of the things I need to do in life The whole time you were saying that sass that's exactly what I was thinking of was the difference of those two Preps sitting on my couch all day thinking about when I'm gonna do my cardio or like getting out and doing stuff You know I'd be much rather be busy. Yeah, yeah, it's funny because before I stopped I remember saying to Chris It was when I thought you know this is this is too much work for what I'm getting in turn So I said to Chris one essay that I want to have a family in the future. I want to have a business And he turned around to me and said You can have all of it and be a world-class bodybuilder. He said like you don't need to be Adoring yates that's a hundred percent You know taking over by yeah the routine which obviously he's on another level but I Was I'm gonna be a donnie egg so I wanted to have a family and a couple of businesses But at the time when he said it I said no I can't do that while prepping for a show I can't I can barely walk my dog 20 minutes a day Getting ready for a show there's no chance but then fastball it now If I was to go back to my old self and say you're gonna have two kids two boys on the five You're out with Ryan being coaching business. You're gonna have sponsors that you're gonna have to work for every day Too slow for You're gonna have a mortgage you're gonna you know There's gonna be people being an obviously public relationship And I would have to turn around and say there's no way I would do a bodybuilder prep in that situation no chance But it's funny because you're right that you make it work like I think knowing that I've got these plates to spin Yeah, it makes you Excel like more so than you are the fall you could and yeah, it's quite Quite rewarding and then when you do manage it you just want to be able to keep going and do more Would do you find also that With all the plates going You're more successful in all of them because you don't have the ability you know like you didn't know this But like when you and I met I still owned five stores So when when I would leave the Like when we would go to feeble When you go you get down with feeble you go back of course, you know the routine you you have a meal you had to the gym You come back you to meal with the team everyone goes to the room and goes to bed I would go to the room and then work on my business for four hours and then Say okay, it's time for bed. I can sleep for three Be up and and at the breakfast table with everyone else in the morning and It's kind of funny, but in hindsight I'm the opposite stance. I'm like how the hell was I doing all of that But it's because you you had to be ridiculously organized You know I've a I've a good friend that's just competed recently when she's a pro and and makes good money as a pro But I'll laugh because I watch like the updates and it's like laying on the couch and saying I just trying to turn to a muster of the energy to go do my cardio and I'm thinking when you're busy It's not about energy it's about time We do cardio at four fifty three in the morning. That's when it gets done because it's the only time you have And then you know you eat your meals when they have to be eaten and Everything is just on a clock and then you come home when it's 11 pm and you're like oh bedtime And you do it all over again the next day And I feel like that is an area that you the people don't understand You can really thrive and and things Feet each other because then when you're at work you're like listen I've got 27 check-ins today I have to knock out 11 of them before my next meal and then as soon as I'm done with that I'm gonna do X amount before I do whatever else is on the schedule and it really does lock you in to where you're more efficient and and operate in a higher level because I'm sure your clients notice like Okay, he's you know a week out and I just set my check in 45 minutes you want to answer Yeah, yeah, I run being on the airway on the runway of the airport in the plane About to leave and then I was using the last bit of internet To do not these emails out yeah, and we were people next to we were just watching like they're all waiting And then and then I I find that I could pay for a little bit of Wi-Fi on the plane so I I paid and I was doing emails in the air which I found was pretty crazy To be careful oh yeah on the way back the Wi-Fi wasn't strong so Again when we're landing and we had a lot of time between landing and coming off and I was I was I was I Right how many emails can I do now? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, even from weeks before I was thinking Am I gonna be that the airport how long I had a layer of rinse Paris? All right, I've got an hour and a half there to do some work and It's crazy because it felt normal to me Yeah, I was when I was on the plane and there were people napping next to me waiting to get off Fall asleep and I was thinking yeah, that's not that's not me right now And I prefer it not to be because I think when you stop It slows down and you slow down yeah, and I can't pull off the treadmill because you've built this life Like yourself you've helped out so many businesses When you slow the treadmill down everything stops the crumble around you Yeah, and if you're all really fall apart quite fast. Oh, yeah, and so just it just pushes you to keep going Yeah, I went out. I wanted to ask you a little bit about training, you know I I don't know. Do you remember sass? We did a podcast together. It was like I got 2016 and at the time you had been training with Jordan and so and that's when Jordan was doing muscle minds with Scott and I Yeah, we wanted to bring sass on and talk about it and I recall you're like, you know this training is not for me You know, which I think is a big thing to be able to say I love Jordan first of all Incredible dude incredible training, but you sit in a room with him and tell him that you want to train in a different way than he trains It's almost like when Jordan talks it's almost like there's no other way to do it That's the way it just feels to me and to be able to like have the guts to even say like I don't think this is for me, and that's what you did I I'd love to hear you talk a little bit about how you figured out That yeah that heavy progressive overload of that style wasn't for you and you know talking to Alex from a W muscle fitness you told me you've got some pretty unique training techniques and ideas of your own So I'd love to hear what you do unique I guess in the sense that they're not they're not They're not new newly invented but unique in the sense that I blend things together I think I guess I cross over different styles Just to suit what my body needs at that moment in time. I think that's one thing I've done I am able to do now is really tuning in to what my body or that muscle group needs at that Set and time in on that day in the gym But backtracking a bit yeah being able to say No was easy for me because when I go back to when I first started weightlifting I was 13 I've all set of weights in my root in my bedroom. Everyone's same story But it was me and these set of weights and this poster I had that I copied All the different exercises on it and that was it that was that was the that was bodybuilding to me obviously I start to see the physics later on in the magazines and the movies but For me it was what what was my mom cooking To put me to eat to be able to train in my room to be able to train it stronger and feel that It was about feel it was about enjoying it with no one watching And I remember like few mom saying I went to school and then the couple of the plants were saying You look like you've You know both of a bit now's the first sense of achievement and I was thinking I did that You know it was it was my training and it was in my room Obviously learning off what I've recognized So fast forward to trying different styles Every time I went into a specifically strict style training A the firstly I didn't like the fact that my Three is a bird mentality in the gym was taken away from me because I've ever been with that That was just I like to go in and like to feel like what I'm doing in the gym Set plan yeah, and then I want to be able to know I can adjust it The other side was the the passion and the feel When I was doing Congress and Global which is obviously it's a great way to train I still use it but when it was a hundred percent push pull legs In for this number on this set I felt like I was in in in prison Train in prison and I had to do it this certain way and if I hadn't covered all the variables over the last couple of weeks And I didn't hit a lift it would eat away of me and it would start to kill that kind of passion and feel that I had from day one And we've bodybuilding If it wasn't If I wasn't passionate about what I was doing it just I didn't I didn't excel like I didn't do I didn't work hard I didn't want to do it And knowing that it's Someone else is planned for us to me which it wasn't it was my choice sure Just took away that kind of this is me like I'm in control And I think that this engages my mind and mind stint You know of how what my body's telling me because I need to hit this I need to hit this number Regardless of how I feel And the way I trained that I had some niggles and injuries by that point who doesn't I wasn't In tune with that anymore so I was sometimes doing a little bit of damage without Thinking about it because the adrenaline again a big set the adrenaline will just must the pain Yeah, it was a different mentality for me so I think that I I straight away I realized that it wasn't going to be beneficial for me even if Even if let's say I followed it and I got the biggest the strongest I could have got What's the point when I'm not passionate about it you know to me it was it wasn't making me lose a money at the time It still doesn't but so what's the point when you don't love it when you don't love the fact that you're going to go to Jim And you don't love what you're about to do it took me a long time to figure that piece of it out But that's the most important part of any training plan isn't it that number one you enjoy doing it, you know Yeah, you believe in it. Yeah, yeah Because that they all work and they all work and then fast forward today that you know someone asked me what's that you probably will you when you love while you're Push-pull legs that you grow and and I'll just say look I I'm not against any of it and I will use any of it But any any time if I want to go in and just do one set on everything Work up to one big set Which I have been in this last office and I went for a couple of weeks when I was going and build up to one or upset I just felt yeah, I felt good. I felt strong. I felt like my body was enjoying it and I was enjoying it But then that it comes a day where it's like right this isn't gonna work today So I'm gonna back off and do Param it up and do three works everywhere. I'm not going beyond failure. I'm gonna stop I'm gonna have a short rest period and we're going in and then you fill in the muscle up in a different way And it feels different Then you see yourself different in the mirror and you kind of enjoy it in a different way so I kind of just Majority of time on a little bit of a higher volume Bro split but like I said I bring you know all the different all the different methods I like to be able to use them all it's like if you've got You got access to 10 super cars for a hundred McLaren push, you know, do you want to just Drive one for 12 months not really you want to be able to just go in and drive whichever one Tickles you fancy that day, you know, I mean right that's another thing I heard about you you're a big car guy Yeah, big car guy Wasn't What's more expensive body building your cars, you know The way that yeah, my most starting Bill would say because of the moment Yeah, it's never ending but it's like I said it's passion Do you find that Having the external like Ron is big on this and actually I adopted it from him but Having the external passions that have nothing to do with body building Helps around you out in a way that not only you enjoying life more, but like you said it sounds like enjoyment is the the key motivator for you the thing that makes you want to do things Do you find that having those extra things kind of Enhances body building as well? Absolutely, I think they all work together. I think that If you're happy there and there Whatever you're doing outside of your but you know, whatever you're doing with your body in mind is just gonna be Don't it's a it's a higher level More productive level you're gonna enjoy it With the cars It was my first love before body building was cars If I was if I had the mind to be a mechanic I'd probably be a mechanic Totally rubbish I broke more things than I could that's what I was gonna ask you so like you don't do my own work out your cars Yeah, I've tried okay, I'll give it up. Yeah, yeah, I just pay all the people to do it now. Yeah It's like my drive to the gym My Echemic experience of the drive to the gym is a part of it for me Being able to just get in the car hear that VA put some music on Um That starts to get me you know get me going My son loves it. He loves the sound I love I love just looking at the car. It's what makes you feel that like dusty said my I had three worth to describe myself that that I look at life I think one was happiness One was convenience. I think one was comfortable Constable right in the way that I want to be comfortable. I like to push myself out of the comfort zone But you know like I don't like I Don't like arguing. I don't like this agreement's Confentations yeah, like an easy kind of you know a happy low stress Sass those those way better than anything It was Under the right Money drives everyone but for me It's not like I wouldn't do Whatever it takes to make a million kind of thing. I would yeah Would go the right route and it's saying like Chris like if someone turn around to me said Sass if you get with Honey run bug you will be second at the Olympia in 2025 No doubt like you if someone said you you believe Chris now go with honey And if you stay with Chris you'll get eight or you get lost or whatever And not that I'm just saying hypothetically yeah, I would stay with Chris because of the relationship And the way we are with each other and just the comfort stress free Easy Work relationship friendship. I've got with him. I wouldn't let that go for You know a bigger check so trophies not at this point in my life Right yeah, so that means more to me so speaking of that and this is something that we talk about a lot at my house How do you define success That's it for you um success is I think is being able to obviously the financial freedom so you're not worried about paying the mortgage or the bills Financially being able to Be comfortable Whatever that means to the person Well the other part that is Working a job that you enjoy the passion about and Having family that You unconditionally love and would do anything for and I know that sounds simple. I don't think everyone is able to have that And I know some people don't have a choice But Being able to go to sleep With minimal stress and just fall asleep happy knowing that There's nobody after you there's just no did the tax money not after you You know you're not worrying about it You know it's I think it's hard to explain for me, but that that success. It's like happiness Pulse relationships Pluffy enough wealth to be comfortable But not stress because I know some people I have a few Millionaire friends here that just I just don't think I'll ever be happy because It's just one thing one problem after another right and they were all the money in the world But they're constantly chasing something to make them happy Right, they're not they're not happy so yeah, I hope I came across no it's perfect because that that's kind of what I In hindsight like when I when I first started Life I'll say I thought I was driven by money. I really did I was like I just want the money just pay me the money And Over time I really learned that that wasn't what drove me I Found a lot more happiness like you said in doing the things I was passionate about and then the passion ended up turning those things into pay days Where You know if I took my skill set to a different arena I would make more money and I would be less happy You know And I and I feel like when I when I look at you and kind of the growth that you've had It just in this conversation even It's cool to see and I and I try to drive it home, you know when you're meeting fans and stuff When you see the you know you'll have someone walk up to you to ask somewhere and they've got Their wife with them their kid or whatever it is And they're thinking in their head like man what what must it be like to be him to have? You know the celebrity and in our sport. I mean you are wildly popular everyone knows you But I don't think that most people realize that the best part of your life Yeah, that family has Oh, yeah, and they don't they don't necessarily see that you know what I mean like for me I I've been going to the shows. I mean this is my 19th Arnold this year Yeah, and it's funny as I'm getting ready to go to Fibot Amaro It's hard to leave home now than it used to be Absolutely and it's also more exciting to go home when it's over because it's cool as it is and I love going I love the fans I love hanging out with the boys and doing everything But you're like man that the thing that really makes me tick is actually at home I want to send and You know what's funny is over the last couple years as my coach your business grew people would say on say you know Why do you charge more or why do you do why do you do this online and why don't you travel More or and I know this coaches that might make twice as much as I'm making But those coaches are also here there and everywhere all the time all they're constantly on their laptop all their phone literally 24 seven And I'm thinking okay, so what's the point what's the point in You know having all that money when all you do is You're glued to the screen you don't have time to be there for your partner on your kids I'd like help is the I am I could I be busy. Yeah, yeah, of course I could but I can't sit down after seven p.m. Once the kids are going to bed enjoy a couple hours of Leanne I'll be having to You know answer emails I will have to but I can have the choice right now to not I can do my work load earlier If I want to go and take the kids for lunch tomorrow afternoon I can move around my work But if I was busy at making twice as much even 50% more than I'm making now I won't be able to have that Liberty What's the point what's the point when you can't make those little memories along the way Traveling kills makers are hey being away from the kids they're constantly changing But I also remember that this is what this is for them as well and it's also for my own happiness It's my dream To be able to compete trying it to Olympia so it's a good trade off when a power is happened to do that all the time just saffron making morning 24 seven 365 days a year That number didn't make sense to me right now I'm just wouldn't be happy and then I think that would have a knock on effect down the line somewhere in some way It'll have side effects you um, you know one thing I have to request as a friend and a fan I'm gonna need you to erase the If I can get to the Olympia statement Because I told you a long time ago when you were gonna go prize like what you'll do that next year And it's the same with the Olympia and that's as as a fan that's watched the sport is longer longer than you There's certain people that just have it and you've always had it genetically But I think now with the maturity you went through the growth the time away It's really time for you to just understand that that's gonna happen and you know It's it's not a matter of of if it's when and You know anybody who goes to a show that you're in knows that you could win it And you know I really do think that if you can Alter that those words inside of yourself yeah for a little while Yeah The seconds are gonna become first because It's predetermined you know what I mean like when when Jay was coming up and took a last at the Olympia I don't think he ever wondered if he could do it Yeah You know and that's what's separated him and you have all the pieces you've got the perfect Foundation I'll say between the family the things that drive you all that it's like You know for for me I look forward to you're remembering this conversation because The Olympia qualification is gonna come and You're not gonna be attending the Olympia to attend You're gonna be going to the Olympia to do damage and I think that you need to know that because I speak for all the fans We want to see you there. I mean Scott will tell you I don't know how much you watch our show But after last year's Olympia I was really disappointed because A lot of the guys didn't put the effort into the show and I'm just a fan now I go the same as everyone else. I'm sitting there just watching and I was like That was a disappointment because the Classic guys put on a show and the bodybuilders it seemed like a afterthought and this is the biggest show there is Now fast forward to the Arnold a lot of guys put on a show, but Scott shared your posing and I was like I Could have muted it and felt it. Oh, yeah, yeah, and that's the part that as a fan you want to have where Like I'm having my own experience Watching you perform And I think that that's something that you have that you got to just climb in on because it is so much fun as a fan because you're like you're watching and you're like I've never seen this before even if you've done it because there's an energy that's coming out of the other routine There's there's an emotion of in a physical thing That we all gather and Scott and I can watch the exact same routine But it applies differently to us you know what I mean so you've got that thing that that's why the fans were going nuts Because when you came out and you were feeling it They started to have their own feeling towards it and kind of give it back to you know what I mean? Absolutely it's funny you're saying these things Up until the show I just did I was of that if I get to the old pier and I know I said it today, but It was I think it was from a few days before the try I was driving and I just felt like Someone gave me some ecstasy You know like I was listening to music thinking about my posing and I just got this pause inside And I was like and I like to stay quite mellow going into a shot. I want to get excited. I don't buy into the hype I was getting excited and then the same thing kept happening every time I listened to my posing music And in the hotel after pre-judging Was practicing a bit of my routine that was just ready to explode and I've never ever felt that before So something definitely happened in those six years Me just realizing What I am able capable of doing on stage. What I can do with my physique Before I don't think I have that belief like yeah Deep down and didn't I New I was good. I know how new I had to have the potential But I don't think I 100% believe that this that's the difference this time I 100% believe it I'm my confidence has been sky high And I was ready to have to put on a show which I've never felt and I think on stage it just felt natural And I remember some syncholine up to me after pre-judging and he just gave me a big hug and he just said Shit, you just put on a fucking show like Well, he was he was buzzing I you could tell he was passionate about what he just saw. Yeah, well I agree with you. I think something has changed and I know I can't I know I'll be at the Olympia And I'm gonna well put on on a show bringing that kind of The polish and the posing and the attitude that I've grown up watching from my favorite pros and I can't wait to kind of just bring that to the Olympia's name And it's gonna be cool because you know when when we watch these There's no one like you And that's exciting as a fan like when you look like when we when we talk on the show where like Well, you got Samson you got Andrew and you go through the list of guys that are similar And then you come down and you're into the Derek and Nick walkers and then there's you And There's no one like you Not just physically, but but how you approach it you know like you said I mean you essentially Especially nowadays and this is where I feel bad for kids these days They get on the internet and there's a rule book now Yeah, it's like well you got to train this way or you got to train that way and you got to eat this and you got you know all these rules And I hope that you get out enough and get on more podcasts and stuff because You were handed all the rules and you looked at them and you crumpled them up and you toss them over your shoulder They're like I'm not gonna do that I'm gonna do it my way and I think that more people will Get something from you because I think there's a lot of people trapped in the box that they are going to be in That when they see a guy like you who chuck the rules And had massive success not just with the result but also with enjoying the process. I'm hoping that a lot of young guys and girls coming up go I just want to do this for me, you know it's like when you started building your physique You didn't say like what did the judges want? What do I want? And I feel like that shows in your physique and it's why you have such a I mean, it's just a different look like when you came out on stage for the Detroit I was like Okay, that is wildly different and I mean, I'm a huge fan of a lot of those guys But you stood out in how you carried yourself and what your physique looked like and it was exciting knowing that like I said I mean, I've never been a rule follower so seeing you chuck it and just roll with it I hope more guys hear your message and understand that They will get further doing what they enjoy than following my rules scots rules whoever's rules Well, that's true I think the other aspect is the fact that you can have it all, you know That's that's the real thing I hope some people walk away with because that's a conversation I have with people You know not all the time, but it is a conversation that you do have with people where they're like you know Me or the family, you know body body building or that you know a big thing you said too was that you know Part of it is doing this for them part of it is like you're doing this as a business for your family But you also said an important thing part of it is for you, you know because you really do have to be happy first if you were to You know if you didn't follow your dreams then then what are we and it doesn't mean that it has to take away And I don't care whether you're sassan her body or you're just trying to prepare for the Michigan State You know Championships it's like if this is your calling in your heart that's what you want to do You really can have all both you can have it all you know you really can't and be 100% plugged in for both too, you know and you're Pershing that I agree it almost It all has to come together for it to be Like I used to watch bodybuilders who would lock themselves away from their kids You know because they're hungry. They don't want to get snap-based like okay, why do you When you sit down with your kids and have a good time like that will take you mind off being hungry tired Yeah, you know, it's why just to go lock yourself away like fight camp, you know Where where where where where bodybuilders were not you know when not fires and and once I realized I can do that The family didn't become a burden it became a boost a strain together to get me through the day two my next meal To the next training session and then throwing them will stand that's my little wind for the day you get there That's that's like happy hormones and like dusty said Once you throw out these it restrictive Or at least say okay, I don't need to follow this but I kind of want to yeah You tend to do something that you enjoy with your training When the enjoyment comes in everything else just falls into place like it's like one big It's one big circle every type that I say to my guys they want to do that first prep Okay, so is everything okay? Are you all right? You know you're in a good place with your job or with your relationship? You know if you've got issues at home Maybe you're in a contest preface in the best for you and you know Everything has to almost be in line for it to be a well-oiled machine with a good outcome and then like doesky said I Definitely one of the biggest Reads one of the things I wanted to get out of this combat was to be able to give back to bodybuilding because it's given me so much It's given me almost everything I've got today So I would like to Give back to the younger generation and just say you know you can do this But you can stay relatively healthy You can pick your shows you can pick the way you train and You can do it whilst having fun and You don't need to throw your air all your eggs in one basket. You don't need to throw your career away to do it Yeah, I would love to be able to say there's more ways to train and eat There's you know you can always make something work when it comes to bodybuilding because it's a lifestyle And I would love to be able to give more information out and my own experiences so I've said no I've said no to podcasts in the past What my attitude now is say yes to every podcast So I've got a Chris total in Milo tomorrow night and I think Dennis James just the end of me I think he wants me on his Podcast so the old sauce would have been like oh no I'm traveling I'm prepping I'm just I'm gonna fit in whenever I come Nice to get voice out that well you're welcome here on this show or any other show anytime you want to come on man We're all over the world. Thank you. I'd love to come on after Feebo and talk about the win Hell yeah, so I love that idea well I want to before we before we end because I know we're so on an hour your time I just want to point out one thing that I think is huge that you're you're doing number one The more you chase your goals personal just for you The bigger your reach gets the more people you can impact and the other thing and I stole this for Evan sent upon a year ago because I thought it was so important you know when he was having kids All parents tell their kids you can be anything you want to be But I think the problem is That's only heard if you're being what you want to be so when your kids grow up and you say hey You can do whatever you want and they look at your life though go My dad did what he wanted yeah, and it all worked out But it doesn't come out as well when your kid looks and goes well you hate your life Yeah, you know, so I think that you're you're on a path to impact way more than you probably ever realized you would obviously within your own house and I've always been a huge fan and friend and I'm super stoked to see this week and I love knowing that I've just got one more reason to brag on Scott that I'm going to Google Watch you on stage and we really appreciate you enjoying that. It's man. Thank you, honestly I kind of like I said I can't thank Dusty enough for Giving me a massive leg up on this career from from the start and I can't thank you guys enough for the kind words and I was the support and having me on having me on the show as well so I hope I will do well this this weekend in spade and I'll have some success full topics to talk about next time Hell yeah, it's good man. So yeah, thank you guys for having me. It's been a pleasure even now five days out It's been it's been more fun than ever to be honest. Who's wanted to get your closure to that next meal buddy? Right Guys you push those heels together late, which is always a good thing Guys if you're not following sass we've got his Instagram and everything down below so of course remember that remember I am mutant You can go to I am mutant and use codes a big run or Dusty to get some savings and of course We've got to remember to like share subscribe comment and ring the bell ring the bell and sass. I still have that poster so if you need any good new exercises You know man That jump poster so anytime you need let me know bro. I'll hook you I do the same thing though. I have it hanging here in my office to remind me you know where I came from and where it started I love your story man. I appreciate having you here and I'm sure the audience is gonna enjoy this guys. Of course comment tell us what you think what did you think about the sass interview? That's right and obviously add all your questions below so we can see them for the next episode because we will have him on After he grabs at a limpia qualification this week In the other episode of his just bodybuilding no wait. Is that how it goes? No he says and remember that's what he says and Rememmondusty it's just bodybuilding

The interesting thing, if you compare that middle set of bars, which is six-month post-training with the, they call them elite bodybuilders, the seven years of training, their fibers are the same size. Well, how is it that the elite bodybuilders have arms that are, let's see, it's three and a half inches bigger. If their fibers are the same size. Well, they probably have more fibers. What are we going to start with? We want to start with the, the, the big thing that you had been doing a bunch of research on today, with the, the question about genetic growing muscle that question. Yeah, and we can, I, I didn't have to do a bunch of research. We just found things I knew about. He did a lot more than me. Okay, let me put it that way. All right. This is from Brian. Brian is, uh, one of our longtime listeners. I wanted to give him a shout out as well because he always, uh, comments with thoughtful things. And, uh, which, of course, comments themselves, they help to boost the show up. So I appreciate his support with all of our shows. And I appreciate that he's getting something out of him. But he said, question for the next episode over the years. I have seen multiple examples of absolute freaks who have that one muscle group that just does not respond like the rest. Marcus is, Marcus rules triceps, Ronnie's calves and so on. These guys are the best of the best. But when it comes to growing muscles, uh, and, and with the best genetics in the world, um, what is it about those weak muscle groups that just will not grow despite being exposed to all the training and supplements in the world? Thanks. Okay, so this, this is a, like, potentially, there's so many different tangents we've gone with this. I think with those two examples, I have, I've got the first thing to come to come to come to mind, you don't have to go in any deep muscle biology in order to pieces together. I have the suspicion that maybe Ronnie's calves were better. And when he, when he was, when he was younger, you may be able to find pictures. And they started to grade. Yeah, they weren't always like weak. You had, he had good calves, but I think he may have torn them like I torn mine. I've torn my right one. There's no, there's no meal gastroch. There. It's gone. Yeah, because I, I, I tore it. I never felt any pain. It just felt this little bit of a snap and over time, it just, to generate it. Um, people sometimes get bad shots and they get nerve damage because of that. Um, I know of multiple examples of that. Um, if you look at Dennis Wolves calves, they sort of went downhill over time. And he's in a couple people. Yeah. So it may not be simply what, what his, kind of asking about is like, why didn't his calves grow? Um, so well. It's that maybe they weren't that bad. And when you saw them at the end when everything else was fully maxed out, the calves had a different history of being torn or being maybe maybe did some shots in there and had an issue with it. The same thing makes you wonder about Marcus. You never know. Um, his biceps are still huge. Yeah. Like you can, like he's very active in the German body, living scene. He does like videos all the time. It's funny. Because there's a lot of guys, you know, you know, this phenomenon, well, when someone wants to make themselves sort of a little more famous and get more views, they, they, they invoke the name of someone who's much more famous than they are. So they should have to patch that out whatever. So people take pots and I sit Marcus all the time. There's all these back and forth videos there in the German language, but, like, you know, Mark is saying something and this person saying something back and forth. They want to know, it's just, just ridiculous. But his biceps, at least to you, train. He trips train with, um, who was color sent see? I think say say his last name. The German guys originally from Poland, who was, was he, he was fourth in Olympia. Okay. And in the classic physique, he's, he's the best German body builder out there now. It, um, potentially placing wise recently, he's, we may be in better than Roman trip, because he's just placed better than Roman has in his category. We'll see how Roman does Roman's, Romans coming your way. I think, yeah, yeah, I don't think it all. Okay. I was going to say I didn't think it was a secret or anything. Oh. Yeah. No, no, no, he's made that known now. Yeah, I can't go to the camp. I only can go to the camp. Bro. Uh, from there. Bummer. Oh, that's right. Cause you're not, you know, we're near Tampa. No. I'm, I'm through hours away. And I got my RV, but I, so he's, we got limited. She's got a cone on her head now and he's looking good. So we'll see if he changes that. We'll see what his placeings look like after this after a couple of years. Yeah, yeah, finally. Because he was putting down, see does lots of his videos. And we're getting off topic now, but does lots of his videos and there's lots of an English as well. I've noticed. He didn't follow his, you know, a day, but in the off season. And he stays so lean. I feel like he's a guy that needs to be able to force food like that, you know. That he had to. Yeah, there wasn't going to get any bigger unless he just, unless you went all in like that. And he did. That's cool. And it's paid off because he's looking incredible right now. Yeah. Yeah. So anyway. Yeah. Hi, so back to Marcus. If, if and I'm not saying that he did or he didn't, people accusing me of this naturally, if he was putting something in his biceps, that's a much easier muscle to shoot than the triceps for size. So, and if you run into an issue, if you're doing this on your own, that's what you're doing SEOs or doing local injections and you develop scar tissue, like you could people should end up there people shoot through biceps as much as anywhere else. They just like the quick stuff there. Yeah. It's very easy. Yeah. The triceps is a little bit harder. Yeah. Try to put it, try and check in your triceps. And because of the difficulty in doing that, you may actually cause muscle damage. So, so that's one possibility, like you've got the injection and muscle tear history, potential of the person. So also what how a muscle grows over time is a function of its loading history. That's kind of a fancy fancy term for how much does it get used during the day. Has it been trained? Has it not been trained? You, for instance, you're an example of just the opposite of this phenomenon in a certain way because your calves are a friggin world class and they out pace. Yeah, like no, your calves are ridiculous. And then you've trained them. They're super ridiculous. You trained them. We talked about this multiple times. You sent me that, I'll never forget you sent me the video of just looking at your feet while you're doing side ladders and you're up on your tipito. Yeah. So you've got this loading history, whatever it is about the way that you learned a locomotive is a kid. Yeah. Probably some of your biomechanics, maybe there's something in your environment, like maybe like me to see up over tables, something like that when your kid who knows. But that's the way, you know, you don't have much of a heel strike. And you're, so you've got tons of loading on your planar flexures. You had a loading history from the get go early on of just loading the out of those calves. Yeah. And there's some potential I haven't, you know, people talk about when new muscle fibers would form or when muscles grow. But there are periods early on in development. We know this especially from the animals that you've got satellite cells that are particularly involved with potential to create more muscle fibers. So you may have been doing that as a kid or early on in a way that led to large, but you don't actually see how big your muscle fibers are. Whereas what you could kind of use it as an estimate of how many you have. You may have normal sized muscle fibers. But more of not terribly large, but a lot of them. So so there's all that in the loading, loading history that can play a role. So what the calves undergo, this is what people train to have differently, compared to what the bi-seps undergo can be completely different. Bi-seps are, you know, you're not doing much with them. You know, if you're not, if you're just training and you're doing nothing else, but like writing and maybe working at a keyboard, you've not got much going on there. Yeah. So what you do, if you look, look at the loading history of when you're training during the day and let's say you do, um, I'll say you do 10 sets for a muscle group in a week. Something like that. And each of those sets is a minute. You've spent 10 minutes, um, once a week. So add up the hours, seven times, 24 versus 10 minutes. So like one sixth of an hour versus 148 hours or whatever that is. No 180 hours in a, in a, in a, how many hours in a week, 24 times seven, a lot. A lot. So it's a very love with the moral. Yeah, someone's going to post it for us. Yeah. So the very small number amount of time is actually spent doing the training. And you see these, this phenomenon in the other animal models of hypertrophy, the compensatory approach, which you talked about, they take out one muscle group of the calves. They got the solution and watch the gastrochrome. They'll do that. One thing you tend to see in, for instance, an older people is that the leg muscles will after fee more so than the upper body. Over time compared to younger people. So that's what you see in older people is they don't walk around as much. They don't not as active. Their step counts go down as they age. But so do you've got this loading that's going on the legs that progressively changes and you lose size there. Whereas in the upper body, people do, you know, even see the way people like the lean against things with their upper body, like literally if they've got a bad back, what have you and most of Americans have to age to 40 have a bad back. So you've got this little change in the upper body loading history. You have a much less loss of muscle mass. Whereas you stop walking around so much and squat squatting. You get bad knees. What do you don't do? You don't squat down. Yeah. You bend at your back, you know, and you're not, you're not doing anything. It's closer. What a stiff leg of deadlift would be or deep squat would be. You lose size there. So there's all sorts of accommodation that can happen. People just don't move around in the same way. They don't get the same loading history that's going on all the time outside. You look at, um, look at tennis players. And, you know, you think a tennis player playing being, you know, like the way to big up build a big arm, but tennis players have a bigger arm in their, in their dominant arm than the other ones considerably. Yeah, it's fairly well. Oh, I've seen that. I remember seeing Roger Federer and just seeing like a huge discrepancy. In fact, I'll look post production to see if I can find a picture that would demonstrate it. But his right arm, or I think it was his right arm, I believe he was very handed was muscular. And the other one almost looked at her feet by comparison. Mm-hmm. So there's those things. And then there's also like what does someone who knows. We look back at the, at Marcus Rul, he's so decraising heavy pressing. Maybe he, he constantly used to go really wide on his presses. Okay. Drivers team, like he's got in the, um, uh, what's the name of the video? And in his, the main video that he had, uh, I'm liking on the name of it. But he's doing like Smith machine presses. And his hands, we can't see me because there's no room in the camp, but hands are literally, like almost as wide as they can be. His range of motion is very small. Yeah. Five plates on the Smith machine. That's fine. But it's crazy. Yeah. So he may have had, really, and so that doesn't favor a good range of motion for the tri steps at all. So if he just wants his presses that way, it's not getting tri steps that low in their way. Some of that may have been because maybe he had chronic tri steps 10 the nightess. Mm-hmm. Some people tend to get 10 the nightess in the knees or in their, in their elbows, either in hamstrings, the patella tendons and tendons on both sides of the joint. So that's going to limit direct training there. So there's, there's, there's a lot of things that are involved that could be possibly involved as to whether one muscle grows or another. The thing that's interesting, um, two is this whole story with satellite cells. So we've talked about this. Satellite cells are just outside the, the muscle cell membrane. And they're waiting. And we, this seems to be important. I should have, I should have got one of these figures. But if you look at what, what happens in those who grow really well to gain size, really, really well versus those who are non-responders or just moderate terms of their response, there's kind of three things that happen at least in terms of satellite cells. One, the people who respond really well in the muscles that they've tested have more satellite cells available in the first place, just one with them. They also have it increased the number of those satellite cells. And they're in the density of those satellite cells. So they, the satellite cells proliferate themselves. And they're ready because when a muscle cell gets bigger, it needs more nuclei. It's so, so big it has to have multiple nuclei. You can't just grow and grow and grow. So some mixed evidence here, some of it depends on the muscles that are being sampled. Which satellite cells are important. And the growth factors that turn on the satellite cell activity are released in larger amounts in those people. So the interesting, you know, we can start comparing muscles. You generally see the muscles, like the muscles of the diaphragm versus which is a different, has a totally different loading history. Diaphragms always going. Yeah. It's like your heart constantly there. Yeah. Those, the satellite cell activity there is different than what you'll see for instance in a calf muscle or a quad muscle. Sure. Or biceps or absiceps. So, and also, if you look at muscles that, here's the satellite cells are so fucking cool. Look at muscles, at least in animals that have like a lot of a type 2 fiber type. And you take those satellite cells out and you put them in culture and you can get them to turn into regular muscle cells. Those will tend to become type 2 muscle cells. Okay. They just, so they're, they're not completely undifferentiated. They don't have, they can't just turn into whatever. So they, they pick up on the local environment or what that, that person's genetic reclivity fiber type wise happens to be. They've done studies with, this is really, this is one of my favorites. I mentioned this before, I think. They take in endurance athletes, they compare them with control people were sedentary. And they take a little muscle sample and they pull out that and they take these satellite cells. So the satellite cells are just sitting there. They're not muscle, they don't contract, they produce no force, they do no exercise. They're just hanging out like, it's okay. See what's up? Like tell me what I'm going to do, what's next and I'll be ready to, for whatever adaptation is impending. They take out those satellite cells from the trained individuals and develop those, let those, the, the, the, provost those in a development with growth factors into functional muscle cells. It's in a cultured dish. So it's not connected anything. And then they look at the insulin sensitivity, which we know is improved by exercise in those satellite cells that have never exercised. And they have better insulin sensitivity compared to the control people who didn't ever, who weren't exercising. So the satellite cells are aware of, they're picking up on the metabolic demands, they're picking up on the, the nature of the, loading history of the, of the muscles that are there. And those, and they're, and they also are aware of what fiber type they come from. So you've got this story of, if someone's, for instance, born with lots of type 1 fibers in a muscle for whatever reason that may be as one that tends to be a little bit stagnant to growth. It's a, it doesn't want to grow very well. It's a weak muscle group. You're going to have satellite cells in there that want to become type 1, 1st, those don't grow very well. So you get 20% growth in the type 1s and you get 30% growth in the type 2s. If you've got a muscle that's mainly type 1s, you're stuck with those in terms of the growth to get there and the, and the satellite cells aren't going to help you out too much. So there's that. And let's start pulling up some of these figures because now it's, there's also a cool shit here. Let's see which one is the best one to start with. Let's see if what's, which of the first one, which one did you have there, that came over to you first. The first one is the one that says 2006 and then the one, yeah. That one. That's all that one. Yeah, why not? Why not? Alright, so there's a lot, very little data here, but it's somewhat, it's somewhat mixed, it's kind of interesting. So in that first, first, the bar graphs up top, that's from the study, they're, they're sort of from Italian researchers published in 2006. And what you see in the left is the difference in the cross-sectional area of the vast slatter Alice in particular and the quads. So the open bars are the control individuals, untrained and the bodybuilders, at least two years of training this case, are the grayish bars. So their muscles are bigger. If you look to the right, you see the distribution of the mice and heavy genes. So that's basically how much of what fibers did they have. In this study, if you look at that first set of bars there, which says MHC1, if people can see that, it's in the upper right, you've got a scenario here where the bodybuilders tend to have more type two fibers, which would be a good thing because type of fibers tend to grow more. So that's interesting, that's fine, that's one finding. If you look below at another study, in this case, you can just look at that right-most column, MHC1, mice and heavy-chain 1. The numbers, the means, there, are four competitive bodybuilders and then just recreationally resistance-strained and endurance-roar and then the control. What you see there, if you compare the competitive bodybuilders with any of the other groups really, but resistance-strained, you see the strongest difference here. There's a tendency there, you can look at all the values. The tendency there for this case, in this study, with these people, when they sampled the triceps, and not the quad, not the vassaslideralis, but the triceps, brachii, so the arm muscle, the competitive bodybuilders tend to have more type one, mice. So the muscle, potentially, you can compare these two studies that you sample, is going to give you a different picture in terms of what's happening. And of course, you're quads. There's a guy, I think his name is like, because Bulldog's something like this, I found him somewhere on maybe Facebook or put him in YouTube, I follow him Instagram now. He lives in Texas and I think he was born without legs, so he does everything with his upper body. I posted a kind of a motivational video from him the other day, couple three weeks he'll maybe. He walks around on his arms, he doesn't have any legs. He's like, I've got the state record by far for revenge, but he can be conventional 500 pounds. No kidding. But he has an leg, so he puts him in a very low weight class. But he's frigging jacked. He has a national level, if not a pro level upper body from a bodybuilder. He's a beast. And he's part of potentially part of why he's so big is because he's been using his upper body like that. So much. Yeah. Yeah. But he started that way as a kid. If I remember the story correct, maybe it was very young or maybe it's just born without these legs. I think maybe it had to be an appetating one, it's very young. I can't recall exactly. So imagine if you had to do the same relative effort level and work with your arms that you do with your legs during the day. Like you had your legs just were paralyzed. I've seen guys who've had spinal cord injuries who have done everything they can to become able to body to same scenario. So there was a guy who used to go to the separate center who had a, he drove, he had a special set up on his, he was a lower body spinal cord injury. And he drove it as special set up so he could just use his hands for the break and accelerator and the steer. But he had a chair too that he used. But he was one of those guys that he could, he could like, you could get out, buck him self in on the chair and get on a rope and pull himself all the way up. He had a, he had a Jeep. He would park his Jeep and his wheelchair was in the back of the Jeep. Yeah. And he had a frame or a rack and there it may have been custom made and he would literally get out climb around like a monkey swinging on trees climb around and just hand hand his way over there. And with one hand, he reached in a grab as wheelchair put on the ground, flip it open and then swing himself down land to the thing. Holy shit. He was, it was like his gymnast. It was amazing. Upper body was just jacked. It's huge. One big muscle. Do the same thing at Judas. Yeah. So there's multiple ways to get to hypertrophy. And this is one kind of more direct answer to this question because there's so many cool little bits and pieces to this story is that if you have someone and we don't know about Ronnie or there's those other possibilities of injections or what have you that may explain the differences in, by Ronnie's calves, maybe got worse and by such a better for Marcus and the Strikes-Eps. But if you ask someone who's genetically gifted, who does really well, like whatever they do, they tend to grow much better than the average person right off the right out of the shoot. They're really, so they don't have to do the trial and error necessarily that someone with more mediocre genetics has to do. So it may be that they would have to train their calves or a week muscle group in a different way. And they never get around to that. And we're going to see those people who are prominently like really amazing bodybuilders with one sort of missing body part more often. Thank you for tuning into another podcast here at Think Big Bodybuilding Media. If we've provided value to you today, then please consider contributing to our show. You can help support the show through Patreon. Every $5 helps to pay for the software and the hardware and everything else that goes into making a podcast. You can also contribute by using our code at True Nutrition. True Nutrition has been our title sponsor for several years now. I'm super grateful for them. And I've believed in true nutrition supplements long before they sponsored our programming. You could use our code. Thank you for health supplements and performance supplements. Feel free to hit me up if you have any questions. And if you're in Canada, check out SupplementsSource.ca. They have free shipping over $99. Huge discounts on overstock, short dated, in label change products. They have all your normal supplements too. Thank you guys for listening to the commercial. I hope you're having a great day in that your bodybuilding is going well. Let's get back to the show. Because they're so good. And then it's even more glaring when that is there. Oh yeah. Because they're so good. Because they're so good. And they don't do the trial and error that most of us have to do in order to figure out what works. And it can be all over the place. So we've got the muscle that's involved the satellite cell density that's there, which can vary what's happening over time with those, depending on the loading history of the person, how they locomote like you, walk around on your kippy toes all the time. For instance, there's so many things that can go into this. So here's, let's see what the next thing I have here. So this is an interesting one. There's this other part of the story. To pull up the next thing I sent you, I think it has Medugal written at the top. Got it. Let's take a look at that. So this is a cool, kind of a cool study. This is an old school one. This is the one study, instead of the topic. But this is the one study that sort of suggested that circle class, which I purchased, was potentially something that was going on. So that's another aspect of this. I'm not going to be focused on that for now. But in this case, they had body builders with about seven years of training on average, prepared with, actually, they had untrained people and they trained them for about five six months. And afterwards, I think that's the, let me show that's the after. Yeah. So after they compared after six months of training with the seven years of training in their body builders, and their body builders still had about 27% larger arms after training. Although they got decent growth with that six months of training. These guys, judging by their weight, they're like 98 kilos. So when they got, they were, they were off season. If they dieted down, they would probably be middle weights. So their arms are like 17 inches, something like that. So that's, that's not bad. For a middle weight, 17 inch arm, it's a big dude. Yeah, that's a good exercise. That's for middle weight. That's a good exercise. So that's all that data is on the bottom there. If people can see that. So top is what happened with fibers. And this is an old old studies. They're still calling them fast to it, since low to it's type one type two. And you see the first two sets of bars. There are the pre and post training for their kind of control group. They're cutely trained group. They spend a half a year training. And they got decent growth. Fiber area went up in both fiber types. The interesting thing, if you compare that middle set of bars, which is six month post training with the, they call them elite bodybuilders, the seven years of training. Their fibers are the same size. Well, how is it that the elite bodybuilders have arms that are, let's see, it's three and a half inches bigger. If their fibers are the same size. Well, they probably have more fibers. Oh, okay. Yeah. So there's this hyperplastic potential that's there to get more fibers. Hyperchity, this is why you, people hear me say muscle growth probably more often than hyperchity because hypertrophy technically means an increase in the size of cell. In this case, muscle cells. Hyperplasia means an increase in the number of the cells. So when you measure muscle growth, when you measure fiber size, you're measuring hyperplasia. When you want to talk about how big a muscle's gotten and you use an MRI or a CAT scan or ultrasound to measure the muscle thickness or the cross-section area, the volume, then you're measuring muscle growth, which didn't measure hypertrophy. People just call it hypertrophy. They just use that term in generically, but it's actually technically not correct. No big deal. But it's important because it sounds good. It sounds real sciencey. It's not a sciencey. It's not a sciencey. It's not a sciencey. You'll see what's the thing is, in this case, if you just looked at, like, here's an interpretation of that study if they didn't make any circumference measurements. They didn't measure them whole muscle size. It just made circumference measurements. They noted in there that they did skin folds and the skin folds were about the same. It wasn't like the bodybuilders were really fat. Something like that, if you wouldn't expect. But if you look at the post-6 months of training and you could pair that seven years of training, that suggests there was a lot of difference. There's no hype. The extra six and a half years of training did not create any muscle hypertrophy. That's what those data say in terms of fiber. But you look at those, the ones got, like, one guy's got how many inches bigger arms. It's obvious who the bodybuilders are and who the people are who are just half of your into training. So it does make a difference. If you're looking at hypertrophy, you get much larger relative increases in fiber size, and you're going to know typically see in muscle size actually. You might get a 30% increase in fiber size, but the muscle only maybe gets 10% bigger. It's because not all of the muscle is just fiber. There's other things that are in there. So that's the other potential is it could be for whatever reason that someone is just lacking in satellite cell density in a particular muscle. The satellite cells would one thing they're involved with as a pinch before is increasing the number of nuclei that are available in the muscles that are getting muscle cells that are getting larger, but they also are potentially fusing become brand new muscle fibers. So the former is hypertrophy, the latter would be hyperplasia. So if someone has limited in terms of satellite cells in a particular muscle, and they vary across, if you look at like, compare muscles with the eye, we got muscles more than just biceps triceps, quads, hamstrings. We have muscles of the eye, which are super duper fast. They've got, there's some actually other contractal proteins in some of those muscles. The muscles of the massider, your jaw, super duper strong. There's a different mice in there. You've got different satellite cells. Yeah, it's pretty cool. Yeah, right. So there's potential variability in a given individual in the number of satellite cells that they have, the dreaded love of density, which is important, the relative amount of growth that you can get from those different fiber types, and the extent to which potentially I haven't even seen this study, maybe someone's maybe some evidence, but if you've got satellite cells that are associated with type two fibers versus type one fibers, which of those is best, which are those populations of satellite cells is more likely to be able to contribute to hyperplasia, which seems like it could be important. That's this, this, this, the glugos, they only just looked at, suggests that hyperplasia is important. So I think I've got one more figure here to go through. That's kind of interesting. Yeah, this one's funny. This one's cool too. Little bit off topic, but it's the same kind of thing, which was always. Yeah, that's a lot, I think you're just the third one, I think. This one's fiber number. Actually, yeah, go. One before that, this is female bodies, this is always at the very top. Two sets of bars. Let's see how one first. I can resend it if you need. There's so small, I can't quite tell. Was this it? There we go. That's it, that's it. Cool. So this is a cool one. This one, they compared male and female bodybuilders. Okay. And they've got the mean fiber area here is bigger and men than women. So what you see in the most of studies with men and women is they get the same relative growth percentage growth in fibers or whole muscle area. Okay. Women start off with smaller fibers. They grow to the same relative percentage. No kidding. So they end up with smaller muscles. Yeah. So their fibers are just small and you can see that there. It's pretty interesting. So I'm intended to have more high point fibers too. Yeah, no kidding. So I mean, I just, I get rid of this for just a second. You know, I guess there's almost like you just think like women don't grow as much muscle as men, but percentage wise. They do is what you're telling me right now. Yeah. That's fascinating. Yeah. The cool, my favorite little anecdote is that you see upper body strength. There's substantial difference between men and women. 40-50%. Man. Bench, you can see it. Although some of the best one bench pressures an hour getting pretty freaking close. And nothing against this, but there's probably anage and use that's involved there too. So you wonder to what extent, obviously, you know, we're pulling these amazing athletes out of the woodwork more so now than maybe 40 years ago. But what extent does ant do antrogens be quite the playing field in terms of the fiber growth that can happen in the end versus women? But women didn't have more of their muscle in the lower body relatively speaking than men. So if you look at body weight, even though you got more body fat relatively speaking, you look at muscle mass distribution and do relative strength measurements on men versus women. So with a leg press, many women are really, really close. Okay. That's why if you want to test yourself, train lower body with a woman in the shape. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. She's going to be able to hang with you weight wise pretty good relatively speaking. Plus they've got better ability. They've got better endurance a lot of times. More type ones helps with that, a better ability recover. It's a whole their story there. That would be a fun time. That would be a fun time. It's a fun point. Oh, yeah. We can cover that. We need to that. Let me be fun. We had a strength testing lab back when I was a University of Western Cali. And there was a guy who was kind of the star of the baseball team actually, he's the best player. And we needed to have a one-to-have a gender comparison. So he was going to be the guy who did the leg press. We had one of those really old school, universal leg presses with the selecterized stack and a little, itty-bitty foot plates. Yeah. He's got, yeah. Exactly. He's really good about it. If your foot slips off, you're screwed. And so he was two hundred pounds, at least. And she was a hundred pounds. And she was completely untrained. And he'd been lifting for years. And we did this strength test, one rep max. And then he lifted the whole stack or pretty close to it. And she got half the stack. And then we realized that to body weight, she actually beat him. No one's getting stronger than he was. Yeah. He was by a little bit, like, 5-10%. Yeah. And he was like, he was embarrassed. Like, literally, you see this. So we have that interesting phenomenon. So now let's pull up this, this is from the same study. This next, this last slide. OK. It's just pretty cool. For last combination of figures. All right. So this is an interesting one. So what they can do with the kind of made an estimate of the number of fibers an individual has. And they have fiber area, which they've measured. And they also measured cross-exual area of the biceps. So let's start. We'll just start at the bottom. This one's kind of easiest one to look at. The more fibers you have, the bigger the biceps area was. So that kind of makes sense. If we think back to that other study where you had six months of training and seven years of training, having the same fiber sizes. But the seven-year trainees, the bodybuilders, had much bigger muscles. That means they had to have more fibers. If their fibers were the same size, but they've got bigger muscles, they just have to have more fibers. This speaks to hyperplasia. This is another piece of evidence here where the number of fibers you have correlates with the size of the biceps here. And they also found, interestingly enough, that's what we look at the top here, that there was an inverse correlation between the fiber area and the fiber number. So the smaller your fibers are, the more you tended to have. It almost would suggest that there's a possibility that as you grow and get better, that the fibers might be gets smaller. So that's kind of an interesting thing. The bigger the area, the smaller the number of fibers. So here's, and I didn't pull anything up from this at kind of around at a time, but you can move that there, that figure. So the most impressive study showing muscle growth was a study done with quail, with the weighted wing studies. We talked about this one here. I think this is in our 100 to 102 series. It's been in every seventh episode, the quail. The study comes up. Yeah, it comes up. I'm glad you're remembering. So the cool thing there is, this is when they did progressive overload with these quails. So they had to sort of remove some of the quails from the study so they could measure the fiber size and the muscle weight as they went through about a month's worth of this stretch overload model. So they hang a weight off the wing of the quail and then they measure the interior at the Christmas door size muscle. It's kind of like hanging a dumbbell off of your arm and looking to see what happens to your trap. Yeah. And initially compared to the control animals, the fibers got bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger. Right. As the muscle got bigger and bigger and bigger. And then in the latter half, and they were doing like two days on one day off and added weight progressively over time and they produced more muscle increase in muscles size in this case wet weight than in any other study to date as far as I know. They're like over 200% increase in the muscle size. So this would be like taking someone, you know, and putting on 100 pounds of muscle in a month. You can't do that with a whole body. But in this model it worked because just that one muscle that's being stressed. So the muscle kept on growing in the second two, second two weeks, the latter half. But the fibers got smaller. So fibers were getting smaller and the muscle was continuing to grow. No kidding. Because they were adding more fibers as they went over. So there's so many factors that lead that are, that are, can potentially involved with how a muscle grows. Do the fibers just tend to get bigger? Do the satellite cells? Are they equipped better for fusing themselves and leading the hyperplasia? The loading history of the individual? Is that involved? The response that is to anagents in terms of this. We've got males and females who just tend to have females have smaller muscle fibers. So if we add anagents to that picture for someone perhaps who's, who's a male already, and you know you go super physiological with the anagents. They go from you know, you go anadle to two grams a week. What happens there? I don't know what happens in terms of like a hyperplasia versus hypertrophy. I haven't seen that, you've seen that ease out. So it's a very, very cool, cool question to ask is the why that is. And the thing that people don't necessarily do is try to figure out what training is going to work best when what you've been doing isn't working for that week muscle group. And there's one other piece to this puzzle. And this is, I've mentioned this before too, but it's kind of an important thing is that the whole point of the weight training is to figure out how to make the adaptation into an increase in muscle size. That's like, it's sort of like, you're going to have a, you're going to have a group large group of people over to your house for a party. And you've got two choices as to how you can accommodate that. You can go rent some chairs and you know, get a little temporary structure to, you know, provide some shade from the sun or case it rains. That's a cheap, quick, done, done easy. That's no problem. Which is equivalent to just changing the mitochondrial content or increasing the enzymes that are involved with metabolism. So when you come back and do that training stimulus again, you try to train again. You got better endurance instead of getting 10 reps, you get 13. Because you're more equipped now energetically. That's a really down and dirty way to adapt. The larger overhaul is to go and like, well, I'm going to build an entirely new structure with plumbing and HVAC and electrical and everything else that has like, I'm going to build, you know, with with with church pews in it and permeates that are permanent permanent permanent structure. Exactly. That's what we're trying to do with hypertrophy. Yeah. So some people who do there's not non-responders to muscle growth, they just don't grow from a given, given stimulus that they get. We saw that in the in the studies where they did the five versus three or two times a week in the same person. And some people didn't grow from one of those training programs, but they grew from the other one. So, because there was likely some adaptations. I didn't see that they tested this. I don't think it's been there. But if you looked at the individuals who got no growth, let's say out of the two or three times a week training, they got the muscle didn't increase in size. I bet their performance went up because they're doing progressive overload in the study. Okay. So they got better. They could do more reps if you took them back to their initial weight they used at the beginning of the study. They probably could have doubled their reps. So there was an adaptation there. Enzymes, fatigue resistance, more capillaries, buffering the past. You also have to think changed, but the muscle didn't get bigger. So you could, you could even be someone who's in the gym and if you're just looking at your weight and your reps. And it's like, you know, I keep on getting stronger. I'm just keeping it simple. This is fine. Great way to do it. I've gotten better on all my exercises and I've grown all my muscles except for the week one. Why isn't that one growing? I don't get it. It's getting better. It may be adapting an entirely different manner. You may have to do something completely different to get it to grow, get the cells to hypertrophy so that you get muscle growth because it's really well equipped for that reason. And it could be, like for calves, is it is a potential. So really calves is a really paradoxical one potentially because you have the situation of chronic overuse, like the compensatory hypertrophy. Your calves are grown because they've always done that. And that was an adaptation that your muscles took on, like this makes sense, you know. And maybe that if you, if you didn't have this locomotor pattern and you started as an adult, it wouldn't work as well. I'd bring it there as an interact. Yeah, between what happened during growth and development, when everything's sort of figuring out, okay, what does our environment need? That's an epigenetic phenomenon. Muscle cells will, there will be changes in the methylation of the histones in the nuclei of those muscle cells and probably in the satellite cells where they, if they've been trained previously, the adaptations that training occur more rapidly when you retrain after a detraining period. Yeah. Oh, cells remember. So there's something that has learned along the course of our lifetime in terms of the loading history of muscle is exposed to that is going to give it a better proclivity to adapts to that particular stress down the road. So that person who gets better in all those exercises and their calf raises everything goes up and then we'll get any growth. It's like that muscle may not be equipped for any of those reasons to adapt into that particular training regime. So you're going to have to find another hack to produce hypertrophy as opposed to just getting enzymatic changes. Makes me wonder when you say the muscle could be trained early, maybe during development, to grow. I wonder about that baby Hercules, or you see these kids, like some little six-year-old rushing kid that has abs and delts and everything else. I wonder what their development will be like when they're 20. Are they doing something now that's going to permanently alter the way that their muscle will grow for the good possibly? He looks normal. I saw something years ago now, when he was early 20s. Oh, he's that baby Hercules guy grew up. Yeah. I think people said people suspect that his parents might have been given some extra good good. I'd imagine so unfortunately. But we know that previous exposure to steroids does seem to produce a muscle memory effect where the reggrowth is so he might be a hyper-responder if you were to get juice. I have a feeling now. If you're six years old and you may be loved at the time, but if you were kind of forced to be on that regimen, the first thing I'd want to do when I'm 20 years old is probably not do what my parents made me do to begin with. I mean, I feel like I did that. Yeah. Because he probably missed out on so much. So many things. Because like six hours of training or something like that a day. Yeah. I was something just kind of crazy. But that's what the Eastern block athletes have. Eastern block. The Russians knew this, the Soviet Union. Some of the commonest countries. They knew you take people who got the kids who've got the genetic potential. And then you maximize that by getting them as early as you can in life and putting them into their training regime. Yeah. Well listen, how do you say, friend? Thank you. What? I was going to, I was going to choose subjects. Yeah, just like just just my friend who she was bench pressing from the age of six, a matter of which was in college. Yeah. She had pretty much no friend for everything, but she could bench 275. Yeah. Okay. Totally natural. Totally natural. She go on the gym into the, into the Rex Center at University, Georgia. And she'd light down and warm up with one 35 for us. Had 10 guys to be rushing over and think of you. It's a no with the bar. And then she'd bang out 10. And then yeah, she'd, you know, she'd, she'd trained with two and a quarter. What was her like chest and shoulder development like? It looked. It was good. She was a swimmer and she played tennis. She's been a being a state champion in both, I believe. So like, her parents were both educators, both childhood development experts, who stayed in her cadets of Ph.D. And they knew, you know, there's the importance of early childhood exposure to things in terms of eventual adult development. So they, she's just started, she likes, she loved playing sports. I mean, she wasn't fortunate to do any of this. But so they had heard, like she said, would she got to do some upper body strength? He was an exercise physiologist, like she got to do some upper body strength. And so she just started bench pressing. They go for their morning runs or whatever as general conditioning. Yeah. And they come home and he had a bench press in the garage and she just, I don't know what she did, like, you know, a few sets of bench press. But from the age of six. Yeah. And so she developed that neurological pattern. It was just a groove. She used to, um, they, uh, they, like, had her play a game. It was called math blaster. It was like on, like, one of the old, you know, old computers. It was, it was kind of like a space invader's game, but she had to like do the math really fast ahead. Yeah. Yeah. And, um, and she's, she has, she has, she has the PhD in molecular biology. Okay. I don't think she was podcast, but, but she scored a perfect score on her SAT. I think when she was 13. Oh, yeah. Maybe she's, yeah. Yeah. So she's being a state based. It's a builder for that. Yeah. They drilled her for that. But she's not like, people with that level of intelligence or with those types of test scores, you're like, like, okay, like, you're, your, your heads working at a totally different level than mine. I think I did. And I didn't need to do what's going on up there. You're like, you're like, five. Thank you. How did you, you're, uh, your household genius there? Yes. You came by to drop off the checker cup. Thank you, dear. So, so yeah, there's something to say. So, um, yeah, you may, you know, you don't, I guess I wouldn't give up. I think you miss your, your window of chat, your childhood window of opportunity in terms of muscle growth. But you got to think outside the box. You know, and that's what a lot of times people with great physique have never had to do. So they don't do it. Um, talk to a, you know, friends who've got, you've probably seen this, some of the best athletes who've gotten, they've gotten all the way, they've gotten just kind of doing kind of whatever. And then they, so they haven't developed the problem solving skills. Absolutely. You and I have. So that's why those, those muscle groups may stay weekly, just keep doing what they've been doing and they keep getting what they've been getting, which is not improving in the week muscle groups. Yeah. Because they haven't got an awful strategy. Remember, uh, it was rumored that Arnold got calf implants, which I'm, I'm guessing probably didn't happen. Uh, but maybe, you know, maybe he figured something out because I mean, there was a point he didn't have calves, so then he came back and he had calves. So, I mean, yeah. I always said it was that he, he cut off all this pants. Yeah. Yeah. So he had to look at his calves all the time, you know. I don't know. I like what I've never seen is, and you think someone would have done this as a before and after on his calves. You would think where, yeah, somebody did somewhere. Somebody has somewhere. Okay. If you're in the Facebook group, the think big Facebook group and you want to do one for us, we'd love to see the before and after of Arnold without good calves and Arnold with good calves. Yeah. Yep. I would like to see that too. All right. Well, let's get, yeah, we've got a few of them here. Let me see what we can dig up here. And when I know we had one in the live feed, anybody who also wants to drop anything in the live feed, feel free. All right. So here's one cleaning cramps. He says, is this nervous system over stimulation and what are ways to fix it? So we talked to all about Clemby at a raw by the way. We got a lot of really good feedback on that episode. Thank you, everybody, who had commented on that one. And I think that wasn't really good up a so just got it was it was very, it was great science and you broke it down in a real simple way that was easy to understand. I think a lot of people connected. Yeah, I got that impression too. We were digging it. So Clem can reduce to produce a moderate at least, hypocholemia, so low potassium levels and the blood. Crams are generally thought to be a function of what's going on and the nerves that innovate the muscles. So it's some sort of a electrolyte dehydration issue that causes. Eases depolarization in those nerves. So they tell the muscles to contract more easily. And that's what you have when you have a cramp. Yeah. Or something like a cramp. So touring is the best antichramp, self-mino of its awesome for that. It works really well. A little bit of potassium is not a bad idea necessarily for getting like this is why people say have some bananas because bananas are hypochasium tends to work. I tend to suggest people just take a multi-mineral, which has potassium in it. You don't want to like take in a bunch of potassium. The 99-milligram potassium pills that you see, you know, that's where you go to typically is dose-at, is because that's like, it's like one person, one pills, like one percent of your RDA or RDI because you can take too much potassium. You can cause too high or too low. You can cause heart aridnias and that's not something anyone wants. So there's tonic water. It's a quinine and tonic water. So possibility. Yeah. And just drinking more fluid. So that gives your kidneys a better opportunity to make sure that things are that your electronegile levels where they should be. So, but you can dehydrate yourself. You can dilute the potassium even more. Yeah. You gotta keep the electrolytes and everything up if you're drinking more water. I had a couple things on it to mention. One, I just told the guys on Bloodswet and Gear the other week, we were talking about quinine and I bring in an experiment where I kept tonic water next to my bed. I would get calf cramps all the time when I was when I was prepping and I was on higher doses of clen and I'd wake up and I'd drink like some salt water real quick to fix it. And then I wanted to see what would the quinine work. So, you know, with the tonic water work, instantly Scott, like I would get the cramps that can't the cramps, really, he couldn't even stand up, you know, because it's just so bad and took a drink and literally within seconds it relaxed. So it's crazy how fast that worked. There is, there's a study, so people have used pickle juice too. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And there's a particular study where pickle juice literally had that exact same immediate effect. And it was before there was any noticeable change in the sodium levels in the blood. There's, there's some sensing mechanism. There's some osmosensing mechanism that is probably reacting to fluid intake. Some of it's maybe unconscious, some of it maybe it's totally conscious. That's it work here. So you can literally just have the pickle juice in your mouth. And you'll get the effect on reducing the cramps. I think it was like to be a cramping muscle. So yeah, they've done like there's mouth-rinsing experiments, the showroom that just like just rinsing your mouth with a sweet carbohydrate solution, you can have urgigent effects. You don't take in the carbs, you don't swallow it. Like you don't get any carbs, there's no fuel that's coming from what you put in your mouth, because you spit it back out. But it'll have that impact. And I've done this a couple times to people when I've been at shows backstage or someone like when after they come off and they haven't had water for a while. Because it happened to me all the time. I always always know it's so you go and you like, what up you did everything you'd drive yourself out right, you know, your, your pH is dribbling and then like you haven't peed for like four hours. It's like you finally get done all done, you can drink all you want. So you got your bottle of water that you brought along, so you'd have something to drink when you're done and you drink literally a halfway through, oh fuck I got a pee right now. It'll the urgency to urinate happens instantly. And I remember it was like saying someone's like hey where's my water? I said just pay attention to this. I'm not trying to put it in your mind. But do you got a pee right now? No. Like okay. And then they take your drinks like I got a pee like how did you know it's going to happen? I'm like because it happens me all the time. So it's pretty it's pretty cool. And that's a really like how did this, how did this particular, it's like a reflex essentially. It has developed. It's a that's that's that's is I think that fits the definition of a reflexive physiological phenomenon because it's just getting into your mouth like you're drinking it. It's like the quinine hasn't had an effect. It's not a had the chance to reach your neurons or anything. It's just there. So someone could be really psychological. Because you know you're taking something but happens with the pickle juice happens. People just drink water in their sense of urinate. So something about how we, how our nervous system senses our hydration state and our electrolyte state is very cutely sensed with this reflex phenomenon. Phenomenal there's probably many of them. Yeah. So I think it's the colibus and you're really exporting your work except for that one pickle juice study. And the research that with the water and peeing thing I think that's a great tool in context prep when you're trying to get dry. You know what I mean? Like you can I mean I think that's one of the reasons like you can drink a little bit of water and it'll stimulate you to keep peeing too. Yeah yeah yeah yeah I haven't really done that so well because I've been poisoning other things but yeah you're just got to be careful unless you're measuring it like you can end up drinking as much as you're peeing and you don't you don't you don't you don't you're aggressive. Sure. Yeah I've used that but like keeping water in and then gradually reducing it but making sure that you keep it in and then you know check on people like hey well check you know check back in an hour with new pictures and let me know how many times you pee between now and then and we can kind of yeah the other thing I was going to mention to you was just a random thought I was having and it's interesting I think Andrew Barry was having kind of a similar thought that so I was looking into some stuff about touring and and I saw that low touring there's a relationship to low touring and heart issues and and I know that Glenn depletes touring from what I understand so I know that if I keep touring in the system I know that that's going to help to keep me from cramping on Glenn and I know that Glenn can also be bad for your heart. I wonder is there a relationship to the fact that it depletes touring if low touring and your heart causes heart issues? Yeah I my my suspicion is related to free radical production. Okay. touring is a really really good antioxidant actually there's another study showing that in rats it prevented nanderloam toxicity in the gonads touring do these rats. For indeed yeah so yeah it's got free radical quenching abilities and your heart is the penultimate producer of penultimate oxygen user but that also means produce lots of superoxide radicals so every time when you're in the process of aerobic respiration oxidative phosphorylation it's a great term so you use an oxygen and it's going through the electron transport chain and basically this scenario where you're just kind of like letting water flow through a dam so you're harnessing the potential energy that water to turn the turbines and produce energy you you let these electrons flow through you create a proton gradient and what happens at the end there is the water and hydrogens combined with electrons or sorry the oxygen and hydrogens combined with electrons and you get water but every once in a while one two three four five percent of the time instead of having water produced you get an electron loaded onto an oxygen molecule and you produce a superoxide radical and that's a free radical so that free radical is it's like a radical like person's radical it goes and then it will cause other it will damage other molecules this is what free radical damage is all about so the heart because it's producing so much energy it's constantly going it's producing lots of free radicals so it's so it's an antioxidant status is very important so if clan clan is going to substantial reduce the antioxidant status plus it's turning on it's increasing the oxidative phosphorylation it's because it's it's going to act it's a some path of a medic it's activating your heart your heart rig goes up since your blood pressure to so it's producing more free radicals and then reducing your ability to cleanse those just just by virtue of reducing touring status in the heart cells so we've got then you've got um you've got the damage of free radicals there it is there thought yeah no orange great orange great very very worthwhile so I've worked it into my daily my daily plan now I used to just use it you know like during times I was using clan or times that I thought I might cramp stuff like that but now it's part of my regular go to I can see your coffee in the morning where you've got the 30 grams of the collagen and then you had like five grams of creatinine and then post creatinine has tastes like anything and then you have your grams of chlorine and you just have like a mountain of white powder a little bit of coffee because it's like coffee mountain off your powder sludge mix of some NCT in there you know that's the new thing or in several years ago people started doing that the bulletproof coffee and yeah we go all right so here's another real science E1 for you Scott talking back about so this once again relates to the last episode we were talking about p450 so does using that supplement that inhibits p450 increase stress on the liver is there any differences difference at all by the sounds of its effectiveness when all gear users even with injectables should be using this product to increase the active life of the drug administered assuming he or she is not using any other chemicals that need that metabolism factor so I think you know one thing I think would be really interesting and we kind of mentioned this I asked you before the show to talk about would be like what what is the p450 pathway yeah so the liver has kind of simplified to sort of two phases that are involved with detoxifying xenobiotics so foreign chemicals which are drugs or toxins or things that aren't producing your body the comfort outside and the the first is involves these p450 enzymes these cytochrome enzymes and what those do is they and there's utils and utils of the very technical term thousands and thousands of these and they some of them are used very generically and some of them are used or more specific but these is modify and involves electrons actually modifies the xenobiotic the foreign drug let's in this case so that it can then be conjugated with something and get gotten rid of so it's sort of like imagine someone comes in your house and you got people coming through your house your business all the time who you may have to have show forward out so the first thing you need to do is make sure that they that you're that you're the people who are monitoring your door to get rid of these unwanted these safe unsavory characters can take them out easily so that's what the p450 enzymes does to modify them so then they can be conjugated by your your body guards and then once the conjugated they can be lost in the stool or or excreted from the body okay so so the first phase one is the p450 enzymes and phase two is conjugation of some sort and we're very ways that that can happen we call bucronidation or sulfation there's actually differences there that are involved with antibiotics steroid metabolism so the problem is that that first that phase one produces free radicals and those are toxic so that's why most almost all of your liver supplements things like alpha lipolic acid or acetylyl cysteine or the the herbs in live 52 those are all all have free radical quenching ability to do that they you know they turn on the enzymes that are involved with free radical quenching or they are antioxidants in of themselves so here's the thing um yeah as far as penultimate damage to the liver it's probably going to depend on the person and the drug because oftentimes there's multiple pathways it's a very it's a it's a I I actually have a I can send this to you why not I think I have it here available oh cool thank yeah let me pull it up right now take it's on PowerPoint so I was putting together a presentation we talked about this on um Tomoxford novo dex yes yeah I'm interested to hear about that yeah I got to put together my my medical waiver type of thing see let me just send this this is just an example one that I just knew I had for actual someone to check this you just got all right it's looking crazy oh yeah it's an if he huh oh yeah let me know if I love these things let me know if you want me to zoom in on any part of particular oh yeah that bottom circle we can just move that out if you can zoom in on the kind of the upper left let's bring it back down you can see Tomoxford in this at the top there yeah all right so those all everywhere it says zip there those are all people for 50 enzymes and what you can see is that like a prince if you look at Tomoxford in the center there and it goes to four hydroxy tooxford those are all p450 enzymes that can do that okay they can they can make that conversion and there's one for instance like the zip 3a4 that is involved with Tomoxford to four hydroxy tooxford yes and then four hydroxy tooxford to endoxford it's also involved with Tomoxford and death's methyl tooxford so it's involved with multiple pathways it so it but so if you inhibit that one for instance someone is going to have to rely on other enzymes okay for metabolism you may completely block or just slow metabolism or you may end up end up changing the pathway so if you cut off one water is rolling the water is flowing down a amount inside it's got multiple streamlets that it's in you block one more water is going to float down the other ones so depending on what you do in which drug this person or which drugs the person might have in their system and the isophorms of these particular side of cromes these p450 enzymes for instance the one that I think it's a zip 3a4 let me check I can double check and see what I wrote in my yeah no zip it's a zip 2d6 okay oh you can see that one right there next to Moxafin right to the right of it's zip 2d6 okay that one's involved with all those same places as zip 3a4 is pretty much okay so that's a that's one there are there are at least a hundred polymorphisms of that enzyme that have you know identified that means there are a hundred different versions of that enzyme that someone could have so depending on the relative activity of that enzyme and the other in the zip 3a4 and the person and the drug you could change the metabolites that are produced and change the drug and end up producing different fluxes in free radicals and end up causing more or less damage to the liver depending on what pathways of detoxification are followed in terms of creating something that can then be lost by the system so in this case like all these metabolites here like a doxafin that this is just gonna jump ahead but to Moxafin doesn't really have binding affinity to the estrogen receptor this endoxafin it does no kidding so it turns into something else that binds yeah and doxafin is the main one I think it's 4 hydroxytomoxafin both of those have but a doxafin's considered the main actual serm if you can slide that thing up a little bit you see you see that in doxafin is an error that goes kind of the bottom left and it arches all the way down to nor and doxafin okay yeah nor and doxafin and here's the question that I'm I'm still kind of digging into because I haven't found found this it may not even be out there yet but nor and doxafin if you compare its anti-eromotace activity it's on par with that of letters all really yeah now so that's the thing but I just just wanted to see where that went so that's the cell target cells yeah and to oxidize this is really cool I can I can I can get what these things like I can read this you know what I mean yeah so that's the interesting thing is like so you're someone the effective is some to moxafin is going to be a function of how much and doxafin you produce yeah and the impact on estrogen production is going to be a function of how much nor and doxafin is produced which is an anti it's demethylated there if you're multiple pathways for that and so then you can see there's all sorts of other there's multiple pathways to produce to moxafin to endoxafin it can go through the four hydroxafin pathway on the right or can go through the left and end up there as well okay so that's an example there's actually another study I've got this all on this thing that I plan on putting out as soon as I get done with it in actually pre and both postmenopausal women and they found that basically about in about one third of those individuals estrogen levels went up when they're taking to moxafin really but in the others it's just stayed low so so some things going on there they may produce maybe producing no you would expect if you block estrogen just thinking of very basic negative feedback loop way if you block estrogen then the body would produce more of it the senses that it's not there that's what that's why people use serums and men you block the negative feedback of estrogen and you get more testosterone estrogen levels are representative testosterone levels so in those women for instance who had elevated levels of estrogen after they took to moxafin which doesn't happen in two thirds of the in this particular study it may be that's a normal response to blocking the estrogen and they just for whatever reason don't produce much of the nor endoxifen which is the AI so they're elevated estrogen levels they had elevated estrogen levels because they didn't have nor endoxifen being produced substantially but that's kind of unknown so but the interesting is that the the result in estrogen levels were substantially different in that one third of individuals so that's very cool that's fascinating to me and it's fascinating I mean just to bring that back up here for a second it's fascinating to me so it's not that simple number one that you take into moxafin and you know that's just what you picture in your head I'm looking at this whole web so to moxafin turns into all these different boxes it's so far from what I think like I think like oh I take a null of decks and you know it breaks down to my stomach it absorbs into my bloodstream and then it goes to the estrogen cells you know or estrogen sites yeah so much more complex in that and it makes me think too that if we're messing around with this like hey I want to take the supplement that's going to interfere with the P450 pathway like that's going to interfere with a whole lot of stuff I'd have to think then what about yeah what about internal stuff like things that we're like things that like that we're already exogenously producing you know that that would be that that would be like a whole cascade of things were we're altering then major wrench in the works potentially tymotsman is really a pro drug according to this because it's an endoxifen it's it's like a pro hormone that the with a pro hormone doesn't have any and implicit activity so it's acting as a pro drug you need to have conversion to get the effects and not every not all women who have breast cancer get tymots and effect from tymotsman it doesn't work universally for everyone and you can imagine we can look at all 10 times better involved yeah so I'm going to bring that question back up now that we've done this education he says of does using that supplement that inhibits the P450 increased stress on the liver is there any difference at all by sounds of its evidence then all gear users even with injectables should be using this product to increase the active life of the drug being administered so yeah so that would depend like I said on the drug and when how you change the metabolism and that drug and what that means in terms of how those metabolites how many steps those metabolites have to go through before they can be big and lead the body yeah so you may you may have you know levels of those metabolites along much longer turns on your free radical status and the liver too you know so I have to go and look and probably could find this but different there's I don't know to what extent a given molecule or type molecule must be removed in that phase too so let's say I'm going to just this is purely like kind of an armchair a wild ass guessing here but let's say that for a particular metabolite it could either be sulfated or um gluconorated so we've got a glucose or it's like a glucose moody to it or a sulfate moody and then it can be taken out so that's those are the the body yards or your you know your the people escort the unwanted then saver characters at the house so you got two options there and the safe for whatever reason someone um one of those is is not very available but that particular metabolite is means to be means to be escorted out through that mechanism and so this individual when they take one of these hasparrate in an orange and they create more of that particular metabolite which they lack the ability to rid the body of and then that sends that metabolite off into other pathways that produce more free radicals because of the continued activity yeah of the P450s so you you actually increase P450 activity increase free radical stress because you've changed the metabolism that would normally be maybe even for that individual a very simple not terribly stressful situation because now those metabolites they don't get out they they they they they're not they're not rid from the body because of that person's genetic abilities to do so with the new metabolites that are formed so it's like you know another you can you could take a you could take a one wheel or you could take a bicycle or you could walk or you could run there's various ways to get from point A to point V and if someone's used to being a bicyclist you say okay now get on this unicycle some people like like I can ride a unicycle chest as fast as a bicycle I wrote a unicycle for minutes growing up some people like I just fall flat on my face I can't ride a unicycle unicycle is not going to work for me yeah metabolically speaking you're changing the mode of transport for removal those metabolites from those those xenobiotic toxins or with the body is basically considering toxins those drugs from the body in a way that could be more toxic potentially but it's situationally can't say all are none so that's hard it's hard to know and I've looked and looked you know it's not like in this case with the tomoxin because that's the nice thing about a drug that's been effective against cancer you can't lots of money to study that yeah it's funny people say you know like oh that and I get why they say this is like you know we don't want to cure cancer because it's too much of a money maker but you can imagine the number of research studies that went into figuring out that those metabolic pathways like that's a lot of my imagination crazy crazy right yeah so you don't we don't see that when it comes to like you know hey how can we increase the half life of Diana Ball so body glitters can get bigger you know you don't see that stuff on anabolic steroids because they don't have the medical applications that anti cancer drugs do yeah we don't know those p450 enzymes we don't know those pathways in and out we don't have specific inhibitors that that lead us into pathways that are less toxic but also prolong the active state the active life half life of a given drug in a way that would make that drug more effective that makes so much sense that we do have the ability like we like if if we were interested in figuring it out oh they like they can find it so much more you know yeah I'm planning me yeah yeah yeah I'm going to make me present at a planet me head you know that's what we're doing you know keep the body glitters safe first and foremost yeah but yeah absolutely all right I got one here in the live feed from Tim he says hey Jens can you talk about the difference between muscle fatigue and failure so um here's the thing people will start using the term fatigue in different ways in the last decade or so okay so muscle fatigue just for the classical definition is it's the it's the relative amount of force typically force that can be produced that it give in state and just you can leave it at that actually so if during the course of an exercise about your force your maximal force production is reduced by 50% then that's your that's your marker of fatigue some people talk about fatigue is your relative kind of recovery state like you still have a crude fatigue so you train on a Monday and like you know if you've measured try to go on to do the same exercises on Tuesday then you know you're not going to be a strong because you got muscle damage involved so fatigue in the classic sense the way I've typically thought of that is a function of inability acute inability of the muscle to produce force or power um for to maintain a power output due to metabolic fatigue by products and or some function of the nervous system or the or the brain so your psychologically fatigue just hurts too much and won't I can't do it there's various low-sciath fatigue everything from the black box in here the central governor your brain to the motor neurons um there in your motor cortex that produce the movement patterns to the neuromuscular junction test potential fatigue in the depolarization ways that happen in skeletal muscle cells when they produce force then there's the acidity potentially you know that changes the activity of glycolidic enzymes and changes the shape of myosin so you maybe don't get as much power or work produced when you break down ATP so you lose efficiency there's everything from the beginning of the end is potential side of fatigue and that happens the more higher work output the higher the greater for fatigue is going to be yeah now the next question is what causes muscle failure and that's you know momentary muscular failure is typically thought of as like what that's the inability to maintain a force output or maintain a rate of work production so moving a hundred pound weight back and forth eventually you reach a point where in capable of doing that and that would be muscular failure um you could break that down into concentric failure or eccentric failure so ability to do another constant repetition that's why you can do force negatives a lot of those actually if you really want to kill yourself you can do 10 reps and then your partner's left the way up you can get three or four more because you got greater efficiency or economy with eccentric and more force produced with eccentric interactions and concentric so put the limiter on failure for most people I think is is up here in terms of motivation and having more push yeah yeah there's yeah I mean there's the studies that we talked about these you know where they take you know okay go to estimate your reps and reserve you know people say two or three and they're they're off by ten you still you know more yeah so would you say then that so muscle failure are you are you saying that we is is that failure that's not failure or the muscle then is is what you're telling me yeah I mean in a research study failures also I gotta add this just a kind of complete the idea here is that it's maintaining that work output if you're doing talking about doing reps of resistance exercise with with appropriate form and on a particular tempo so in a controlled situation so like you could keep going and then just make a widow maker out of it like you want me to do any extensions okay how many how many days can I go I'll just I'll just sit in the machine I won't stop I didn't fail right I said that's not over until I get off the machine right so but yeah but you fail you have your way 30 seconds between your reps and that's just pure willpower yeah so there's that but um yeah so failure I think you answer your question a lot of it is potentially yeah in the in the in the brain in motivation and all the inhibitory feedback that comes back to us that it hurts and then you know all the hidden psychology as to why we just don't want to push ourselves to the point where we're potentially injuring ourselves somebody commented on you to you and one of the one of my Facebook posts it was dusty it was a dusty head said something in the show about training to failure and somebody's comment was that we nobody trains to failure that training to failure would be that the muscle tour or was near tearing what do you think about them? Well that's probably it's not true because most people aren't doing sets with maximum loads I mean why a muscle tears when it does like you have all sorts of muscle tears when people are doing just minimal things odd things like really lightweight or like guys like they they step down a um they take a wrong step walking down a ramp we're getting out of the truck or whatever and they tear a muscle and that could potentially be because of it's an odd situation and they have a really unusual activation pattern and it creates forced inequalities across a muscle that that leads to a tear one place and once once it starts to tear it's kind of like the the yellow pages the strongman trick you know you're the L pages the tear and the trick there is is getting it started once it starts to go it just goes okay so you can have a muscle tear with a very light load I'm going somewhere this yeah but most of the time if you're doing a set of 115 what's that? you always do you said I'm going somewhere else yeah yeah yeah everyone's not losing my way but but if you get to the end of your set and you're using 75% of your one-rett max it's not like the forces are higher than the muscle to possibly tolerate because you just you just did those you did 12 reps before you the 13th one when you're incapable of of producing another up. Now a muscle tear would also be one potential cause of muscle failure it would fail right like the muscle literally like that's a complete mechanical failure of the muscle like there's no muscle left that's connected from 10 to 10 to 10 to because you tore the thing yes but um yeah there spends on the exercise too here's the thing um that's just make this a science you may be in a way that other people because you know dusty I think I saw dusty's answer to it you know it's a good thing dusty side okay yeah no dusty like when he addressed it though on the podcast oh yeah yeah I love going to failure training you know 10 years ago or 20 years ago he couldn't do what he can now can do yeah you learn you learn what you're capable of you know by training with people who train harder than you or just having those crazy training sessions you just your bar incrementally goes up and up and up and up and what seems like here at some point like how that was just kind of the so-so training session 15 or 20 years would be like holy fuck I killed it baby like that was amazing yeah relative to where you been um but the here's the interesting thing there's a way that they've assessed like motorgain and activation so if if someone were at true muscular failure what you would expect from a neurological standpoint is that they are fully maximally activating all of the potential motor units that are available so motor units and nerve and the fibers that are connected to it so they're like there's nothing left it's like if you end your set and you're not like really at 100% activation then you got more reps and reserve you got more reps in the tank so they can test this you know um various ways but it's basically the same same um methodology they can activate the nerve or they can activate the muscle with electrical stimulation so usually like any extensions these is one dependent ascribe it's how it's usually done so put someone on the extension machine and you you turn up you put pads on their quad to activate a good volume of the quad and you figure out how much juice you got to give in order to turn on and get like 25% of the muscle force that they can produce voluntarily right so you let's say they can produce a thousand Newton's Newton's of force on a amount of dynamometer and you get up to 250 on that so that's activating let's say roughly 25% of the muscle mass so then you say okay now I want you the test subjects to push as hard as you can and then you turn on the juice and if they're already activating those motor units then when you turn on the juice you'll get no more force production already activated them yeah well what happens what happens with people this is the problem with the phenomenon here's the problem with the cup problems with this with this way of doing things is it and I we did this and when I back when I was in grad school and you see this in in the some of the studies you turn on the juice and the electrical current or the depolarization wave it goes both ways it goes down to the fibers and would turn them on if they're not already on it also goes back up it goes back up in the direction of where the signals coming down from your brain so it's like two waves gliding and what do you get they cancel one another new kidding so the force goes down so I'm pushing the thousand Newton's Newton's and you know whatever Newton meters and the force actually will go down because you're colliding with the with the the the waves coming down from the from the brain with these they're called anti-dromeic waves so the cancel another your force goes down so it's like oh okay well what does that mean like I was activating 120% of the motor units that were available there yeah it means that the method can't be used to test this but they still do it it's been done I don't have much it's done I haven't read a study for a long while I did but for years and years they would do this motor unit activation etc etc and they do studies for instance with there's a study with older folks where they'd use this same testing methodology it means we're like 65 real people who are totally untrained and they their claim was that they were able to fully activate the quads okay it's like well we know you take an untrained person regardless of how old they are they get strong really fast yeah you take an untrained older person first time to bring them in and they get they get strong even faster in many cases really urban studies with 90 year old yeah who like there's a kind of a classic study by Maria Friadaroni from like the like 1989 or 92 or something and they took they increase their strength about 200% no kid oh yeah just doing the extensions so as you're untrained like you have you're untrained and and you've also got sort of disused you just you don't know what you're doing you haven't you haven't done anything of you know relatively high exertion for a long time so it really can't tell but we know we know that if you know if you take most people and they're still making neurological gains then there's something going on it's not just whether the motor units are on or off there's something about the coordination there the rate coding it's called of the firing rate and the way in which the motor units are activated in order to produce more force that is contributing to their force production so if you're continually making gains or something that's missing there you're not you've not got full activation but I think most most people who train really really I mean if most people don't I I go into most gyms I don't it's I hardly ever see anyone who I look at and I say I came here the last time I did I was like I want to train with that person because people you don't see people like going after it not very it depends on the gym you go to of course yeah but it's very rare because it's a really kind of bizarre and not it's only socially acceptable in in gyms and certain gyms especially in train that are you know people just don't don't they don't want to do it because it friggin hurts and you have to be a little little bit you have to have some loose screws bounce around up top to do that so in the best way yeah so but failure here's the thing derelitarizes failure is failure for that person you know that's when when their system failed and under those circumstances you can you can invalidate the psychometric of reps and reserve as a stable reliable psychometric measurement because what you can do then is bring someone you know bring it bring in the researchers or bring in the big guys or bring in a trainer or you know having trained with someone like where they want like holy shit this can be great for a guy who trains the woman who's got better endurance recovery like he's not gonna let her beater yeah yeah yes oh you know so so he's he's got to hold on to his balls during this he's got a train hard he's got to hang in there or you've got a researcher who says okay give me three more or you've got Tom bats who says give me five more like we talked about before yeah so so that relative failure you know it's it's a function of the circumstances and the individual and what have you and it's a function of what you're willingness is in most in most cases in many cases what you're willing to actually put yourself through but you can but you can but you can standardize that in the research setting when you talk about muscle failure by using a tempo and forcing the individuals to maintain the tempo this is why I kind of do this in in in forditude training apart which is the whole there's kind of story but compare a widow maker with the pumps that pumps that's the reps are continuous I only I limit intentionally how much you can just dig in and do those grinding reps because that can create then that becomes a with an advanced person a test of their willpower and they'll heat up the recovery reserves doing that because they can get five ten more reps just by like like when you first time you did a muscle round with that with that standing squat and you just were like like you were taking a break between every rep because you just wanted to go as heavy as you could you know and I did the same thing first of my did Leo Costa's titan training with with his muscle rounds I did it was crazy what I what I did you know but I just wanted the train is hard it's possible so in a research setting you can say this is a tempo you need to maintain if they're unable to maintain the tempo then they reach failure so that's the work output of the power output or the the constraints of the of the workload that that is part of the training protocol so you can reach failure where it's sometimes it's kind of like this depending on the muscle and it's fatigue you train a small muscle that for whatever reason you don't have great fatigue resistance in yeah like this is one arm biceps and like you go and you go and you're like trying to stay on the temple and it's like okay I couldn't take the tempo so the sets over yeah that's failure yeah that's how it's defined in that situation she's like it was just one biceps that was nothing like it was it didn't like it didn't I'm not like on the ground thinking oh my god like I've gone to hell and back right it was just a little biceps girl which you reached failure yeah you do that now take a squat widow maker where it's like no I want to see like like ultimate failure you know or whatever it is where there is not a rep left in your system no matter if you got a gun to your head or your family's life is extinct or you're gonna win a million dollars or whatever it might be there's no way you're getting another rep it's just the absolute impossibility well that's failure on the to those circumstances where you allow rest in between the reps and what have you so yeah control for those things in training studies because otherwise you this disparity between people's willingness to go to extraordinary extent to just fucking decimate the muscle and they like to train hard will create a huge gap in what the actual training stimuluses you one person just go go go go's like okay that hurts I'm done it's like the reps didn't slow down allow me Donald got some hilarious videos when he and Mike is her till we're going back and for if you probably remember this a couple years ago and talking about like what what happens when you maintain a rep temple like that as you see a reduction in the bar speed for the tempo and you can see like the reps you know like the last rep is maybe four seconds when previous he was one and a half or two on the concept he was like okay that makes when she gets to like four like one two three four and you come back down again it's like that next one's probably not going up unless you stop the bar down or whatever yeah so like Lyle does like an analysis of that and he'd actually you know times the reps to show and that's that's another you know nice metric the show that you evoked a certain um requisite amount of fatigue that would you could equate to reaching failure to to speak or you could use as a way of of standardizing the stimulus of the set based on the constraints of the rep temple and things that you said in there because we just let people do willingly will it will it will makeers some people are like like that story told about the guy trained with like I did my widow maker and he's like I'm not doing that we're done and he ever trained just let's just like the never do a real little maker because they don't want to do that yeah another people will like you want me to do another one mofo okay I'll do that like you ain't beat me no way know how today never and they'll do it they'll go to they die in a right so you gotta constrain those things if you want to equate the stimulus and take the the brain out of the out of the picture it's to some degree at least so right on all right top it though listen let's wrap this thing up uh guys go to uh b y o b e let me try that again go to b y o b b coach dot com you can get scots book there b-room body building coach and uh check out our great sponsors too true nutrition dot com user code think over there uh go to supplement source dot c a if you're in Canada and for those of you at patreon that are helping to support the show thank you guys very much and if you're interested every five dollars helps I will have links to that down below scot has always man it has been a pleasure and I'll look forward to uh it's a hearing more about to moxifin as that unfolds yeah yeah we'll do man

You're way of step on the accelerator. One way is with con-computer all. Binds the knacked-to-dates, the beta-tools. If you want to release the brake, you need to inhibit the affatools. And that's what your him-been does. And what role-loss key also does. So you can step on the accelerator and release the brake by using con-viewed-rawl and you him-been together. What's up guys? Welcome back to Muscle Minds with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McNeely and all of our programming is brought to you by you. The people of Patreon. Thank you guys for supporting our programming. We are also brought to you by TrueNutrition.com. You could use our code Think on High Quality Protein. High Quality Interworkouts, like highly-brings-cyclic-dextrin slash cluster-dextrin. Get wholesale prices over there, basically. Versus getting it from a company that bought it from a company that bought it from TrueNutrition. Also, we're brought to you by SupplementSource.ca for Canadians. Of course, last but not least, I can't forget. We just had so many comments the other day on Instagram. I got tagged in it. Somebody was very grateful that they bought the book, Be Your Own Body Building Coach. You can go to beyobbcoach.com. I don't have links in the description. You can go and buy the hardcover. You don't have to get the hardcover and Amazon. Scott, what's going on man? It's Sunday, baby. It's Sunday. I guess this is Fat Burner Day. It's like, yeah, it's good. Whether it's getting warmer, it's always warm, right? But it's like, okay, it's bring break, beach time. It's the cyclical flow of questions. Yeah. So thank you to Cat Rush. I hope everyone wants to get huge, right? Everyone's to bulk up and I was like, oh my god, I got fat. Right? Time to strike down. The diversion of the New Year's Resolutioners. Yeah. You come in during January and then they're gone in a month. Time to shred down now. It's time to shred down. You get shredded. We got it. Really, basically an entire outline from ash over on Instagram. He DMed us and I thought to myself, hey, this is really a great topic. He put a lot of thought into a series of questions related to fat burners. And his first part was he said, can you do a video on stimulants slash metabolic stimulants? And from here, he, I'll give you the intro part. He says use in contest prep. If they should be used off season and went to avoid stimulants. So I mean, if we're going to get into that, should we first talk about the different categories of, let's instead of saying stimulus, maybe fat burners got? Yeah. That's some of the different things that you've got. You've got things that grow hormones to create a grugs or grow hormone, which stimulates like polysis. You've got things like someone asked about DNP, so we got DNP or us and the acid is actually out there as used to be something you get in a supplement as a, a, a, a, a couple of a boxated phosphorylation. Then you've got stimulants. We've got compounds that would just stimulate the CNS and have an anorexic effect. Not turn into turning into something with an eating disorder, but limit your appetite. And that's going to have an effect if it's easier to stick to your diet. You just eat less, you know, normally would, even if you were on a diet. And then you've got thermogenic effects. And those would come from, from stimulants that basically are sympathetic, so they mimic the sympathetic nervous system, which is what generally is gets, or one of the main ways in which when we're on a diet, the sympathetic nervous system gets turned on, so liberate fatty acids. So those can, from the adipose, if things are going right. So that those can be oxidized in place of the fuel that we're not getting in the diet. So yeah, you've got growth hormone does it. And that's really growth hormones identity as an exogenous hormone. In individuals who aren't supplementing with GH, or it's an exogenous TH is as fuel regulator. So during exercise, we see GH go up, it helps with that liberation during sleep. We see GH go up, it helps with that regulation. But it's not really acting in endogenous levels as to promote growth, for say, because your organ is not growing unless you're someone who's got a GH disorder, you've got acromagaly, that's, you've got some sort of a pituitary tumor, or what have you. And then you're going to just keep growing because your growth plates haven't ever fused because of that continuous excess growth hormone. So we got that, the uncoplers, that's kind of, you can see uncopling in things that aren't direct uncoplers with DNP, that's why everyone loves DNP, right? All it does is it creates inefficiency in the conversion of the fuel, the energy in your fuel and your food as is converted to ATP. So basically it makes your mitochondria less efficient. So you have to oxidize and break down more fuel, more body fat, in order to get the wreck was the ATP. It works at a very, very basic metabolic level. It's probably DNP, I don't even really want to address that question, like the lowest effective dose, because you can screw that one up. And I've never prescribed that or suggested that with somebody that's, I always, I know people do it and people get away with it, but also creates, as you know, you probably talked about this on how many times and drugs and stuff, right? And also blood sweat and gear, DNP, it creates free radical stress, not the healthiest of compounds. There's inherent in our metabolism is the production of some free radicals. Happens when we train as far the training stress, it happens, you more oxidated, phosphorylation you have, the more oxidative metabolism you have, so like, you have some producer dieting down, is that what you mean by that? No, the more you're consuming fuel, okay. So the higher your metabolic rate, there's some like 3% 1% I've seen up to 1% between 1 and 5% I don't think it's high as 5, but 1, 2, 3% I forget to get that number. But of the oxygen that would normally go to producing was called metabolic water, so you boxed ice your fuel, all these really cool, transformed it of changes from potential into versions of potential energy to get ATP. And then hydrogen and oxygen combined of warm water, metabolic water, but every once in a while, some small percentage you get a super oxide radical. So you're producing the fashion metabolism, the more free radical you produce. So that's why for instance, in the aging world, in georontology, you're looking at the biology of aging, you can do things like genetically engineer, just softflhamelanagast or fruit flies to upregulate their free radical quenching ends, and they have a longer lifespan. So they live longer. So like one of the things, like I was just sort of thinking about this, caffeine was one of the compounds that's a number of different things actually, but it would be considered some path of medicine, it's a stimulant of cnessdemulin. But there's some evidence that I don't know the ins and outs of that pedemiology to poke holes in it and see to what extent this is mechanistic, but there's evidence that drinking coffee, and even in some of those studies, people were drinking decaffinated coffee, but that coffee can increase life expectancy. Really? But it's now going to change life span. I don't think so in life span, sometimes you see these words, sorry, I got a little puppy or needs attention now. Some of these words that used to anonymous, it's a lifespan. Oh, sweet, you got a patron. Life span is in the geological world means that for a given species, the long, long lividness of that species. So how long could an individual in that species live? So I think 122 years is the record by a woman. Life expectancy is typically like a 50% of a given population is died off. So your life expectancy would be 72 for a human. So increasing life span is different than increasing life expectancy. If you do things that are healthy, you don't smoke, you don't drink, what do you do? You're going to have a potentially a longer life expectancy, but it doesn't mean that you're going to increase your life span. So coffee actually may be because it has these antioxidant in it, which I talked about a few podcasts back, might be somehow affecting life expectancy. I don't think if you drink coffee, you're going to live to be 150. But there's potentially a lifespan impact there that manifests statistically as an increase in life expectancy, which is the epidemiological research suggests. You were kind of spitting off from DNP and you said, so you would said, and I just want to be clear here. One thing too is that having coached for about 15 years now and obviously done bodybuilding for longer than that, having competed for a long time, I wanted to be able to also I could share some of my real world experience with some of these things pros and cons. But just to be clear, DNP will not improve your life expectancy. Correct. Is that what you're looking at? I wouldn't expect that. Okay. Well, I have heard somebody say that that it will actually improve your life expectancy in your life, you know, that you'll live longer than it's helping you to build mitochondria as what I heard this coach say in that. I just wanted to be clear. Yeah, there's probably impact on mitochondrial biogenesis because it creates an energy demand. Okay. So exercise, crates and energy demand, we're getting more mitochondria because of that. So you exist in sexes. But the conclusion then was that then you're going to it's going to be healthy for you to take it. I think that's a false conclusion. I mean, I would not expect that whatsoever for two reasons. There's a whole, like, longevity and the theories of biological aging, there's like hundreds of theories that people have out there, right? But the couple, the main ones, one of them is the rate of living theory. So the faster you live with a higher, you're going to metabolic rate, shorter your life expected of lifespan. So you see this like in smaller animals. Don't live as long as large animals, right? So, but there's some kind of exceptions to that. So this is kind of funny. I remember some things from long ago. There's also this free radical idea and that comes from those experiments with animals that have been genetically modified to do a better job of quantum free radicals. So DNP increases your life, increases your rate of living so to speak, it increases metabolism. That speaks against that general notion we see cross species and it also increases free radical production, which would also not be who of you in terms of living longer. Okay. So we're free radicals, yeah, oxidative stress. There's kind of cool if you compare, I believe it's pigeons and parrots. They're roughly about the same body size. So you look across small to large animals in terms of how long they live. And those two are to compare them, I believe it's, if I remember correctly, parrots have enhanced free radical quenching ability. They tend to live really long. Yeah, pigeons live like two or three years or something like that, right? And who knows that may have evolved evolutionarily, but you know, because of where pigeons live, you know, a lot of times they're in, yeah, in places where it's better to have a faster turnover to adapt to whatever is going on in the environment, because it's less stable, maybe they're living urban areas or whatever. But anyway, so that's, so that's kind of an interesting little anecdote about the importance of free radical production. So, okay. Yeah, I wouldn't take DNP expecting you to live longer, especially, I mean, it should just make you feel awful. Right. There's so many horrible stories. I read it two times personally, I've never had any clients use it. And here's been my thought scout just from a practical standpoint is that I've been able to get people into like incredible shape, right? To you can, if you can diet somebody down to be the absolutely newest person in the contests, then there's no reason that you need to use DNP as well. You know what I mean? I feel like we have plenty of other tools through starting out with diet and, you know, diet and cardio being the first two. And then from there, there's so many more options. And then there's the element of time to the longer you do these things. Usually it's the guys who are in the best shape started out laying and then they dieted the longest. You know what I mean? A lot of times, then it's up being the case. My experience was using it in two different fashions. Once was early in the contest prep. And early ear, I should say, I was maybe 10 weeks out. And so I already was making progress and things were moving along. I was getting the fat loss. I wanted to use DNP for, I think it was a short period, like five, seven days. And I used S2H as protocol with the fruit and everything else. When I came off of it, I had fast forwarded several pounds. I had definitely lost several pounds of fat through doing it. But then it took me another two weeks to get back into the groove that I had been in, which I feel like it just kind of, if I would have just, I sped up for sure. But then it took me a while to figure out, okay, well, what's my needs now that I'm leaving me? I wasn't able to track along for that period of time. So it interfered with my ability to track progress, slowing me down for a period of time. There was that. The other time I ran, it was very close to a show. And it was summer, like July, August, and Michigan, humidities, nearly 100%. And it's upper 90s, just can't breathe. And I was working a manual labor job. And I felt like I was going to have heat stroke every day. And my energy was just so shot. So I just think, honestly, I've heard of people running it for long term through a whole kind of prep which is absolutely ridiculous if you ask me. And most people, I think, just about everybody I know that I respect what agree with that statement, that it is ridiculous. I just don't think that it's needed personally. So that's just my personal take. Like I said, having coach for 15 years. Did you hold a bunch of water when you're on it, too? I gained several pounds. It wasn't terrible, but I did. I did. Yeah, it's hard to tell. And that you're dropping down. It's training really, really hard. Yep. Going there and maintaining a good training stimulus. Not that I'm suggesting supporting this. But some people go in and they would just like gain eight or 10 pounds of fat they don't want. And they just blast the DNP and try to literally obliterate it in like 10 days and just suffer tremendously. And they're sweating yellow and there's all their sheets are getting destroyed. They've got to change your clothes three times a day. Yeah. And it just absolutely nasty. I just not a healthy. It's not a healthy way to go about it. No, so. But I tried it just because I wanted to know. I wanted to have the experience for myself. And I wanted to talk about it. I was curious. And most of the time, the people who use it, that's what I end up seeing. That they say, I just want to know. I want to try it. But anyway, so where do we go from here? I would say that on the list of popularity, it's DNP nowadays is pretty low. I put maybe clan, ECA. Those things being more at the top end of popularity. Would you agree with that? I think so. Yeah, although it's funny. There's a very Justin Musuel. This is name. He's a German bodybuilder who's going to get his pro card this year. Looks ridiculous. He's up and coming. I follow him online on Instagram and watch his videos. He's coached by Max Mats and. Oh, OK. Yeah. Two years ago, I think it was. They used DNP in his prep. OK. And doing OK. I don't think they did it this time. They didn't need to. And it's kind of interesting because he's greatly improved. He had a great offseason period. So but he's coming in and better shape. He's in better shape. It like four weeks out, then he was on the day of the show, even without changing his water. Good for how he's going to be using the DNP. But I think that you even put a book out in German on how to use it. Well, it's kind of risky in a certain way because you say, this is the serving size. And so bodybuilders take two and a half that. Right. Yeah. So that's kind of the scary thing is you can because the long half life, just bearish repeating because of the long half life of DNP. If you do compound your doses daily over time, you could end up with a very, very dangerous dose that you really can't get out of your body. You're going to have to go the hospital or put you an ice or what have you to try to cool you down because the thermo effect is just ridiculous. There's no anecdote. There's no anecdote. Yeah. There's no anecdote. Yeah. There's no anecdote. There's nothing you can take that's going to reverse that. Not other than it. No, I mean, it's, yeah, it's phenolic. So it's lipid soluble. It just kind of disperses self everywhere. And I don't know. Like you could find something that would bind it up. You would probably, you know, to be toxic as well. All right. So let's move on to Clinton. Where, what are we have to say about that? I know we did. And we did a great topic on this like 50 episodes back. And I bet a lot of people didn't hear it. We talked about what Clinton worked. We talked about how your himvine worked. And we talked about the combination of the two could, would you be up for explaining that again? Because I found that to be absolutely fascinating. Yeah. Well, let me, before we go to that, let me just, the part of the big question is Aussie's in versus pre-consist. You want to go into that first? The more low-bud view is where they should be used. Or the more we went. We just spent 20 minutes on DMP. If we could, if we could do like five minutes in seven, yes. Oh, no, we're here. We're 25 minutes in now. Okay. If we could do like five to seven minutes on the different compounds out there, that's what I was thinking was five to seven minutes on each compound that's of you know, and then from there, maybe go globally. Just to give people a picture of what's out there. Because when we talk about these things, my first thought is, well, what are we talking about? Okay. My first thought is, do you need the use them in the first place? And my senses, look at the natural guys who don't use any of the shit and they get shredded. We just say that off the bat, right? Yeah. These are all icing on the cake that should be tertiary to their primary choices of your diet and whether you're hard or not and everything else is counting steps and all the kind of steps. So this is down the, down the rank of the latter. So when it comes to the sympathetic nervous system, some mathematics, this is where the combination of clan and even a veteran, but clan in particular, and you're in a kind of cool because they're specific tools. You've got grossly speaking, alpha receptors to which north and f-run and f-run combine in beta receptors, right? And the alphas are kind of, they put the break down to my policies and the beta's would accelerate lipoluses. And this is really highly generic because you can find these different receptors in different tissue types like skeletal muscle versus fat versus smooth muscle, et cetera, et cetera, and you have different actions. So but we're thinking mainly about adipost issue. We're trying to liberate fats so those fats would be oxidized then and you dip into your body fat stores to lose body fat over the one at home. If you activate the beta receptors in particular, the beta, the beta choose. Actually, the beta, the beta, 2, beta, 3 is an adipost for all turn on lipoluses. The beta-tos are where computer all goes more specifically. That accelerates, that's like pressing on this is the analogy I was using. It's like pressing on the accelerator in your fat burning car, right? Yeah. You go faster. But there's also some binding that just happens from the endogenous other from the north and the f-run that's there. The other amongst the other, what's the word I'm looking for? You've had a colon means. So more up and up and up and up. And if you bind and activate the alpha receptors, that puts the brake on lipoluses. So there's some mechanism in the cells there where you can up and downroke, regulate those to control lipoluses and fat cell and regulate the fat. So you've got a brake and the alpha, in particular, the alpha, 2 receptors, you've got an accelerator in the beta because of the beta-tos. Your way of step on the accelerator, one way is with the con-computer all, binds the and activates the beta-tos. If you want to release the brake, you need to inhibit the alpha-tos and that's what you him being does and what role-l-l-skin also does. So you can step on the accelerator and release the brake by using con-buter all and you him being together. So they function as a nice, nice, nice, one-two punch for producing more lipoluses. I can do that and the more you can do the fuel. I can, analogy works so good for me. Like I can total-little lecture that it really does. Where does an effigy-run or ECA fit into that mix? So effort in actually stimulates pre-synaptic, sympathetic nerve endings to release more effort in effort. So it acts locally to increase sympathetic activity at the fat cells. It also has a course of essential effect on your appetite. From the studies, there's some really nice studies that are astrope was one of the people who did these a lot of these studies with obese people showing a nice effectiveness of effidrin, just effidrin in of itself. Then you combine it. There's a couple, there's one with caffeine too, but it was just a short-term study. But with effort in a long-term, it helps with fat. Fat loss, the impact on your blood pressure and your heart rate is on average at least goes away after some time. I think practically speaking most people still feel when they take some of the fedrin. There was a guy I was in grad school. He was an endurance athlete. He was an exercise psychology student. He was swimming a lot at the time. He was going swimming for like an hour and a half. He somehow tried reading about effidrin. He comes in, we're all studying. The study allowed to become zen. He was like, I never take effidrin. I never take effidrin. I never take effidrin. Yeah, we think you have. I was so sure. He was just, you know, I had it before. He was completely naive to it. So it acts a little bit differently. One of the questions was alternating between a fedrin and caffeine. I seen that work in all sorts of ways. The thing is the determining factor as to whether you... I mean, effidrin and clad. Yeah, what I'm saying. Just to be clear, effidrin and caffeine. I figured that's what you meant. Oh, yeah, I would just want to be clear. Not actually in the ECA and clen. Yeah. I'm actually what people would tell the... You don't need the aspirin in there. Although it does prolong the effect. So it inhibits, prostagland and synthesis. And we'll prolong the effect. And you can... If someone's taking, for instance, a fedrin and caffeine, they're just doing EC. And then they throw an aspirin if you throw in like an approximate. People will notice immediately. Okay, this lasts like twice as long. Really? Yeah. And actually there's a study in rats to where they gave tyrosine on top of it. These tyrosines are precursor for the catecholemines. It seems it actually reduced. It increased the anorexic effect. So the rats ate less. Really? Or also supplemented with tyrosine. So the... I believe it. The thing that happens a lot to people when they're doing ECA or just EC, or usually it's an ECA, but as they start to get run down over time. Yeah. Maybe that they're literally sort of becoming depleted at the sympathetic nerve endings of the north and the north and the north. And you can supplement that with tyrosine. And people notice a difference. You feel the stimulant effect it returns, and then the anorexic effects returns as well. And so I'm a big fan of altiricine. I used it every time. Countess prep I've ever done. And I found a real good anti-fatigue effect from it. Between ECA and clan, I personally found that... And some people like one, some people like the other. But I found a lot of ups and downs with ECA. Somebody asked with clan, what if they split the dose up through the day to prolong the effect? With clan, isn't clan a long half-life to begin with? Like you don't need to dose it multiple times. That's it. It does have a long half-life. That's how you're defining half-life. But people without a doubt get a cute stimulant or effect from clan with many people do. Yeah. So you take, like let's say you're going to do, I don't know, you're worked your way up to 80 micrograms. And then like that, right? If you do 80 in the morning, you definitely... It's like, oh, the half-life is 30 hours or whatever. Whatever it's supposed to be. Right. You've variable amongst people. You definitely feel that for the first three or four hours. The jitteriness and everything else that would come along. For sure. So you can break that up. I mean, I know people, I know one person, check that out, I'm thinking of who would take clan right before going to bed. Me too. I wonder if it's the same person. I tried it once and there's no way I'll ever do it again because it was... I couldn't fall asleep. Like, I was terrible man. But some people, they have no problem with it. Oh, yeah, I do it every night. Yeah. I've seen that with you, him being too. You know, like, oh, I've just forgot to take it so they just throw it in. They just chuck it in where they go to bed and they sleep just fine. Yeah. So that's one of the negatives too. It was one of the further along questions in this sort of outline we were given. So what's up? We're used. Yeah. We covered, so D&P and couple ofers and then we got into, we covered a bunch now with ECA clan and your himbine, would we be good to move on from here or maybe thyroid? Would that be a last place to wrap up saying that these would be the primary stimulant slash fat burners that we use that are used in the main ones? I mean, yeah, there's turbutaline that people use, another beta 2 agonist. Albuter all some people use albuter all. That one, you know, there is some evidence on albuter all being effective just like clay and buter all too, but it just doesn't seem to be. There's to some degree sort of you separate the beat from the chaff based on what ends up being used by people and see people's two use albuter all, maybe because they can't get the clan. That works too. I think albuter all is also prohibited by water. Like computer all in the animal research has an effect on muscle mass as well. So it has this repartitioning effect. So you lose body fat and gain muscle mass. You see it in livestock too. So like that's one reason, like you can build muscle with clan. There was a guy Justin Rice, RYS, I think is how it's not used went by a big kiwi. Oh yeah, yeah, he passed on. I've got to just maybe eight years ago now. So wild, but that was a maniac. Train just like a friggin monster. I correspond with him many, many years ago and like say how's it going? Blow, you know, how's it going mate? And he would say, oh, I got kicked out of another gym. That was just thrown up in the corner. He like he like I think remember the stories was he was squatting or something like that. And he lent me peeped in the corner and they went back and started squatting again. And I was like, I told I was going to clean it up when I was done, but I wasn't finished with my work. He just left a few climb, you know. Yeah, he was going to lose his pump. phenomenal guy. What's that? He's going to lose his pump if he didn't finish, right? Yeah, like he was just a madman. He was extreme with everything. Okay. He was one of those guys who ate like quote unquote like 12 meals a day. Yeah. You know, like every hour he was eating a meal or something. And he was using like 500 micrograms a planet day. Oh my god. And yeah, yeah, the numbers are you can look as fine as post on professional muscle. I'm pretty sure he said he was like 500. But he felt there was a repartitioning effect. He felt like he gained mass from that and he helped keep him lean. And I'm like, nine to one. I'll stop doing that. That's five steps. A little pop trying to climb on my desk. Yeah, yeah. So yeah, that's one of the reasons why water ruled out or prohibited of computer alls because it could help build muscle and be organic in that. I mean, dropping body fat can be organic too if you're lighter. Body weight and it's forced the lighter you are. At least if it's not dead weight, the better off. But so yeah, I think I think even in in my PhD research, we disallowed people who were using our computer all or clean. I'll be able to all was being prescribed then for asthma. Yeah, I think it's still maybe. Yeah, so yeah, so now I had to use. I got a prescription of it for it with my lung situation and it didn't really help me have a ton not like, like, plenty much more beneficial. But yeah, right. Yeah, but potentially it could impact things. So you like, I think I had one person like Rick Soryman can't be a, I'm not going to tell you to not take your medication for your asthma. That wouldn't be good. But you know, we want you to be clean for like six months before you come in for any residual effects on let you get back because like, Francis, I mean, just to sort of aside, but imagine someone were taking out of the computer all it was impacting their muscle mass and they were, you know, because a long-term use, they had three or four or five pounds of muscle mass they didn't. And then he's okay. Well, all stop taking it's out of my system in a week and they come into your, and then they they're losing or the course of your training study, they're losing those growth effects that they've previously gained while you're applying this training stimulus in whatever condition they're in. And then the two things are negating one another. So you're not, you don't have someone who's got the same baseline as everyone else. Yeah, I've worked with a number of people that were natural otherwise that had, that I can't say that they grew muscle in a contest prep, but man, it sure did give a nice visual effect. There's a slight drying effect to it too, that I'm a more personally a fan as a coach than I am of ECA. Some people like ECA if they wanted to use it, it's not like, you know, whatever. But I like that there's kind of like that dioritic like effect of losing a little bit of water looking a little tighter. And you know, as far as the muscle growth thing goes, of Albuterale, good friend of mine, friend for years, will he has, fashion was it, fascia, scapula, humoral, muscular dystrophy. And so that would be like the face, scapula, and humoral effects all like up top from, anyway, they prescribed him Albuterale. It's been shown in studies for people with muscular dystrophy to help to reduce muscle breakdown. So they're, you know, just yeah, so he had been, you see, I mean, breathing difficulties. Does it, I mean, is it good far down as his diaphragm so that he has, in spritory? It's not yet. But from what I understand, it's a progressive disease. And so with time that is eventually what occurs and that's generally what takes people out that have it is being can't breathe anymore. So yeah, he's doing good. You know, he's doing good. Right. He's doing everything. He trained in man, maintaining that shit, right? Yeah, exactly. He'd that reserve. So, you know, if he's, if he's got a Vue to max, that is twice that of what otherwise would be, he loses half of it because the disease, he's still at where an Arnold person would be. Yeah, yeah. You know, that's the way to look at it. So that's, but at least then thyroid T3 and T4, what would we want to, what would you want to say about that? And then maybe we could go global with it. Yeah. Obviously that would go down if you're not supplementing with it. Exoginously, right? As you die it, like it goes, you can go really low in some of the case studies with natural body voters can go really low. I've got a, we got a question about that. He was related to half life, or at least it came up on one of the other podcasts. And it did a deep dive for John, on John Meadowsite. He's kind of plugged on site on that. So the main dot com. Mountaindog.com, exactly. Yeah, that's just, that's something you'd want to, ideally, right? That's, you want to make sure you're met about break doesn't go down. If you're from a table, it was slowing, then you'd have to go into a deeper deficit to produce the, the court deficit and then more you do that, the more you metabolisms, laws, et cetera, et cetera. So, you know, when it comes down to a difference in three or four hundred calories a day, youth thyroid versus hypo thyroid, that makes a difference over weeks and weeks of a diet. It could be even less than that, right? And the extent to which that happens varies by person, this is where blood work could be nice because the thing, you know, that you see, you may have seen this. I'm, this doesn't happen with your clients because you don't allow this, but people throw in thyroid as a fat burner at the end and they use too much, they throw in under micrograms or something. And then they increase their metabolism everywhere and then boom, they end up losing muscle mass. So they, you know, they have this horrible P ratio in the last three weeks and they end up just looking, really, really thinned out and overdided and they dropped muscle, which was unnecessary. They got the body fat off, but they end up having a terrible look. Then they would have if they just died it for four weeks longer and shows in a different show. And they ask them, so that's the thing with thyroid. It can be really, it's catabolic. But for instance, we compare it, computer all, which doesn't seem, I just haven't seen any evidence in humans that has this repretition effect, but in animals for sure. There's evidence anecdotal evidence, Princess from Big Keyweb. That's a lot of cland, don't do that, please. Also, too, he was probably taking other stuff, so it's not like it was completely isolated, right? No, he was just everything man. He was arrested. He was, guy was just, his recreational use, was I think pretty crazy. He lived just hard man. He got out of the guitar. He just one of those guys, it was just unlike, you know, he was living like three times faster than anybody else. Well, I hope that he, I hope he enjoyed it. You know, we all we get this one opportunity. So if that's what he did, I hope that's the way he, it sounds like it's the way he wanted to do it, you know, so in a way more power to him, I guess. There's a, there's a documentary out there about him, I believe, on YouTube. And you can read, regretted it in the end. He didn't live past 40. Yeah, he regretted it. And if he ended up with, I forget what he was diagnosed with, but it was a musculoskeletal disorder. Of some sort of, he was pretty much, and I mean, it's hard to say what caused what? Because, you know, there's no one hardly anyone is doing all the shit that he did. Grating the way he did, but he, he had a lot of health issues there at the end. Poor guy. He tried to fight it. You know, he kept on coming back and coming back. That was just, you know, an indomitable spirit, but he, I think he regretted. Because, you know, he had people, he had a lot of people that really loved and cared about him. And he left the earth really, really soon. So you still see his pictures on the banners and stuff with professional muscle because they want to kind of honor him. Just just an awesome guy. One of those guys where he posted like what his client use was or whatever he did and people would come in, just, you know, guys that are half his size or whatever type of glitches bashing him, just saying these horrible things. He was just like, you couldn't, you couldn't, you couldn't, you could nothing bother them. He's like, that's wild. Yeah, he was just just a wonderful, wonderful dude from what I knew of him. So, so yeah, Tyroid can, you know, and I see different opinions on this. I think I saw something from Dr. Dean St. Martin recently on thyroid. So, for instance, if regardless of what you're using T4, T3, you're going to shut down your own adoption, thyroid, there's advantages to T4 versus T3 potentially. Check out Dean's post on this just from like two weeks ago. T4 is what sometimes is considered standard practice. You read that sometimes sometimes people use compounded both because there's degrees in to have T3 in there just because that's that actually is the active form. T4 is converted. The advantage of using T4 would be that you let your body convert the T4 into T3 based on its nutrient status. So, you're not going to drive, especially if you're deep in a diet, you're not going to drive or met a ball of great excessively with less likely to let's say with T4, then with T3 because T3 just slams on the accelerator, muscle fat, everything. Yes. T4 has to be converted. So, that conversion will be driven by insulin levels, for instance, in your nutrient status. So, you're going to supplement what's produced predominantly in the thyroid plant itself and then let the body parse it out as needed. So, that's a way to more subtly encourage a more normal use thyroid status. I found this way is to try to keep your thyroid like in place if you're going to use thyroid, sorry, I mean, there are a few, but it's okay. And then have that in place like 10, 12 weeks out, right? If you're going to do that and just and just so have that as a factor and like, you know, you've got to do anything because you know what's coming in, you're good there and it's not like, okay, now I don't know what to do. I'm going to just slam a bunch of thyroid. You know you're already good thyroid wise based on your blood models. Right. And then you can manipulate those things. That's kind of what I was getting at. That's what I have kind of leaned toward doing now, is years ago, I think the first time I ran it, I got my information off the message boards, right? And so I started it 25 and I went to two weeks later, I increased and then I increased and then I increased up to like a hundred and I did lose fat. There's no question on it, but I definitely kind of sized down in the process too. Wasn't the best diet to begin with, but anymore, at the time, there was a huge talk of, you've got to be on cycle if you're doing this because, you know, that's what people would say because you, you took to fight off the muscle loss effect. But I found that nowadays, just a low dose. And the way I explain it, it's almost like a replacement dose. You know, like you said, natural guys get their thyroid tank. They get their testosterone tank too. And if you were to lie down and just a TRT dose of, you know, testosterone and just a replacement dose of T3 or you go like Dean was saying T4 possibly. I've generally, I found T3 if they're not using growth. I'll go straight to T3 a lot of times in a, in a predintype situation. But just those low, that little low dose, it's almost like the way I've seen it's got. And this is just me, my, my bro brain is that as we die it down, our bodies want to resist fat loss at a certain point. You know what I mean? We're, our body doesn't want to change. And I see that decrease of thyroid output as being part of that, like trying to preserve the stores that we have. But we can basically, guess the word would be like hack that whole system by ensuring that you have like a healthy steady dose all the way through regardless of what we're doing, regardless of what we, what we do with your carbs, you know, regardless of what we do through your calories. It's just there humming along in the background the whole time. So that's, that's been my taking that. I don't see like muscle loss, you know, with that. No, that's totally dead on me. That's not just, that's just not just bro brain. You know, that's, that's what happens in the colitis with the science shows. That's, you know, what the body is doing in, in safe guarding a set point or a settling point, or when you go beyond the intervention points or whatever model you want to use for bodyweight and body fat regulation. This thyroid is one of the primary regulators of metabolism. So the body is going to react. Like when it doesn't have what it needs, it's going to adjust the metabolic rate. And thyroid is, is one of those hormonal systems that's there. Yeah. To testosterone too, you're dead on. Yeah, replace all those things. And I mean, I would love to see, I don't think there's an, I'm trying to think of anything I can think of this really, but I'd love to see and it would be interesting to take two groups. God, I would love to have twins, right? Get an identical twins steady, like get a cohort, you know, and you split them up and they die it down on essential, essentially the same diet and exercise program, whatever. And one you just replace hormones, right? You just replace those two hormones and see, you know, when you get them down to not just enough to go to stage level necessarily, because that would be that'd be a lot to ask for for study. And let's be able to get on a, yeah, get on a stage at the end. But, and just see how much of a difference you see. I would think you would be substantial. I know, I know when you got guys that have been on for a while and they come off and they're hypogonatal and maybe they're not really totally aware of how low they are. And then they're not making any gains. The general thing is to start, would you just put them on to your T, the dose response from going hypogonatal to you go andatal is just tremendous. Yeah. The other way around going backwards, I think, would also, is probably also pretty dramatic. Yeah. When dropping down fat and trying to hold on the muscle, I'd imagine it, you know, making these huge difference. Like pretty much, I would imagine with those two things, you could probably enhance fat loss, 50% and cut muscle loss in half by 50% or even much more going down into single digits without a doubt. I don't have any on average. Yeah. I would agree with that. Yeah. So, you know, going back, so, did you want to address anything more big picture? Because it, or his next question, which was, you know, we kind of covered use in contest prep. He also talked about like, should these things be used in offseason, went to avoid these things? Yeah. So, these are, these are the cards you can play when you really want to get absolutely for against shredded. And like I mentioned a little while back, we've got all these natural competitors that basically have proven, right? They're, they're demonstrable evidence that you can get shredded without using those things, right? So, that's possible. And so, if you're someone then who has, let's say you're on gear, not talking about fat burners here to hold on to muscle mass, you just, you have that advantage in terms of diet dieting down. So, you have all these other things that can come into play, it makes sense to me to use those sparingly. The one thing that natural competitors typically have to do almost universally, I think unless they're just absolutely genetic races that they have decked these six nine-month diets. Yeah. These guys, they go like, they take two years off between shows or longer to try to like, especially if the higher levels and they get like three or four pounds of muscle and then they have to spend nine months just slowly, slowly dieting down. And that's a long time to spend in a hypoconatal hypothyroid state. Those guys suffer, man. They don't get near the cred for it that I think they deserve, maybe in the enhanced world, but they really suffer. So you can do all these things. So you have these fat burning tools that are available to you and to some degree, for instance, let's just take stimulants and I think I've heard Justin Harris talk about this a couple times. Like, he's totally against stimulants in the offseason from what I understand. You may have changed his mind. And I would generally agree with that idea of avoiding those to the extent you possibly can because they will and can blunt your appetite. Maybe the first month after a show where you're in your post-contest period or maybe what you might call your. I love it how when people, they're like 10 days after their show and they say offseason form. It's like, you just competed two weeks. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You just been pretty tight. Yeah. Oh, I see some. So I see some form on five percent. It's like, you're, it's a good place after having just competed. Yeah. You're all rolled up. That's it in pizzas for the last three days. That's a nice, that's a more appropriate. It's like, look, I'm doing a good job with my, my refading after my show. That's cool, right? Yeah. But um, so it makes sense then if you've been on stables for weeks or months to chill and slowly reverse out of those who don't crash. Yep. Right. So you've got all these things that are in your pre-contest style that you have to kind of recover from. But using those in the offseason means that those cards have been partially played. It's time to die down. Yeah. So um, that's something to consider. The other thing to consider, if for instance, you're someone who just genetically tends to put on ton of body fat, right? Mm-hmm. And let's just take kind of the worst case scenario. You tend to be what Matt Porter called Husky. Yeah. Used to call Husky body type, right? See, to kind of put on body that easily. Muscle masterly isn't a problem. Eating enough is an a problem. Um, you work a nine to five job and you've got kids at home that are waiting for your after work. So you get up at four in the morning, you know, piss your kids, divide while they're still in bed and then you run off the gym training the morning. And so you take, drink some coffee, you have an ECA stack maybe because it's even simple and you just fly out the door. You get your best training at that point in time. And it doesn't impact your sleep because it's so far away from your sleep by the time it's bedtime. You just crash. Yeah. Right? That's, and this also is helping stay off that body fat accumulation. I talk about a good friend of mine. She was just like, it's amazing. My friend Barb from California. Okay. She's on my website. She has a, um, there's a PowerPoint upon how to do your own color with with protein. She used to do protein backstage. Um, she was Jay Cutler's favorite person for putting on color. Oh, it does get a. Yeah. Way back. She's been trying for a while. But um, and she had never taken you him being before. So she started taking it in the office. You see someone who could take her over for she went to bed. Then brother at all, which you notice, but it prevented her from putting on lower body fat, which she always had a problem with. She would get pretty big in her off season and legs would just get gigantic and they had a lot of fat on them. So that they were so by far the last thing to come in. She took you him being in the off season. It didn't come across as a stimulant to her at all. It didn't, it didn't cause any sense of, you know, heart tribulations or heart palpitations. What have you? But it helped her to stay off that lower body fat. And then she the next year she came in much better, much more easily. So that might be a use in the off season. But if you're someone who typically stays lean and you like, you're just, let's say, you're, let's take the other worst case scenario, right? You're known for staying lean, you know for your condition, but you need to get size. And your ego is attached to being the guy who's shredded all your around and everything like this guy stays lean all the time. And you keep coming in to light on stage or in the wrong weight class. You need to be able to eat enough to where you're going to get some more body fat put on. And you're, you're just not someone who can pound down the food. Then taking fat burners, especially stimulants that are inhibitor appetite, that's not, that's not what you want to be doing. You'd want to be probably not doing that. And then getting as much sleep as you possibly can. So you can grow and assure that you're arrested and recovered and stay away from anything that stimulates metabolism. Because that might be, that might be your downfall. Right. I think when we're talking about how carnitine before the last, and I mentioned someone who I co-responded with who was using elcarnitine and but no thyroid and they took the elcarnitine out and the carnitine blocks thyroid action. And then they started losing weight precipitously. Yeah. And like because they released the break on their thyroid, so to speak in this case. So for that person, like having the size and this was an a dieted on position, having the size they have, apparently from this anecdote, apparently was partially dependent upon not having a really fast metabolism. You don't want to have a fast metabolism. So take that guy who's like once always be single digit body fat percentage. Having that fat metabolism might be the thing that's preventing him from getting the size that you want. So he might just basically have a system that is akin to someone who's someone actually is hyper thyroid and he may not be truly hyper thyroid where he can't gain muscle mass because his metabolism is so fast. So that person fat burn is the last thing they want. You want to have all the energy available for the muscle growth. So generally speaking, I think there's got to be a good reason why you'd want to use fat burn stimulants in the offseason. And the main one really would be if you just absolutely because of your lifestyle or whatever you can't get a good, you don't get a great, you're always your warm down when you go into your training. The problem with that is then you're masking your ability to auto regulate. So you're going in your workout and you're masking your fatigue with stimulants and it could get the effect you're sleeping, everything like that. That's of course the main thing to watch out more than the main things to watch out for. But then you don't know when you really need a break. So you're basically you're pushing yourself into an overreaching state unknowingly to some degree because you're continuing to be able to train harder than you would be able to if you just went into your training. Sometimes it might be those days you walk in your like, knock, not today, baby. I'm going home and want to have a nap with the kids or whatever, you know. That's what the stimulants will mask in many cases and I think that can get in the way for people. Yeah, I'll be agree with that. How about I would say one place would be T4 with growth if needed, if needed, you know, I wouldn't say because I kind of get the vibe that some people see that it's like a mandatory thing. Like well I started to couple units of growth. I got to get on the T4 with that. I have seen cases though and I think these cases have increased with that there's a correlation I think between good quality, generic being readily available. On the UGL market and people dosing it higher, I'm seeing more need for T4 while in an off season because we're getting T4 that's really funky really nice. Yeah. That said, when it is needed, I do feel like there's kind of some magic in there for people. Yeah. I really think that it works really well if you're using enough growth that you actually need it. Can't just blood work. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That definitely was an exception to it. And that we're talking about, we're talking about like basically a replacement again. You know what I mean? We're not talking about like actually trying to hey we're going to try to add this into that we burn fat. But there isn't effect though. I think we're now we can keep that food really, really high and you're just coming along through it between having you know, eating it's a growth and you know, a modest dose of T4 in there. Yeah. I mean there's there's so many levers that are involved with trying to have a good P ratio as you're in the off season. Yeah. So you know, you've got whatever the natural propensity is for your your body to put on muscle mass, relative to the stimulus you provide and the need for a chloride excess. Right. So those two things like in most studies like they don't even worry about diet. They might measure, but they're not ensuring like okay one we're going to have whatever the conditions we are high volume low volume or higher reps or more reps reserve or whatever we're going to compare these two things. And then we're going to make sure we optimize growth rubber one by doing a baseline period, getting their chloride intake and then prescribing a diet where they've got you know a 500 chloride, 540 calorie excess. Imagine a study it would be really almost it would be really interesting to take a study where you actually have the athletes, the subjects being individually coached and you're optimizing everything and you have the only parameter that's different being a say the training regime. Okay because if you've got 12 weeks or 16 weeks to see you do kind of a longer-end study there's all sorts of things that don't get done in these studies because this is the nature of the question you're asking it's like you might de-load somebody halfway through you know then everyone will be deluding at different times but still you actually they're practical question are we training three reps reserve versus training failure. Well it turned out training failure had the de-load twice during the training period but they made better gains let's say. That's the thing that would have wouldn't. And maybe training to failure you on average you found you had to increase the diet more because the parameter that you set was an increase in body weight of one pound for a week and you shot for that because you adjusted their diet throughout the training study that doesn't happen in training studies you know they just monitor the diet or they don't even pay attention to the diet and just the training differs but you want to have your diet in place so my point being getting back to our topic is all these things that you all these parameters that can be changed is how much how well you put on weight relative to your core success is a function of you and then when you throw on top of that how fast your metabolism is is going to change that too so you take let's say two people simplify this take two people who have just will just kind of assume they have similarly metabolism that reacts similarly in terms of increasing their BMR as they get larger and as the eat more yeah so the more you eat the opposite of when you die down your table some will get faster right and then other things can happen your neat will change of set or set of let's just take two people increase in just basal metabolic rate is the same but one person has a proclivity for putting on muscle mass and the other person doesn't one person's got marathon runner genetics the other person's got power of our left-rode genetics so the other person repartitions that energy differently right so that's thing going to mean even though they have that same parameter the same at the beginning the other person puts on more muscle mass roll over the body fat because the energy is going where you want it to sometimes you assumption I've got in questions from people sometimes like we just eat an echloric excess you know and all the energy goes into building muscle signal that's not how it works yeah it's how your body how the muscle cells themselves the muscle tissue takes on because of the hormonal changes the energy changes the amino acid presentation and everything is going on well luckily in terms of adapting to that training stimulus so someone might take four out of five hundred excess calories and it goes to muscle building and the other just is the excess that just ends up spilling over the muscle into the fats all right and someone else might take a hundred or two hundred out of those five hundred calories and it goes to muscle whether the recipe goes to fat so one person has a great pea ratio but now lots of muscle very little fat the other person doesn't so then when you add in something it speeds up your metabolism someone who has that proclivity to take four out of five hundred calories and put it to muscle building adding a little G3 might even make they mean they gain muscle faster and you see that with guys who add G3 in the off season and they said growing better yeah they feel they're under those very specific circumstances for them and they're probably on gear on top at all that sort of thing yeah and they're probably in a lot of food yeah and eating a lot of food and then someone else that might be helpful because that T3 might prevent them from gaining as much fat but they still gain muscle at a much lower rate so you have to be more careful so that adds another level of complexity and all these things interact with one another and that's why you got to watch what's happening in the mirror on the scale in the gym with your recovery levels and everything else so yeah whether you're going to use T3 and growth in the off season or T3 with your or T4 with your growth and all the stimulants it's all matters what's happening the individual yeah that was my point I think all right so let's get yeah let me see if we have any listener questions here's got that are related to this there was one I I wanted to kind of address this um I can find it he said thoughts on dmp use and pro bodybuilding and this this isn't the answer I think that he's probably like expecting but I would tell you just a brief story Scott that this is one of the reasons I wanted to do podcast like I wanted to make my own podcast is years ago I had done a lot of research on IGF this is like 2004 2005 it was really hard to come my back then and it was very a lot more expensive to get like the research grade stuff that everybody's easily getting now anyway through my research and through like me diving in to learn what it did me looking yet what other people are talking about on the message boards I started thinking that everybody must be using this that there's the reason that these guys are as big as they are on the pro stage and I was earlier in bodybuilding so it's the there must be a reason these guys are not looking the way I do all right I'm not looking like them and and I thought that they must be taking things I'm not and through reading about all the stuff about IGF L or three I started thinking well this is one of those things and so I started spending an exorbitant amount of money to get this IGF at the time and using this and I did you know experience some level of results from it but I still wasn't one of those guys at stage and then fast forward several years I heard John Meadows talking and John was asked what his experience was with IGF and he said I never used it and I believed him you know I believe John at the time and say so John never used the stuff he's like yeah did they didn't really know a lot about it this isn't something he really experimented with and so this this light bulb went on in my head and I was like okay so what I had understood what I thought I was reading probably like the equivalent of what red it is today you know what I mean like if you want to learn about IGF you can go to red it you're going to find out so much information you're going to have people telling you all these things about how awesome it is but then you got a guy who's John Meadows size and John didn't even know what it was so I realized that a lot of the guys who are what they are they aren't they aren't that lean in this case DNP because they're they're because they're using you know compound like that in fact I can say that now having done as many podcasts as I have I've had the opportunity to become friends with a lot of the guys that I've interviewed and stuff I I can't think of many really there are guys that have used it don't get me wrong I'm not saying nobody no pros have ever used it but I would say it's not a popular compound and probati building yeah I would agree with that well heartedly I've the stories I've heard is someone tried to use like low dose and they realized it didn't do anything for them compared to how they died at previously or someone was a pro and they were behind and they tried to pull out emergency maneuver and yeah and didn't work up for them those are the stories I've heard so yeah I think that's that there's this general tendency been seeing like even in the question like this is what the pros do right what are the pros do it's like first of all the pros chose the right parents that's the main thing that they did you know they've got their their genetics are there and there are people that become pros in the way that feel heathed I do that that why you don't look like a pro talk to me yeah years ago I the first slide in there as I went and looked at the lipia top 10 and I went back and and figured out how long it took them to turn pro and there were a couple couple athletes who had some long pauses in their competitive history and I took those pauses out it was two and a half years from first show to becoming pro this is and that's not so that's not so amazing when we you know think about people coming pros in bikini or send the other divisions but at this point in time and open body building from first show to pro card that's just crazy that's just that's just rocketing to the top but you do have people and I'm not gonna name any names but you do have people who are at at the pro level and they they're playing all their chunk cards all at once they're using high massive doses of everything and there are people that get return pros who have great genetics and they get into the pro ranks and it's like okay I'm gonna be a middle lower level pro unless I push all those things in that way so you can have guys that are using like minimal stuff and they're just like super responders to everything they're just ridiculous right and then you have guys that dot every eye and cross every team got the full spectrum at that pro level but the one thing that they all have is extremely better than average genetics otherwise they wouldn't have gotten to and stayed at the pro level to my open by a feebee pro bodybuilders right now they wouldn't stay there unless they had great genetics and the thing that I just like among the things that they're throwing in an arsenal DNP doesn't seem to be one that's used that often you know Justin had that like a that's a great example like he did it that previous year and they kind of got away with it and they're kind of monetizing that now as something that you know you could do not something I would do but they did it and you know and there are people like you know STUH you mentioned people go back and listen to those podcasts you know who have ways of doing it that they've done which you know have been safe for those individuals it's just not something like the margin of safety isn't large enough to mean even think about suggesting someone do that yeah and he didn't even advocate it he didn't even want to talk about it we kind of had to pull it out of him because he didn't want to be yeah he didn't really think it was a great idea for people to be doing you know yeah yeah so I don't think a lot of pros are doing that like guys aren't saying okay you know I'm going to just die it down for the next eight weeks on DNP it's not something they're using the main thing really is you feel just so terrible you can't train hard and hard training is one of the most in my mind one of the most important things for holding on muscle mass you can maintain your training performance lifting the same loads for us roughly the same reps same form as you get into the last three or four weeks before your show you're going to hold on your muscle mass or maybe even grow depending on how you do all the other things but that's what you got to have in place and if you're taking something maybe it makes you feel like crap and you just can't train hard enough then it doesn't really matter you can't you can't produce that stimulus to maintain the muscle mass you have and you know you lose all the fat you're better at that but without the muscle it's not bodybuilding it's it's it's a poor stage performance I think yeah I think a good equivalent when you said like at the time it was really hard you know it was a lot harder to turn pro took two and a half years for the average guy in that lineup to turn this isn't an option Olympia yeah the best of the best yeah yeah now I would say those guys are like the guys who are immediately a threat when they turn pro in open like Nick Walker you know I mean like Nick Walker turn pro and he was immediately a threat in open bodybuilding you know he's one of those guys that yeah he has genetics I definitely never did I can't even pull up that list of people they're all everyone is a name you know they've all won numerous pro shows in that particular year I think six of them ended up being Mr. Olympias yeah something like that that's wild yeah it was like or we're already it was texture jackson and big ramen and fill hea texture never had to go ahead and texture didn't play all his cards out the gate because he had to do it for another 28 years or something you know what I mean it's a great example yeah and texture also wasn't doing cardio until like the last few years yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah and you know and like he brought his legs up supposedly using an an EMS movie unit to that you know played in the last like two few years before retired his legs kind of like okay it's like we're going downhill and now they're now he's in a great spot yeah so you know and I don't think texture was you know just bang everything he possibly could oh no he would equip him for that I know he would have you know yeah I mean I do a pro who is known for just having having it wasn't flex wheeler it wasn't texture but someone on that level back in the 90s or let 2000s one of the if I just say one of the best poesers ever if not the best okay it's not high green just absolutely amazing poeser and I remember having a conversation with him and another person and man he's like I just hate doing these damn injections like he's hated doing he was always missing his shots yeah now we're doing his stuff he's like spluck this man I haven't done a shot for like two months and he still looks really crazy it's probably hypo gonna add a the genetics which is off the chain with these guys yeah so a lot of them and that and that actually is something that helps with longevity like I'm sure texture you know wasn't he probably people would have been amazed by how how little he used yeah I know they would be and they probably will see who wouldn't believe it so I'll tyrosine in the off season during a bulk phase comma year round what do we think about that yeah that's I think it's totally acceptable yeah right yeah yeah it's it's in a lot of pre-workouts nowadays I'll tyrosine this it is for that reason as a precursor yeah and that's not like it's just you know it's just to mean a acid there's no negative side effects as long as we're I mean maybe if you start taking like 50 grams of it a shot yeah yeah that would that would make sense see if it works for you on an empty stomach seems to work best most people to have sort of a sense of energy or well being so yeah yeah see if we had anything else because I feel like we covered a lot of this stuff you know there was a question from the last um yes I don't know if you have time for it today it's from the last video about pulling on to gains that you freshly acquired in the off season before dieting down how the thing great question yeah do you remember that um yeah it's in the there wasn't too many comments from last I might I dug it up you had mentioned other comments and that's a big question there's a answer okay let me see if there's one more here uh and it never it says uh I never woke up hypos I never stayed hypos for that long so 8 a.m. I woke up at 5 a.m. shaky and sweaty going hypos this feeling stayed for an hour and even when I got up of bed and took three I used growth did my fasted cardio it didn't go away until 7 a.m. when I ate my first meal I never woke up hypos I never stayed hypos for that long what does that mean though is it a good sign um meaning that I'm quite sensitive or could it be an issue so it sounds like he had low blood sugar over night fasted right and uh sounds like his blood sugar was just real though it was using long acting insulin or something yeah I don't think so didn't say anything about that but yeah yeah ratings guy okay let's see here I figure and then let's after that one let's end on the question about retaining muscle size freshly gain muscle because I think that's a great topic oh yeah he had I did a refeed 400 grams carbs in my last meal at 8 p.m. you woke up oh yeah I missed that's what I woke up in my senior yeah I get that I get that like all the time me too the way yeah like just like now like doing nothing if I if I go to if I miss like a mid afternoon meal so normally I'll get up have some to eat I'll train roughly about this time of day maybe a little earlier we have podcast or console to ever and then I'll have a big meal yeah and then about four or five o'clock if I have an eat and it like three I'll start to go hypos and it passes quickly but yeah that's that's reactive hypos they see me so that's from that big ask me also he could add some fiber in there mm-hmm more maybe change the types of carbs easy eating um something that's got a lower glycine to index and probably probably um avoid that yeah he has zero carbs on his off days I see he it was multiple posts that he made yeah I'm trained in this that a refeed a 400 carbs so yeah that makes total sense to me yeah yeah so that question I don't if you want to pull it up or I can choose like you know yeah I don't have it off hand but it the topic though it was how to retain mus like how to retain freshly gained muscle mass the question was if actually there's any research or studies to this the dressing this phenomenon where people will make new gains as the off-season goes on so at the end of the off-season they gain a new amount of muscle mass and then they lose that when they go into their diet if they don't spend some time trying to hold it right and that's like that's been around for forever like you got to hold those gains right you got to solidify those gains yeah and might might the thought as it's kind of kind of simple but my best guess because there's nothing there's nothing nothing to that that I know of in the literature that's too much that's such that we such a long study to do to follow people and shifting their diet around like that's so body-blading so if you'd be great study to do but you have to you know have a whole bunch of people and then if you got the new gains with them that are already advanced and then take those who did and just study them or select them out afterwards like that'd be a very hard thing to study but the phenomenon does seem to exist and my big take on this generally is that you see studies there's still some arguments about the importance of of satellite cells as far as muscle growth hypertrophy no longer and the idea with the satellite cells they're responsive to muscle injury they also get called into play during muscle hypertrophy there's this longstanding nuclear domain theory the satellite cells they multiply and so they leave a reserve behind and that extra satellite cell becomes a nucleus in the growing muscle cell just like post offices in a growing city you have to have a certain density of post offices in the city to service a certain area of the city right so if the city is getting bigger you need more post offices the muscle cells getting bigger need more satellite cells right or you need more nuclei and those come from the satellite cells but there are some studies various animal models even humans where you can see that you don't have an increase in the number of satellite or number of nuclei and them scale the muscle although it's gotten significantly bigger 20% or so something like that you know you can see up to 20% increases in muscle cell cross-sectional area without any parent impact of satellite cells but in the long haul and even when you look at in the short term studies the more satellite cells you have the more output of those local factors that turn on the satellite cell activity and the more satellite cell density end up with the muscle the better off you are in terms of muscle growth so in the long haul when muscle cells are getting really really large like you'll see and some but not all the studies of more advanced body builders you need more you need more nuclei those come from the satellite cells so the way I sort of envision it like taking those piece in those things together is you've got muscle growth that's occurring and then maybe there's some sort of a threshold phenomenon where eventually when the cell starts to get so much larger the satellite cells have to eventually start producing more nuclei so a city that goes from 31 to 32,000 people and you don't need more more post offices but when you go to 38,000 people now it's another 8,000 people you need another post office somewhere in there you know be localized to the area of growth of the city but just in this in the muscle cell you need more satellite cells but there's a period of growth without that so if we keep growing and growing and growing the growth oh no oh no wait I hear you back now did I completely cut out yeah you did you said you said there's a period of time the growth yeah so as you're getting bigger and bigger and bigger the increase in muscle muscle cell volume across sectional area is going to precede the inclusion of more satellites cells are more nuclei so if you're there at that point where you're getting a bigger muscle cell then you ever had that growth happens and then it's not just all sudden whoops not our fingers more and got out of the nucleus there right there's it takes some time for that nucleus to make itself in there that's a that's a pretty large structural um reorientation of the muscle cell to do that so you get there and you got that size it's myofibular hypertrophy the muscle the muscle cell is functional but if you then die right back down again you don't have enough time to get the satellite cells that are in to become nuclei I don't have this time for the more nuclei and one of the mechanisms of muscle memory is are the satellite cells because once you've in the idea of being like once you've got those nuclei in there that's a major restructuring of the muscle cell it's going to just like hey where they were staying in this big right we got new nuclei in here so each of those nucleus is taking herbids domain it's so it's little volume that it takes over so it's going to it's going to act in a way that keeps the muscle at that size got other mechanisms too but that's the satellite cell potential contribution to this muscle memory phenomenon so if you gain that size before the satellite cells have established themselves as nuclei then you no longer have the muscle memory effect in place and you start dieting down again that that new muscle cell growth before the nuclei have established themselves is very labile it's not stable so so then it's easily lost but if you get it and you hold it and you stay there for two or three months right you got to your advantage then potentially the nuclei have made their way in so that's a muscle memory effect you also this is I think really important too is let's say you're going along and you're getting stronger and stronger stronger alongside the growth you're using loads you've never lifted before your squat and 500 pounds or 495 which you've never done before and then you begin dieting right away and you spent you had two workouts with 495 and then you're this is psychological probably neurological ah now I'm down 10 pounds I can't handle the 495 anymore right that's just that was a a Brett like I got five plates baby like that's big time but now I lost that way I just you can tell when you're not as heavy you don't have the mechanical advantage maybe of the extra fluid that's there and everything else but if you go up to that weight let's say your new 8250 pounds and you hold that for four months right and you're pushing 495 on your squats for four months right this is old hat for you baby this is you could do this you know you got this right so then when you dropped down and you're 242 you're like I'm still doing 495 yeah I own this bitch she's fine right we're going to town baby you must be I'm taking you for a ride that's how it's coming to work and you hold on to that because psychologically you know you can do that it's not like this is new found territory right so I think the satellite cells play a role there may be some epigenetic things that's the other mechanism but there's this neurological mechanism I think the muscle memory phenomenon where you come back and grow muscle more quickly after having lost it is partially because it's like learning how to ride a bike you know how to train already you know how to create that stimulus that reduces the you know you should not learning this for the first time yeah I actually had it real I had a question on that I had a question yeah me yeah yeah yeah you in the first row so let me ask you this so it and it had to do with with the muscle memory effect so let's say you get to a certain size you hold that size extended period of time then for whatever reason you know you go through life changes you stop training and eating you lose size now you downsize are some of those post offices going to close or are they going to stay there basically supporting that infrastructure to bring people back in to town and you know it be easier to is that part of it do you think what do you think happens to those satellite cells that's that's what the animal research shows is that they persist for months or years years even huh yeah so there's a study that came out um I forget his name he was on came on the podcast that they recently published some of this stuff they're looking cross sectionally see if there's a the difference in satellite cell density amongst sat steroid users or advanced trainees yeah and I don't there was really nothing that was clearly evident you know but the the animal and if you take a year in an a rat life you know that's like X number of years in human life the rats might live to be two or three right yeah so that's like decades in human time but those satellite cells after training will stay so the satellite the muscle cell satellite cell density will actually go up the muscle will shrink but the satellite cells are there so they're ready to go to town so let's say you know got like instead of having a hundred satellite hundred nuclei keep on calling the satellites there's actually nuclei when they're inside the cell and up but you've got a hundred nuclei and then you train and now you've got 115 nuclei yeah then you stop training the detrain you still have 115 nuclei those nuclei then have a lesser relics of load to conduct the protein synthesis um actions that are necessary there in that local area you've got more you know to handle the the load of the post office delivering and organizing and shipping of all the packages and letters it's an easier for each of those each of those nuclei it's one way to look at it right yeah um but that seems and then when you when you take those animals that have detrained and they retrain them they retrain them they retrain more quickly than they originally then it took it originally so that's the demonstration the muscle memory effect which we see they're ready to deliver that mail when the city grows again and it's and you can you can get that increase in saddle and nuclei from when you put at steroids to the mix in the animal models so that's the idea you know that you have an advantage that could be very long standing you used gear for five years you know and then let's say you stop training the effect of gear on the saddleite cells you know itself could mean you have a muscle memory effect that you wouldn't have had otherwise yeah um it could be because the gear in of itself does that or the gear just lets you allow you to get bigger when you get bigger you get more saddleite cells probably a little both but the gear would give you more saddleite cells and then give you an unfair advantage just in general because the more saddleite cells you have there were nuclei you have the better off you are in terms of muscle growth and muscle size generally speaking you gotta misleptia with us IPv4 the tell you well let's do what's up welcome so so that's that's the deal I think I think that that I think psychologically it's really important you know people's I'm getting you know a lot of guys will have this tendency to want to maintain their volume when they're dieting down and maybe drop the loads and let's just like I'll just do an extra set this sort of mentality the way I've always thought seems to work better is you don't have their cover abilities but if you can rest longer and be as focused as possible and maintain your loads your training loads get the same number of reps or close to it with the same weights you're going to hold on to that and the research shows in general you can prevent detraining with a lesser frequency and lesser volume is to be regardless of the exercise adaptation it's easier to maintain than to gain basically so that makes me the saddleite's pretty cool you know that's a it's a pretty cool phenomenon I like to that's I think I like the male analogy the post office analogy yeah that's the one it seems to work really well to explain this phenomenon so yeah muscle cells are very unique because they're so giant they're mono nuclear they're they're probably nuclear not mono nuclear like many cells are said like you know standard cell from biology class has got one nucleus and it's nucleolus and blah blah blah the organelles the muscle cells have saddleite have nuclei over the place he's as to three times got a male into as a good fat burner oh yeah actually that's the thing so I first time I use melanin 10 too I just like tired of going to the tanning bed I feel this is probably better in terms of skin tan skin cancer risk et cetera and I'm like I have to use it for like just a few days and I'm like first I could tell my appetite was decreased and I'm getting leaner it's not just from getting skin put a post up is on Facebook and Instagram he said he was just a picture of him his head his base he's at the beach and it says remember brown fat looks better than white fat so I was maybe thinking that it's like the melanin obviously makes you brown I think there's some some outward possibility that can might use melanin I don't know oh yeah so he's a melanin brother yeah I'm just joking yeah he's a I'm surprised he doesn't have his own company for bulletin skip small and I know already she said yeah skip tanning you know yeah yeah it's going away of doing it whatever so that kind of helps with your look obviously that's why people you know but protein or whatever on when you want stage but and the animal research shows that so melanin binds the melanin court and four receptor in the brain it does turn on the sympathetic nervous system and he ever's appetite it has an anorexic effect in rats so it's you know in certain ways like it's a really it's a visit right so it's not prescribable I think it's kind of like very illegal in Australia actually well yeah it'd be problem but they're really strict on so many things yeah they are for a probe but dieting down bodybuilder it's kind of a lot of potential advantages because it keeps your appetite at bay it increases your metabolism you don't have to go in the tanning bed or go outside so it helps it's it was developed to reduce the risk of skin cancer so you're you have that melanin in your skin which would would absorb the UV radiation as opposed to getting into the nuclei yourselves and creating a mutation that causes skin cancer so it's an anti-cancer drug as it was developed for and then it helps with sex drive and erectile function right which tends to go the way side when you're four weeks out from a show so it helps you know if you've got a partner and just I mean let's put it this way like I'd rather be horny than not horny even I don't have a partner it just feels better to have a normal sex drive you feel more alive yeah at least I do you know so it has that effect so it's got lots of positives can documented I think that melanin when he was living at altitude may have contributed to high hematocrate for him polythemia yeah yeah yeah that's right so that's a negative I found like one really kind of obscure reference in the literature that that could possibly have because I was looking and I wanted to help can figure that out way back when so there's that possible possible issue but yeah melanin it's not known for that but I'm just like how can you not tell like the you know the people getting this spontaneous boners that last grade hours and like prifism is a risk factor it's like a prop and negative side effect that you got to go to the hospital because you you had a reaction thing yeah it's like that it's like oh that's cool it's like no that's not cool it's not cool when when it's been eight hours right you're like oh shit it's not a very safe thing but it I can't I just really surprised that people aren't noticing it's like this is inhibiting my appetite and I'm dropping weight and I look leaner I literally felt like I'm getting leaner like I could like this is I can just see this in the mirror and it wasn't just the skin getting darker so yeah it has but that's probably highly variable you know I haven't seen the um looked in the genetics that I don't think it's been studied in humans but just like with every drug variable if that some people you know claim GH is the pro maker drug right and some people don't get deadly from it you know that could be numerous reasons but in a time I never used yeah anytime I never used melanin I was dieting for a show anyway so it's it's impossible for me to tell like oh I didn't I can tell you this it's not like adding clan I can tell you that now you know I mean it's not like adding T3 those things for sure there's no question like oh yeah now I see a massive change melanin did it add to it I'm not going to say that it didn't but I think that I could have still gotten just as lean regardless I see a massive change in me personally yeah it was like what the fuck I was even so I'm like okay what's going on here yeah like why like this is just badass it's like I was just like you know I jumped three four three weeks forward in like three days wow just something like I remember it was like within a week I'm not sure if it was three days the first yeah now I kind of expected but I was like I remember thinking okay I'm imagining this like let's give this another shot right and it may have been to some degree maybe I was eating less I don't know that I at that point in time I first I used to count on my calories right anything down and then I've been the last decade or so after 15 years of competing whatever I'm like I don't I think you kind of wing this a little bit you know use my it does change your appetites you're gonna have to regulate differently if you're just going by appetite and feel but then I'm like okay I'm gonna look into this stuff a little more deeply and see what I can find on the Malena court and system and it does I mean like one thing that I think I've seen mentioned that does make sense so this is sort of a so vestigial system in humans so it's Malena site stimulating hormone is what it's an analog of and Malena site stimulating hormone of course stimulates Malena in production in the malena site so that's why you get a brown skin and there's just the thing that occurred to me immediately was people tend to eat last or at many people do when it's warmer right yep and it makes sense just from a thermal regulatory standpoint to eat less have less body fat because body fat is insulating if you live in a warm environment yeah I'm wondering if there's some evolutionary correlates or coal evolved systems of of appetite regulation with the Malena and Malena court and system that we're tapping into with this drug because it makes you brown protects you against a hot sunny environment and protects you against adipose which would be counter it wouldn't be helpful for a thermal regulation and hot environment so it you know it's it does some pretty cool things body building wise so but watch your madacrit you know it's kind I'm sold if I were to use it again I would want to try the nasal spray version of it yeah I'm terrible for remembering to take shots like I just I forget so I yeah I thought about it I know that the amino site that she'll not be mentioned that I don't use code think at that they they I think they have the nasal version of it I saw Carl and Nor saying the other day that he started Malena 10 up nasal spray version he said something about it improving plaque something like that I don't know how biogled with the nasal version is I mean just Malena 10 in general was beneficial for like part plaque so I don't know I have to have to see that yeah the thing like obviously the the side effects you know the flushing that you get is just nasty yeah that's really that's why stopped I yeah I I'll two things I noticed got so I think it literally though like I had epigenetic changes from it Irish a lot of Irish in me right and I always would burn yeah I'd always burn always burn and I used it like a lot of it for a couple couple three years three or four years and after that I stopped and then I was just tan from then forward and I just tan I tan a lot faster I think a decade later now I think I'm back to where I was but for years after that I would just get like a golden brown color instead of turning red so there was that but also I got real sensitive to that flushing in the nausea and even at like a megalic or tiny dose yeah it got worse over after having used a lot of it that couldn't get used to it again I tried to get used again and I just get real sick feeling and I'd say okay I'll take you in a smaller dose a smaller dose and I was taking my next to nothing and I'd still feel it and could never get used to it after that so I I said I'm going to bend it for now but I've never heard that before because for most people there's a tacky fil axis that flushing goes away pretty rapidly yeah and it always has yeah and then okay that's interesting I wonder maybe that site which can't be named has like the most potent version of that stuff maybe it does I didn't get it from them though this is years back so yeah that's interesting because that's the thing is like people if you use it for three or four or five days in a row you don't even notice in anymore like there's like oh yeah did I okay I can barely tell that I did my dose then you take three days off it's like you're starting all over again it's just nasty yeah it reverses you adapt and then then that that reverses rapidly and most people from the animal research what I could find too is that although you'd expect with that tacky fil axis so that at it sort of adaptation that it wouldn't work as well in terms of the other positive benefits things were looking forward but it seems to persist in animals oh but that's animals are not human so that you know could be different maybe that there's something about my genetics I don't know it could be yeah yeah anyway just it is an interesting very super interesting compound but yeah I think it's totally underrated as of fat loss agents maybe I'll give it a go again see what I get I get use of tan anyway stay in the basement they long on the podcast right all right let's wrap this thing up guys we appreciate everybody who's being in hanging out with us um gets guts booked right the book yeah if you're looking at it you also be why it will be be coach dot com and yeah man it's it literally is take you through your off season actually to start to start out basically help to figure out what you want to do in your off season set those goals achieve those goals into your contest prep through your contest prep and literally take you to the day of water changes in getting on stage and then after that post contest it covers like basically just it was a big brain dump this is a one hour or two hours show we do that's like everything you get all of Scott's knowledge in one place yeah and yeah check it out guys yeah and of course trunutrition.com use our code think over there supplement source dot c8 for Canadians and Scott this is uh this is awesome man this is a fun topic and I think that people enjoyed it if you guys enjoyed this then definitely you know leave us a like comment share it with your friends and if you haven't subscribed guys if you haven't subscribed you watch this whole thing you should definitely hit that and hit the bell so we appreciate you guys thank you Scott cool happy Sunday on yours all right

almost all of the room was over scripted as the most common question that he was good the ponytail flip on stage of the lapio's haird me you know that was fun that was it that was the only moment on stage right was going down yeah that was listen that was real again everybody thinks all the stuff at the press conference you guys put it up to that's not all this is all that's us real the pony here the flip on stage so that's that's the stage so it's kind and full I think I had before the press conference have been going around signing Mr. Olympia yes that's it was yeah that's just respect for out of care else it I'm old school you don't sign you don't sign you don't sign a title you haven't heard okay welcome to it's just body building I'm big round parlor I got my co-host dusty handshaw Scott the producer McNally is running stuff right now because we got two special guests these two guys I'm not even gonna rattle off everything I'm just gonna say Hall of Famers and legends obviously we got Sean Ray in the House fellow mutant thanks for being here buddy adding the color yes and Bob Chickarello the voice of bodybuilding what's up hey man it's good to see you again and is it safe to say that you're kind of you know part of the mutant family a little bit we talk about this at all officially yes V-Chim have come to terms are they were very difficult long and drawn out but the negotiations we've put together at the I am I officially part of the mutant nation by front I'm glad that your PR people could I could work out an extensive contract with Jimmy's he's a he's a tough cookie to deal with this guy he promised to enroll me in these cigar the month club and that was enough for me okay there we are there we go so it's great to have you guys on obviously you guys I mean how many Arnold's have you been to Sean this is my 36 consecutive year so the because it was originally when Gospari wanted it was called the world wasn't 1888 88 it was the world yes and that was not the spark that was my Christian my Christian one that and then Gospari won the first 1989 Arnold's yeah okay and then you came along in 90 then you came back in 91 and you shot everybody up I shot him up yeah I've never been going we'll talk about 90 because everybody knows 90 was a precursor it was an advertisement for 91 so it was bittersweet yeah but I was glad to be a part of the history yeah right the one and only time they tested and the one and only time I failed there you go so it's safe to say Sean came up a little short yeah you know I only failed the drug test I take that was a necessary part of my journey yeah because it made me pause and then appreciate because I could have went south yeah yeah I put my entire year you'd be like the Texas or something yeah I could have went down to Georgia but I could have went the other way because that was a full-year training you know how expensive it is getting ready for a show especially back then and I thought my career was hanging in the balance and I didn't know what was going to be in front of me but I did know a few months later five months later they were going to do it all again in September after Mr. Olympia yeah Chicago and I rolled the dice I went in and I got third place I remember I was telling you did all I run listen you spent the next 12 years in a top five in the Olympic all for the title so they were about to just find I I was telling Sean earlier I I had to remind him I said you know I started training in 1990 and so the year Leigh Hayney was my first Mr. Olympia and Sean Ray was was my first Arnold Classic champion you know and I had pictures of him on my binder in high school and pictures of all the champs you know I had pictures of him too from the from the teenage nationals that we could be to that as he beat my ass for the title which I'm so pissed about that's the day no politics like like pictures of the world we're reunited we feel so good that's the reason Bob still trains that's why that's why the Georgia by the way that's the guy got hooked on that one ever but 1985 I'll never let you forget nineteen eighty five teen the issues that's all far back we got he was so but hurt that he moved to Georgia to 30 years life right that's funny no it's it's it's it's good memories those early days you know I remember that 1990 Olympia I remember cutting all the pictures out of flex you know as Hayney the broader Ray fourth was Christian Mike Christian was he fourth I think in Olympia yeah you know no fifth maybe he was up in that groove which just far as it's a fifth place Tiger remind that fourth place was it Ben Fato oh damn I'd have to like refresh my memory title yeah no when we're talking 90 90 drug tested oh drug test the Arnold or the Olympia yeah yeah Yeah, you're talking my limpio. Yeah, so we're getting no, I mean third place We gotta bring it up. I'm gonna bring it up to phone now. We're good. Yeah, no Third place in 1990. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah So we want you got the top three. Why is it fifth? Who the hell was in fourth? Well, yeah, would you try it on me? My Christian. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I remember the first time I saw you Bob you were training with Tom Oh yeah, yeah, go on to bed. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I remember the first time I saw you I was down there with my friend from Australia who qualified for the oh and and you we were all the jam and you guys were talking to us and and I Remember just thinking like oh shit. This is Bob and Tom Tom was a monster So here's a here's a great Tom print story for you guys right this was Tom He was so quirky, but I loved him to death, right? We're training once right I moved to California we became training partners. We're at Glitz gym training All right, we're doing some shoulders whatever right we get to the last exercise and some kid was on the machine that we water Right he's so many he got kids off to start so Tom says I know problem right he grabs his gym back and he He starts walking right so I'm like all right my guess were done right it was like the last exercise He starts walking towards the back door. You can park in the back at that time So I'm like I want I think we're done we're gonna go to the firehouse and get a bot ball, right? I go out the door We get in this car He starts driving the opposite way. I'm like what else he going to world we drove the world's gym can't make this shit up We drove the world's gym went in That on this piece of equipment to finish our arts our set 3 more sets do Who does this oh it's like 10 boxes? Yeah, I mean it was but then we went to the firehouse and got a bot ball, but he was correct. I'm like I had no idea where do you mean I thought we were done You know that is why his legs looked the way they looked He was let me tell you something about Tommy he was ungodly strong Yeah, he could put I would never believe this I'm the Smith machine he could put five plates in each side right we're doing like in client chest and start from the bottom Like that's what we used to freak me out as I could never do that I am too long you know it is yeah, yeah You gotta start at the top kind of feel your way You know he would start at the bottom. I don't even know how you can do it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'd tell him with something else Yeah, that was such a great era You know that whole 90s era into the early 2000s it was all the same guys You know like that was like that crew that just cool was mixture had the battle for the Olympia Yeah, and the battle for the Olympia tapes he'd take you behind the curtain kind Yeah, because a lot of guys were flossed with their cars, but it's time you kind of got a little bit of their lifestyle Yeah, which we never saw before it's you who started that and then we also got a little sneak peek of like what they look like a week or 10 days or two weeks before This is the original raw footage Yeah, it was that was not staged that was who we were Sure you had it perfectly like you literally we both went to the 87 Nationals, okay? He won I I was it was in the top five but Phil Hill won my category John went on to the pros right now that but I still think the greatest era body-building all things considered of competition was 89 to 99 And it's hard to beat right the 90s were good to of course, but 89 to 99 Yeah, it was a very difficult time very good caliber right you could even make a case for indian 90s to some degree But you know that 87 Nationals Atlantic City man was loaded Yeah, but you did remind me of When the class that you were in tell me the guys names and the That national so I got I got that got tons of stories right, but stuff But I'll give you a brief one no cuz it ties in right 87 Nationals we're gonna go to the nationals It's in the Atlantic City New Jersey at the time I'm in the service academy all right to be a sheriff deputy sheriff I couldn't get out early the whole thing anyways I ended up leaving on Friday at Four o'clock when I got out of the academy to get to Atlantic City right amount of plane I got the the show's going on So when I get there right I could miss my class. I could have already finished. I had no I this is my debut right for the nationals Shard was in the light heavies. I get there. I rush back to think out the middle weights were like on stage when I got there Right plenty of time right to prepare prepared Yeah, so I make my way to the back and then they had like a little locker room type taking a pack The first guy I see is Phil Hill and I'm like well, there goes this show This guy was an animal. Yeah, I'll never forget I could see it this clear as it was yesterday He was standing there. He had a pair of blue trunks on and he had some Nike hype I have something like any standing real wide now. He was putting like oil on something like that I just look at I go what the hell like what who is this guy? Right came from the AAU. Yeah came from the AAU nobody heard of him All right, nobody's beating this guy. So we get to the heavyweight class There's Matt Mendenhall. I saw him there right but he was a mess at that point, but God bless him We've lost half these people unfortunately. I see Phil Hill choice. Look a lot of Duke the Nuff Didn't lose Phil Hill recently. I don't know there was some special reason Oh, I don't know whether he died or not, but I can't get any confirmation, but Phil Hill Got any peri dodech Where's around at the time choice of a lot of choice of a lot of Johnny Ray Kinsey myself Remember Joe me because this is like the inclusion of the AAU guys, right James the mellow Who else was there from the Glen Caner? Right is well like a you they all kind of came over to the 3NPC at that time, but this show was loaded Now I'll give you one more brief one. I don't want to take about a time in 1987, but here's the stuff you didn't see okay We get backstage they pose like the top Eight guys are something like that back then somewhere number right, but I'm dead last in the order because I couldn't get there until later We had made provisions with Jim hanging into the things so I'm like number whatever the last is I'm last right the final two guys in the show was Phil Hill and me This is classic We get backstage right that they got the top guys were gonna do your posing routine right Phil Hill goes out there and I hear my music Oh Right and I'm like wait a minute Please tell me they just didn't put mine in and it's a weird you know, it's a it's a German it's a Barbara Strasse and song right Oh, yeah, nobody in the world would ever have this song right I hear my music I go over to the gut the music guy the time they got a tape Right that's 1987 and I go hey man, did you put my music in it? It's what number I go like to 48 whatever he goes. No, I got yours right there He just happened this guy's gonna win the show. He's bringing the house down that's a standing over it I can't go out there to the same song But you just put on back in black and get it Where come by we're each gonna be pulling by right and I'm like I go bro I got the same song. He's like sucks to be you He's I just give me something else He's like when are you talking up bro? You got to bring your music. I'm gonna get Paul and Spotify. There's just you can't make this you can make this shit up I go to him and I go I got the same music. I can't follow this guy with the same music right He's gonna win all these colors I tell the guy go hey you guys played a song that was like that, you know like the in between music They're in the intermission or something and I'm home in a tool. No, I kind of want to just Yeah, that's all right We got it. I want out if you watch it tape today 87 nationals heavy weights there was a little supers back that the song I post to I didn't even know what it was for years for 10 years I never knew what it was I post to whatever he put on That's hilarious and of course Phil Hill won the show but This guy be hit for the overall so there was the beginning of sugar shawn Ray Right, that's what it all started That's funny so you're driving home going Damned I didn't even see that light heavyweight Well, I knew well we knew each other for you to each other be So he beat me in 85 with the team that he beats me at the 87 and I'm like After that it was just a short 12 years toy to a pro The same year I retired yeah, and then he retired in 2000 when I'd fund me one of the USA We got the band back together took us this long to get back together No, we're too good at offer for the all you can eat buffet. Yes, that's that's it. It's funny to have you guys both sitting here You know on mutant now with us and You know they're wealth and knowledge and he's guys So it's a five to class and 65 Yeah, we're so we're the face of it the same age. He's he's a little bit older than me four months older four months older But we still have to sign going nobody can figure out the Olympic because yeah, we're so we're 58 Okay, but the Olympia celebrating at 60th anniversary Which started in with which started in 1965? Do the math so we're always trying to take weight of it Be right it's a well, there's no years zero right that that yeah, yeah, here's the mystery is like you guys Why didn't I who built the pyramids? How do life began other stuff yeah? The Niagara folks? What's up with that right? There's no years zero. Okay, so even though we were born in 65 You're not one until 66 Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah That's the whole annual versus right that hoping but I don't know well we still think we have we're turning 59 And the Olympus turning 60 in the same it's already in 1965 Yeah, so we're all stuck on trivia. We don't know. I know no you guys have been around for the whole thing Yeah, we would what do you when it comes to what you do now Bob the voice of bodybuilding? How did that happen like how did you get into the MCing? How did you wind up? Did you just one day look down and you're like I'm wearing a sequence jacket and there's the Olympia and what am I doing here? No listen I had the stuff liberal. I had to kind of fight my way into the Olympia and back then Robin Chang was putting it out in weater was still around right now That and I was a weater athlete. That was on board now that I had done MC work in local shows So you know it as you've done it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, right and I'm here to correct him. I was making people people got short memories The show was a mess back then when it came to that type of stuff They tried celebrity MCs Triple H Triple H was okay because he loved bodybuilding But they had my family up there got plus mic because we did work with the gladiators Years ago later, but he didn't know bodybuilding. It's sinbed out there Dana Carvey right they had all these celebrities I thought about that and you run you know this cuz you've ever seen a lot of shows They don't know the industry they don't know the business. They don't know nothing so they will local show will have a radio DJ right Oh, the always the worst guy by the radio guy because he never knows what to shut up Because they think they're on the radio. Okay, everybody Wait, you know how about that? I wanted to binge and get some water. Just yeah, you know the dumbest question I'm here to check his memory go ahead Bob I'm listening. I think it's a Robin chain. He was doing it. I'm begging him begging him bro. I can do this coach put me in right? He finally says I listen. I'm gonna give you a shot Do the press conference right right right so me and Triple H did the press conference had a lot of fun doing that stuff at all that I did that for a year or two. I can't remember what it was and then he finally gave me my shot And me and Sean once again. We've been connected for years right help the behind this I had done it the year before Bob arrived I said I need help because I couldn't get my hands around so I could grab it. It was it wasn't in my wheelhouse But I wanted to do it. Yeah, it was a bucket list thing I MC the Olympia then we started talking about Bob well I had brought Bob and Dan when they did pro body building weekly I showed the OG body building My cat they were doing the they were doing pro body building weekly You still listen to every single I took these guys out of the cutter and I put him on my stage I put him on my stage So I had them do their radio show on stage as MCs at my contest in 2006 so yes for Colorado and it looked I loved it right and I could see clearly they can carry the show That's when I was lobbying for some help when Bob came up I literally I disappeared in his shadow on stage as we comb and see the Olympia and that's where I go You look a black we think about really look a black reference on your machado I kicked you I kicked you into this industry racist I did it on my stage Just one of the answer and my show we don't need to be here. That's it. I'm sorry you I didn't know how it got so I came into this I do in the press conference. I bring Danons and we could kind of Combined to do a pro body building weekly ask yes Press conference which was great. It was very good We pumped up you know the old press conferences were boring as boring could be Wayne D'Avillien They're talking stupid right now But so we changed up the whole format was way better than Like chances I got kind of promoted And he says okay listen you and Sean are gonna do the Olympia right by great You know finally we get to kind of do our stick and we did we did that for two years And then they just decided to make a change with that We didn't really know I wound up leaving weater from muscle The bell of the truck I left when I left for muscle development the redhead and stepchild I couldn't do both with weater because we are on the Olympia Yeah, but I was glad to step aside because it's a lot of work and that was what he does Yeah, I was I was endorsing Bob from day one. It wasn't so sure. Yeah, you know, Sean You know, he's like that's your guy. He's the he's got the voice. You know the whole thing, but and that's potentially the whole thing Started with the you know the voice of body building, you know, oh you're the guy with the voice The previous thing is no matter where I go for some of the reason people think Like they'll look like I'll be saying something at restaurants and I'll see somebody will be like Hey, you're doing what you're the you're the Libby a guy. I'm gonna get it's dead your real voice What did you think it was right? I think they think it's like a rap. No. Hey everybody You know a strip club DJ KSUX over here everybody that's a dangerous is a B WIFBB but yeah, they think it's it's like not all that's your real voice. Oh my yeah, that's Nobody sounds like that. Yes, like I speak like that at home. I got it. I got his gentleman kids at the table. How are you ready to eat? I got it. I got to ask you a question you mentioned the press conference and I used to go to the press conference at the Yo when when I before I came with mutant I I went myself every year as a fan So I would go to the press conference. I'd go to the meeting greet all that stuff like get tickets for the show You know and I started going to the own 2002 so I saw the triple H stuff. I saw you I saw all those Yeah, you can't Yeah, yeah, so so I remember having a vodka OJ with triple H at the bar one night like just randomly I was like I'm having a drink with triple H. I can believe it and But I I got to ask you There's been some moments where there's been some tense some what appeared to be real tension at the press conference Like what can be all the insights? Yeah, what's what what to you is like the most volatile thing that you kind of had to deal with Did you ever have to kind of oh I got to make sure nothing happens here if you ever had anything like that happen? It's actually the complete opposite for years You're in it's like pulling teeth to get these guys to say anything because the most boring thing in the world for any of us as fans Right, it's the go somewhere and here's something to say well I'm just here to bring my best package and do the best right can do it. No, you know I'm not really a competition anybody else People are falling asleep, man. This is ether. I'm like guys So yeah, you should have to do like a pup talk backstage To get people to it's like look at we're selling tickets. It's still a show, right? Okay, it can't be don't get me the only one just here to do the best my pack. It's my pack I've heard my pack it so many times I want to get FedEx on as a as a sponsor today event But it's like look at nobody cares about that stuff, okay? Yeah, so you know I would do enough to get people to kind of come on with but we had some great characters back then too Melbourne Anthony Even NASA Quincy marvelous Meldo typeic Molly Yeah, he can his only my bio buddy my mama look buddy king. You know he always bought a crank tightest right We had all these characters which was entertaining as a was he didn't have to do a lot But all those moments are really nothing was ever scripted it's the most common question that I always get the ponytail flip on stage It'd be lepious cared me You know that was fun that was it that was the only moment on stage where I was gonna go down Yeah, that was listen that was real again Everybody thinks all the stuff at the press kind of for that you guys put it up to dancing No, no, listen all that stuff's real the pony here the flip on stage That's that's the stage so it's Kai and Phil and I think Kai at before the press conference have been going around signing Mr. Olympia Yes, that's that's what he was doing Yeah, that's just respect for I don't care else and I'm old school You don't sign you don't sign a title you haven't heard right even now not to not to derail you from this I've never satian, but I got a real pet peeve that even today with people using the title if you want the men's physique Olympia you're not Mr. Olympia right if you're Sean Clarita got blessing me's one of our own right He's not Mr. Olympia not the title. Yes, I'm a title Yeah, right it's a very specific title and people like Sean should take a fence at that because he was fighting for this title Should I had one by the way? I've never signed Mr. Olympia And you don't ever you don't sign you need to a title you didn't earn I got to do that so he had every right to be pissed off at Kai Well Phil had heard that Kai was doing that and any visually saw that he was doing it at the press conference They were going back and forth over that and I think Phil was really fired up and carried over to the pre-judging Prejudging this he was calling out the comparisons and Kai Green had flipped his pony tail this on YouTube You gotta go to you what year was that? 2013 There on YouTube anyway Kai flips his pony tail hits Phil with it 14 Then they start elbowing each other and it was on I thought it was going down No, it's a he couldn't have been going down because if you watched a video back before the pony tail flip I think he got it like an elbow in the one but you can see Phil kind of laughed it off Okay, buddy There we go. The pony tail was kind of like the last straw type of thing and that's what feels like man people got to remember That's like that's a big heavy long I Smack you know he's he's but he was trying to get in the full's head the problem with Phil's you can't get in his head the guy played D1 basketball He's used to trash talking on this You're not gonna get in the was head if anything it backfire it on Kai But I think the best moment of any press conference and everything's it was scripted and it was absolutely not Was when I asked Kai give me three reasons why you'd be Go Well, you know, and any started you started some Kai answer well, you know the let's see Give me three hands greasiness That's a beautiful day. It's a Kai. Hey, hey, hey, no, you know ready everybody Any finally good. I love a 40 pounds heavier. I got to blah blah blah Okay, Phil give me three reasons why you'd be kind and without hesitation he goes 2011 2000 12 2013 Both my drop And my taste goes This was not drifted I didn't give this to Phil but great time We had done enough in it, you know stuff that you're on the same page and the second I asked him He knew exactly where I was going and he delivered on the spot the place when absolutely nuts Yeah, and the Russ is history. I don't think we've ever seen that kind of back and forth in a press conference No, the energy's not there. I don't think the guys are even in the right head space. Oh, they're too nice Yeah, they're too nice I think fans used to be able to ask questions and they don't know do we need another great Like wider line vicious rivalry do we need another one? I mean over a great sport right we got burden magic You get right there's all kinds of you know It's nice to have all Ian Frazier. I mean any great sport has a rival rig and then we go up this peaks and values good years and bad years But I don't know I don't even know if that we need the press conference if the fans aren't gonna be involved right I think the fans that's your chance to ask what you have it's gonna make a fun to me He's got it making a problem. Remember Jose. I mean he always had great Jose can you see we have a lot of there's too many divisions to be represented You know you got the wheelchair you got the wellness some of these people don't be English Right, so you lose a lot that's lost in translation I think we got to figure out what we're doing with the press conference I would love to completely revise it. It was up to me. I'm out part of the Olympia Committing so to say it all that but I would literally turn it more like into a talk show format I didn't have like the tonight show desktop there with the mug with the Olympia logo And I was bringing them out of smaller groups because when you bring out 35 people if you've noticed We all the people are falling asleep They got it chair and then a couch for the people that are ready for them Just like this Let's bring out our wellness The show now I bring the champ out maybe his wife or then you maybe the street or four of them Maybe you got that friends type of set up we got the tools behind so you got there's like six of them Right you know But you could get to who you got a good to specifically clear for go to commercial Right come back with the next one bring out the next crew So so you'd have to you know you'd have to make some choices as to who you're gonna have to talk I got the top guy You could do just as many because you're just bringing them in smaller groups. Yeah, yeah, we're always not falling asleep up there And they're in their chicken, you know a main trend of staying away girls got here and make up You know guys The great is up state it out the girls hate it The girls hate it. They've always hated it. We actually got rid of it for a couple years because we've actually put it to vote For the girls and all of them are like no, we don't want what the guys do this stuff They got here. They got makeup. They got tanning to do they got all these They don't want to be up there talking. They're not gonna talk trash Yeah, I like to format the Bob talk about I think it interject some new energy new life into it I mean, what did you could have the new guys come out right what for Keenie Chicks gonna talk trash Yeah, let me tell you something about this about here Look you got better go here going down who did your hair? Look how the hair was said it's too tone doesn't even match I can see it's too tone See you, I tell this is actually a thing She had too tone hair here. It's the ground sucks. Yeah, you're in the army. What did this? This is not gonna happen? Right, yeah, I'd already create a rivalry like that, right? Yeah, but yeah, you know I would read I would redesign it. I would actually get rid of it from where it is right now And I would put it at the meaty Olympians. Yeah, so here's a question for you. It comes down to rivals You had a very long career at the very top Who would be you say your most vicious rival? I mean, you got to go down to hold top five because you had to get ready for flex How do you ready for Dorian? You had to deal with Kevin? I mean, Nasser, I There are all rivals and we all took turns moving up and down behind Dorian, right? Dorian was the benchmark, so we really couldn't look at beating Dorian. It was like who? If I can be Kevin I can have a shot at Dorian if I can be flex I can have a shot at Dorian So I don't think we were rivals because we were all friends. Yeah, I trained with flex. I knew Kevin The only one we didn't know was Dorian, so when I realized I was off I'm cheering for flex, so I'm cheering for Kevin trying to bring that title back to America none of us like Dorian Dorian wanted nothing to do with us. We were all prima donas in his eyes Right, we didn't like seeing a striving around a nice car or hanging out in muscle beat He didn't like eating that cow one. It's a big part of what drove him. Yeah, yeah It's like being that mind you're like Mr. T and Rocky, right? He's he's lifting in a dungeon That's called a dungeon, right? Yeah, there's no light that gets in there right? You're in the UK to miserable all the time, right? Yeah, and that's just this guy was Was it his fuel he was mean potatoes He didn't want to do like interviews in the Hollywood stuff, but Kevin and Flex and Chris We kind of all looked at each other and we wanted to kind of how do each other We were every time you saw battle for the Olympias someone pulled up in a different car Right, yeah, yeah, you saw the rims Oh, I got those rims We're competing with each other and then there was Dorian So we were all rivals. I don't think we could put one guy ahead of the other because if I focused on flex His track record wasn't really good in the Olympia was going up and down And then here's Kevin with four first runner ups, right? And then Jay comes along and screws everything up for us So I thought you would shoot stuff up his legit you should have beaten Dorian Well, it was a 95 but that was a 94 That was a nice argument which was your best thing you thought I thought 94 was a good guy I think it was a 94 only because again like Jay Jay says he didn't beat Ronnie He caught Ronnie when it was off. I thought I caught Dorian when it was off forget about his eyes But there were things that we can criticize about right? I only got criticized for being short and small Right, but nobody was criticizing my physique. Yeah, that was it so that's kind of where I came from which is why Lebrada was so successful Which is why Muhammad been a Ziza in Muhammad Macnaway So you couldn't criticize them other than the fact that they were small. What do you guys think about? And you get a real good looking this You're the clear the best scene in the house. So I feel like in the last few years We've started seeing more than ever champs getting beat Yeah, and Like this night. Yeah, that's like last night and dusty and I have talked about how we think this is really good For bodybuilding generally I wish that was like that in the 90s. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know How do you how do you you think there was actually a conscious change to like make sure you don't Back up back up change comes when people change. Yes that that Wesley guy was a little jitter right last night Yeah, yeah, and pre-judging I thought this guy's probably gonna win I'm glad they actually did it. Yeah, because no one complained about the victory right when they come when they complain about a champion winning That's when we have a problem that change happened because he improved so dramatically Yeah, Raymond Dino kind of looked the same but Wesley made improvements and he got rewarded so we got to applaud that Do you think there used to be sort of that? Got a knockout to champ mentality and that has somehow been like you know what that's not good for things Oh listen it was horrible for the sport for years. You've also respected the champs whatever You don't have to knock out the champ you got to begin by one point. Yes, I've always hated it knock out the champ thing I think this is bodybuilding you got to present a better physique After touches what I think what I don't like is there was a stretch of time that the judges would just vote for the incumbent Didn't matter. It didn't really seem the matter like Thorian. It was a great example I'll do respect the Dorian again. They'll see you're in most of his titles, but it's not his fault He's not judging them solve but when you had a physique just let's use you as an example All right because you're right here. So I got to talk nice about you Well, but wasn't Sean's energy leaving out arguably at his best all time which was very formidable, right? And then you had Dorian again little pass got to majories torn by sub-torn a Ways his little blowout little block you looking right Which is the best physique now this should be a no-brainer, but don't give it to the champ This because he's the champ right this is listen You know people used to think this was like you're not scripted, but like like there's politics involved right and I said for years If this is contrived then these are the biggest idiots on this earth He's right. I think it's good for business. They have an eight-time champ, but now let me tell you something no Andrew and Sean want everyone on her. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah Probably gonna win number five. Whoa. That little s***. I mean, you know, I think she's one six seven. Yeah Are nobody's arguing though nobody's arguing that so there are champions that are legitimately Yeah, that girl that won the wellness. What's your name? Well, it's Yaly. I mean, she's a Three-time Olympia champ and our own Arnold champ, but she's great, but listen, but she's beatable She's very good, but man there's some other girls Let's see you talk about Brazil. I mean, they're bringing it that's a crazy division Brazil division they're all from Brazil You got to feel living in the US. Oh, yeah, yeah, they all waited in my book. Of course. Yeah, sure And at five way time for first But I think what you're gonna see around I think the day of the dynasty is over I don't think in our lifetime We're gonna see a seven or eight at nine-time champ. We might see it with Andrea Shaw No, I'm talking men's body It's bodybuilding. Yeah, I'm not cuz this you got Sydney Gillilins got seven she's got no size of slow and down. I think that for me seen Sean Rodin beat Phil Heath. That didn't like that. That was that it was it was still very questionable to me. I still thought it wasn't. It was not his best. But he still beat Sean Rodin my book Sean with all their respect that it departed. It wasn't great physique at all, but lacking in arms, lacking in chest, lacking in his arms were no longer still. It was off. But an off pill was still better than an on rodin in my book. I didn't like that call. I felt like that was the end of the cycle. That was the end of the cycle. The problem was Phil set the table himself because he came in after you're before with the midsection. It wasn't enough to take him out, but Gullie noted, right? When he came back to second year, he got thrown in. It wasn't any better. They weren't going to give him a pass a second time. No. I still think he was better. I still think he beat Rodin heads up front double by from the midsection is distracted. I just think the midsection killed it for him. Again, you can't reward that. That's not improvement. Whereas I thought for Sean, it was the best we've seen. Even though his physique is not genetically superior. Like Wesley last night, he just nailed it at the right time for him. Do you think that with the men's open, you know, because men's open has become what it is. Bodybuilding has become what it is. The seven eight time camp. It's simply not sustainable. Not to mention it's hate. The age, these guys are not young. These are older guys. We're talking about the average. The average mean age has gone up about 10 or almost 12 years. I was telling you, when I was there. In our days, all of the guys were teenage national champions. I mean, the next one with a team champion, Chris Kormier, Jay Cutler, Branch Warren. None of these guys are starting in their teams as champions. The guys starting pro were 20, Shane DeMoro was 19. You were 21. I mean, that was kind of the one at the right. The guys are now 31 more stoning pro. They don't have the long jab. It's a different look, but I don't see anybody on the horizon. Maybe you do, but I don't. They could go on a five six seven eight run. Without the respect the third lunch for great champion. Looks fantastic. But him and how did he go back and forth this year? Yeah, that's the first time it easily being in a eruption. That's right. Yeah, titles up for grabs. And a Samson comes in and he beats both of them. Yeah, that's the big gift. That's brings us to last night. Last night. But it's a two. It's a 48 hour show. So literally what we saw last night does it even count for today. Because if he comes in here dry tonight, Yeah. It kind of changes the end. What did you have? I don't like the two day show. I don't either. I think that's what the one day format. One day, you know, I don't kiss. If hot he comes in a little bit soft, Samson comes in a little bit hard. It changes what happened last night. This is all in Samson's destiny as in his hands. Oh, my. He's got a superior physique. Let's just call it what it is. Better symmetry. Better proportion better shape. Most please. He's he's he's he pounds heavier. Right. Yes. Since for tall. Samson has that classic. Yeah, like freak front relax. Well, he can carry it with all frame with his height. Where's hot is a little bit boxy. The difference if these two came here's this sums it up perfectly. But not boring last night, but if these two came in 100% that on the money for for them, right? Samson win 10 times out of 10. But right now as I've right this minute, hot is winning this show. He could be because the difference is Samson cannot afford. I said this in other interviews before. The Samson comes in in 95% he wins the show. Okay. He doesn't have to be 100% he's got to be 95% you can't lose that much ground because How do you chew, man? He's hard. He's hard. He's got a great muscle. What's facing? He's not bad when it comes to like symmetry, proportion, shape. He's not as good as Samson. He's not, you know, something like this guy's a box, right? He wanted to Olympia for God's sake. Yeah. If Samson comes in a 90% which is about where he was, right? That door is open, how did you pan like with it? But right now, hot is winning the show. I still remember the year that hot he got third won the people's champion. I actually thought he was going to win the whole show. I agreed with you on that one. Yeah, I would have had no problem with it. Everyone's like, wow, he's only 220, 3 and I'm like, well, I told me that. I wouldn't have known. What's the, when's the scale around that stage? Yeah, I think it's actually a bunch of press round. Maybe we'll bring the top of it a little hot. That was the biggest mess. Hot big, really, Lea, brought his arms. Or even Chris Dickerson for that. Yeah. Yeah, it's just a loose. It's no tape measure and stage. This is body building. What you see is what you judge. But I guarantee Samson is doing some dramatic stuff right now because he knows he's trailing. Yeah. So it begs the question. There's what's hot he doing. He can't take his foot off the gas. So he might even be drier or he might overdo it and spill over. I suspect both guys will be drier than they usually are. Well, that's the danger of our sport. This 48 hours show shit is for the birds. These body builders, they're waiting until, what's time with the on stage last night? Nine o'clock? Nine o'clock? Yeah, I'm waiting on it noon. So we're not seeing that's by the 90s. And we won't finish with it until tonight. So there's probably looking at maybe 10 o'clock. Our stage judge was at noon. So all I had time for was basically breakfast. These guys get smoother and smoother as the hours go by. We're not seeing the best of what we can see. And it's a, it is science for these guys. Yeah. Well, what would be, you know, back the, you know, the best seat in the house thing that I was talking about. What would be an example of one of the most dramatic flips you've ever seen at the old. Oh, this was an easy one actually Gustavo. But though I watched go from eighth place to third. And again, we're going to rest in peace. Western people. I don't know. It's because they had said because we've not been a long enough to have to people. They have to people we thought about it. But it is what it is. But Gustavo, but though was an eighth or ninth. And every round he got better and every round they moved them up. And I got to give the judges credit because they take a lot of shit. Yeah. But you got to give credit when it's due. They let him work his way up. They kept calling him out and he recognized like, wait a minute. I think this guy looks a little bit. Nope. Then he did another call. And he had that that was the area that happened third place. That's the most dramatic. The ketchup I've ever eaten. I'm sorry he posed the better. You got somebody but don't get that opportunity. No, they usually go the other way. They go the other way. And then the other guy is trying to come up. But Gustavo did fight for that one. I see more and more guys melting on stage, which is. When I will tell you that which was my last Olympia. Jay Coatner was winning after pre-junction. He was up by six points. Yeah. That was the year Ronnie Coleman, basically said he was on his deathbed. Yeah, but it was ready to go to the hospital and wasn't able to move. I heard he was drinking like a gallon of food. And guess what? At the night show, it looked that way because he couldn't control his midsection. He had hydrated so much that I thought he got smoother, which is why I thought why didn't Jay win the show. Jay should have won a 2,000, one all day. But how did he won that show? It came out later that he failed the diuretic test. It came out later. Yeah, they didn't take the title off. They didn't take the prize. So here I am complaining again because I was fourth place I should have been third. Jay should have been disqualified. But he should have been running in 2001. He should have been running in 2001. Right. What about the opposite? You ever see anybody, you know, you've seen a lot of other shows, not just Limpia, but you ever see anyone where you're like damn. He's got a loser show tonight. Well, here I'll give you one. It's a little bit of controversial, but people like to refer to Victor Martinez as the uncrown 2007 investor Limpia. Yeah, I want the article. No, I'm going to tell you right now. I'm from here to him. I'm the closest guy to these people even more than the judges. I got a better view, not better view, but I could see their condition and all that. When Victor came out, he was kicking ass. I mean, he was dead on the money. He was good. But every round of day he got softer and softer and softer. So is he the uncrown shitty of beaten, you know, that you ever went. Everyone sees that one photo. I mean, listen, he put the front round. He was great, but then he started to spill. And it got worse and worse and worse as he went. Listen, you got to make it through the entire pre judging. So is he the uncrown? No, he's not. I hate to say it. I love Victor. Great bodybuilder right now. That's tough. But he didn't keep it throughout. That's why he lost it. Jay in 2001, I got winning. I mean, you can make a case, you know, unfortunately. And a lot of you just were a lot of different champs. But that's why they played a game. Now, both of you guys have gotten caught heat for telling it like it is. Give it to you. Don't tell the truth. What? I don't tell the truth. The problem is I got never get any heat from anybody. How do you, how do you embrace that? Well, I mean, for me is I sleep well tonight. I don't want to go back in apologize for stuff. I apologize one time with a gun in my head because I told the truth. I said I'll never do that again because that was a bad look. Haven't to go and try to take back something that you really met. You know, if you're a critique, critiquing a bodybuilder and you're giving your opinion, it's just an opinion. I'm not a judge. Right. But having to go back in a apologize because people don't want to hear the truth. That's a tough thing to do. But the context is it's an inclusive sport. And I got to be mindful when I'm critiquing a bodybuilder. They have wives, they have brothers and sisters. They have family and friends and they're paying for the pay for view. Or a lot of money to come and watch. And then they go home and they listen to it. And they hear maybe their hero or their idol. Not giving positive critique. It's just here's what's wrong with this person. I've always used this phrase to guys not ready for prime time. Some people wind up in the Olympia and they don't deserve to be there. Or they blew the opportunity because they knew they weren't going to be very good. So they smooth out and they come in and look in like garbage. Listen though. Hey. So I tell them they look like garbage and then I catch heat. But as I've got an older, a tempered some of my critique because I realize, yeah, they do have family and friends. This is maybe a once in a lifetime opportunity. And if you've got to the Olympia, you qualify to get there. Just a certain respect you got to give the guys. I'm guilty of just calling it like it is sometimes. The times have changed and the problem with today is social media. It's usually a language that turned postseason to everybody. You can't give a critique that's fair and accurate or you're a hate or. Yeah. It's like what do you mean a hate or so I'm just giving you might might. Yeah. You don't even know these guys. We're prepared to give our opinions on what's going on. Yeah. The problem is is now you got to curtail it. And you got to share it. You can't say somebody sucks. Yeah. And if they do, you got to tell them why they look good. The other problem is is you've got, I've reached got 5000 of the closest friends with their Instagram famous. Right. So they're used to people coddling them and tell them how you got screwed man. Yeah. You got that you've got that run that a deal man. It was bullshit. You know what I'm saying? No. No. Listen. He didn't. He got beat. Okay. Is that possible? You can just get beat because somebody was better. Yeah. You got to get screwed all the time. It's politics. The funny thing is when you're about politics is the local. What's the politics there? I think. Even though their names are synced the pros or there's contracts or maybe there's there's things or there's other stuff. This is some NPC show. But these judges are rolling into. All right. So sometimes if you like one guy, then you hate the other guy. Your number forty six four sixteen that that's all they know. They don't know who you are who trains you who doesn't. But the problem is I'm telling you social media is destroyed. This type of thing like this because you have to watch and be mindful. You can critique. But you got to be a little softer. Yeah. I gave a Derek props for Winnie Olympia and then all the hotkeys fans came after me. Because I said, I think Derek should have won. Listen, all the Persians came for me. I took heat. You can't make this up. I took heat and you can, I tell you I can prove this. Do you go to my Instagram? Yeah. And look back after the Olympia. I took heat for a lot of the Iranian fans because I announced. Derek is the one. So they, they wanted to light him up. How dare you? Yeah. How many? What do you think? What do you think? The money guard after the Olympia. I didn't pick it. I just, right. What have you ever been? Have you ever been shocked when you get that piece of paper? Oh yeah. What's the most shocking thing? Like, I know what it's like to MCHL. I assume the Olympia is pretty much the same. They hand you if you can't. If you can't. You don't turn it over. And you look at that top five and you're like, Whoa. Well, I could tell you this in fairness. I think this is a good, it's a great question, Ron. First of all, behind the scenes stuff. Okay, because people don't realize this. I get the results, I don't fear obviously I'm the first guy to get him, right? And I have turned that paper one. Whoa. Okay. Now, I will tell you. And this has happened more than the last. I don't know. I would say 78 years that it has before that. And I got to give credit to, you know, a big Steve Weinberger and the current crop of judges, Tyler Man, because they will call it as they see it. Yeah. I can't tell you, Ron, how many times? I've turned that paper over. See what I've seen, right? Okay, correct. And now we're going through the thing, but I'll look down and I'll sit and I'll get one of these. Yeah, they want to reach that. For a big Steve, right? Or Steve will say, through a close, we're going to re-judge it. And I'll have a sudden wanting to change. And we've got current champions that that has changed. They live on 100,000. It's a level of power. Like at the night show, that like 11 o'clock at night. This is at the night show, right before the finals, again, that's why we had the confirmation round of scoring. And I'm telling you, we've had two or three changes. Yeah. That I was like, oh, okay, you know, that's like, well, hang on, hang on, hang on, hang on. And then I'll get the, if they start coming up with a paper, I know somebody's changing. It's very competitive. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. It wasn't, I applaud that because it shows that the judges are doing their job. Right. It shows that they are paying attention. And the reason that we put the confirmation on in years ago was because when we used to do the pre-judging. Yeah. And then that was kind of it for, like, everybody knew like the night show was this, for show, right? Now that kind of stuff. The problem is, is guys would go out and eat pizza and stuff, right? Because they knew it didn't, it wasn't worth nothing at night. And then they come back all smooth down. Yeah. And then here I am, and I'm not so somebody who goes smooth. How did this guy be, what do you, could he mean? I think they call it. So the fans would go crazy and they finally says, you look at, that's enough. We're going to make the kind of, you know, the night show is going to come for something. Yeah. And it had to be a confirmation round because you can't score. Yeah. The posing round doesn't count for anything. I've been arguing with people for years, but it's like, we're at Derek Lensford post two last year. You want the Olympia? Yeah. I don't know. Give me the song. Yeah. But how amazing is it? He posted a winning song. But how amazing is it that I can remember, like the music for Marnell's horse. Right. Like, you're well, back in the second he said, Phil Hill, I thought a fan of the opera. Yeah. Right. First thing I thought of. You know, stuff like that. There's nothing, there's nothing Taylor with the Terminator. Yeah. There's nothing. There's nothing preventing these guys should do in great routines. We just have a point that we don't have as many that are doing great. Like, right now, we don't have anybody doing the pop-lock instead. Right. For a way of tricky Jackson, we had Maldon. We had a whole bunch of guys. We had King Camali. We had Vince Charles. They're a dazzling Durham Charles. King of the 10,000. Freddy, Freddy, small. Freddy, biggie, small. He tried. Yeah. But all of a sudden, it's like, well, we're kind of in a spawner. We just don't have one. Nobody does anything. No, but it's anything. You can do great routines. You're seeing better routines actually in classic. How about this? Who's the best potty-bullying open-poser? Well, today. I think we're going to see a great routine from Antoine. Antoine? Antoine? Antoine? Antoine's going to have the best routine tonight. Okay. Take it out of tonight. Let's just say last year. Okay. Who was our best-poser last year? Mid-spotty-bullying. We saw all the shows. Doesn't matter. Who's the best-poser? No, it doesn't matter. Logan Franklin. Well, I'm saying, body-build. All the classic guys are better. But in open-body-bullying there wasn't one. You almost couldn't pick a winner because they were all just... They all made them. It was a gasposing routine. Yeah. There were okay. They were great. But right now we just don't have that guy. Yeah. Have you ever looked at... Because I've done this at local shows. And this could be like a state or national show. I could be anything. But I've done this at a few shows where I get the results. And I think this can't be right. Oh, yeah. And I look down the line and I'm like... Number 25 has the quads. There's no way he can change the few of those. And I look down at the judges. And there's been a couple of times where I've just been like... Give me a second and I've gone down. No, no, no, no. Don't check. I remember one time the head judge looked at me. He was like... Yeah. There we go. I can't believe you caught that. And he changed it and they all looked at each other. And they were like, dude. And that's why an MC who knows bodybuilding is so important, right? I've done it. I have literally changed the spots on. It usually happens, especially at the NPC. It's always the same. It's competitor one and two. And there's only two of them. Right? So right. So one and two. I've gotten the results for the winner where I had one number of this athlete. And the name of this athlete. And it was wrong. Yeah, that's true. I've had to take the award back and give it to the... It's still hard. It's so hard. I'm excited. I do a demo that you just said. It's so very well. Stop the show. Yeah. I will say something clever like folks, we got a real close for an air. So I'm going to confirm the scoring with the numbers. You know, just to make sure. But because I can tell you, you didn't. I'm looking down. I'm just fishing. And I'm like, there's no way in this earth. This guy beat that guy. There's no way. I don't care what angle I'm at. The one guy didn't look like I ever hit the gymnast life. The other guy was up. He's decent. But they had it reversed. But we had this happen. It's only happened once at the Olympia. A couple years ago. If you remember in fitness, where they gave me the wrong name. Right? And I had this sit there and do this team. How are we doing? Because it's like, I got the game of the wrong. And that got switched. Yeah. That's my nightmare. And I'm looking at it going. It's every inch. I could have sworn this girl was wouldn't put in one, right? And you know, for some other reason, I think they got to mix up with the different classes. What happened. I think it was... I think it was a big difference. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I got switched. Between Sarah and Natalia. All right. We're something like that. But so I just think there was a mix up in the thing. But when I got to me, I'm like, and I looked at the expert at getting them like, really? And he goes, I'm just delivered. I go, are you kidding me? I knew it was wrong. The problem was it was one of those COVID years that we were in Vegas. The stage was as big as his expo. Yeah. Nobody asked to me. I couldn't get to anybody. I should have just stopped the show. Yeah. But I knew it. I couldn't get to the next one. Go check this. We just know. Yeah. And that's never been wrong. No. So it's like, oh, you know, if it's messed up. You don't know me. But so we were talking about how the sports changed about how old the pros are now. There's not a show out there that has teenage anything in it. No. No. No. When did Teen Nationals disappear? Like, that's like saying, when did women's bodybuilding amateur shows disappear? They disappeared. I mean, I haven't had a women's bodybuilding show. I've been eight years in Hawaii. Great show by the way. Yeah. It's not because I don't want women bodybuilders. There's just no women bodybuilders. When we were competing as teens, a teenage class were huge. Hats. I mean, there would be a new each other. 10 or 15 of us out there. Yeah. We all do each other. You know, kind of a lot of future champs. Not anymore. And now I don't think you can even hear. You have to be 18 years old to compete, by the way. I think you have to be 18. Yeah. They actually changed the rules, which. I don't know. I mean, I can maybe have something to do with women's bikini. I mean, it's got something to lie ability or I don't know. But I don't know. I'm competing. You're too young. Good off. 13. I started competing. I was 13. I would have missed all those years. You know, I mean, it's a team. Like that's. So if the teenagers have nowhere to go, where do we get our next generation of athletes? I did a teenage show when I was 17. Yeah. I was in high school. I would have an open show as a teenager. Honestly, I would put some campaign to get the right to recruit. Guys, but you know what I always thought they should have had was a teenage Olympia. That would have been great. Good for you. You did a good for you. Yeah. He was like, yeah, no. It was enough that he got his head. He got his head. He got his head. He got his head. After winning the team, naturally, I went to Australia and did the junior World Championship. So that's kind of like, you know, junior Mr. Universe. I went all the way down to Australia, but I just turned 20 and went down there in one of that competition. But we don't have a farm club for the next generation. There's nothing. Like remember you're talking about Mr. puniverse? I'm talking about the people out of the audience that get on stage and never been an agenda. Yeah. And you got to pick the worst guy. Well, this should have a teenager. Mr. Sto's days. Those were great. Oh man. The social media have a lot of young kids that want to do this, but they have nowhere to do it. Right. They don't want to jump into an open show stand next to a grown man. It's not a fair fight. Yeah. Yeah. That's terrible. What would be something else that you would change about the format of the weekend with all these categories. Like you said the one day show. Yes. The one day show is. So do you think that it's just the expo that prevents them from doing that? There's a lot of moving pieces again. Personally, you can do it. It's still. We get it for years. Yeah. I would put just hypothetically right. Ben's open. Put the pre judging on 12. 12. And the afternoon. Yeah. Whatever. Whatever you want. That's the expo. And then put them out of night. That same night. Yeah. How do you same thing? Pre judging for whatever classic. Yeah. If pre judging was at 12 noon today here, that would still be sold out. Next door. The theater next night. It would still be sold out. Yeah. Today and tonight. Yeah. You don't lose. The audience shouldn't have to choose. But I want to go into the expo. I'm here. I go watch the pre judging at 12. It's still coming to the expo. Yeah. They got to do something for the body builders have to have a say, I think, in this because their bodies are going through this right now. They don't. Yeah. It's the organizers. Yeah. I thought that was a bit of a big pleasure to have me on and on, say, I'm just glad to have you guys on. I know you're going to make it. I'm talking about trying to get you on. We're like, we got to get Bob somehow. Sure. So it was great to come back and see you sit in here waiting for us. And obviously Sean, I'm real happy to get to sit down and talk to you. It's been a long time coming and got to Hawaii. Yeah, it was 18. Yeah. Yeah. I gotta do them. and I got to say, I got to open the vault to get this guy out. Oh, it's so charging now, right? It's the only reason he's here, so I can get him down. And how much does it become so a little bit of fun? This guy lives in Georgia. And he's saying no to Hawaii. That's his first class ticket and a $100,000 fee. There you go. I'm gonna do something to trade. Oh, I'm a big time right now. Can I show you? I'm in the house. I'm a big deal. He's the voice of bodybuilding because I helped him. Yeah. I come out just because of Tim. I got to get Shane Bindoy. He's afraid of the sun. Yeah. He doesn't want the surf in the my ties. I got to say I was lucky enough to go to your show in Hawaii. I went with me. Tell me what it's missing. It was awesome. I mean, I took the wife and we did the helicopter tour of a week. He's coming to Hawaii to work. I had like two boat evolutions. It was great. We were invited together. It was like 22. 22. 22. 22. 22. Pacing myself. I got an idea. But once every 22 years, so I'll be in the summer. I'll be in Hawaii. We'll go back. I'm going to bring you back. Got it. Got it. You and I can go. Yeah. You can continue to argue with each other. You can't stand the camera. You got to come to see him. You guys come together. You guys are a man. Well, I'm really looking forward to tonight. There's a special moment tonight, isn't there? Yes, there is. Yes. What was the most of that? Lifetime achievement award. I've been seeing him. Who's who? Flexi Lerr. Flexi Lerr. The semesters. The long season. We got the hand. It was all kinds of. Honey, Ronnie Coleman, right? Sorry, ever, sir. That was. That was. Rememberable, but Jay Coller. Luke getting his just two tonight. Lifetime achievement award. Yeah, the cut above. Jay Coller. Is he a little young for Lifetime achievement? No, man. He's one of the show three times. Yes, four Olympia titles. He's got a slew of titles. He's got a slew of titles. He beat Ronnie Coleman. I think it's a game. Jay's a type of guy you might have to have another one in 10 years. Flexi Lerr. He's a lot behind you. Yeah, actually. He actually. He's literally. I think he has a lot. He's taken hands and kissed the babies for a couple of hours. There he goes. Jay has always been truly the people's champ. Yeah. He loved them for years. He was smoking. He's made millions in the industry and other business ventures that he's got. So nobody more deserving. He's got the Jay Coller classic coming on March 30th. That's a lot of Vegas. I have to tell one quick thing about Jay. We had Andrea Shaw on yesterday and I asked her what the best advice she'd ever been given by anyone for her career. And she said that's easy. She said one time I talked to Jay and Jay told me don't change it up on people. Yeah. If you guess pose for someone the first time and you don't charge him, then you guess pose for that person. Because they're the reason you got the next gig and the next gig. So Jay must have forgot when I told her my advice which was you need to get with you. Right. And she got with you in her life has never been the same. She must have forgot about I'm a reminder. You know what those Jay walks to walk because to this day, Chantel back to sub. He still goes to David Lee Reben show. He still goes to Lonnie Tee per show. Yeah. But he doesn't have to go to these things. He's way past it right though. But he's never forgot where he's come from. Yes. He's full podcast now. The couple of cast. Yeah. Yeah. The couple of cast him in manager. And a German man. Yeah. Good guys. Yeah. We're going to recognize Jay tonight. He gets his flowers tonight. Yeah. That's awesome. I'm really looking forward to it. It's probably going to be the highlight of the weekend for a lot of people. I want to thank you. Obviously our audience for sticking with us and everyone that's actually stood here and watch. This is going on YouTube. We didn't expect anybody to pose down. Roll YouTube. But we got to say we guys, he thanks to the voice of body building Bob Chickarello. We're a newist member of the mutant family. Great to have you. No one here for so many years. And it's just awesome to have been able to work with you now. And Sean, great to sit down with you, dude. I know. I know. I had a great time in Hawaii and I would love to come back. We could talk Jim and Tom. You know, make a name for another plane ticket. I'd be just in a need Bob too. Yeah. The fit rocks are okay now. Yeah. Yeah. Amazing. Yeah. So we're going to wait. Andrew is guest posing again this show. Oh. There you go. Another reason to go. Okay. Remember like share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Ring the bell. Remember I am mutant.com. Go to imut.com. Dusty 20. Big run 20. Get your rights. We'll surge. Get your all in and everybody should get on the gear. Yeah. There you go. Thanks to Scott to Producer McNally for making absolutely everything here happened. Dusty and I do nothing. He does everything. He is the man. He is the reason. Thanks everybody. It's just body building. Yeah. He is the reason. So we're going to make you famous. I feel like I have to go. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know what the boy is like. Yeah. I feel like I have to go. I have to go. Yeah. I have to go. I have to go. Yeah. I'm already.

Short-term, you want the quickest changes? Try to ascertain, don't give it to you. Before, yeah, the compound. The biggest thing I touched on was the diet. This doesn't come into fruition without a very harsh diet. Right? Yeah, it's a good thing. And you know your doubts are good when they round out to the back. Yeah, I hit the root of it. It's an entailed tail sign. I've said before, I'll say it again. There are no pros who should be rude else. What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and here with coaches Skip Hill, Andrew Berry, and myself, Scott McDale, all of our programming is brought to you by you. The people of Patreon, we've got some Patreon topics today. We're brought to you by I keep wanting to say, evalblutoneluses.com. Get your work done by Dave. It's just programmed in my head. But we are brought to you by Trinutrition, user code, think for additional savings, and high quality third party test and supplements from a company you can trust at SupplementSource.ca for Canadians. Man, I just butchered that whole thing. You don't do that ever. No, I was getting a text over here from Andrew, and I'm, everything's discombobulating me. We're just going to get into this thing. We do have a bunch of list of questions. We're happy to have you guys here hanging with us. And I wanted to bring to you a topic that I thought would be fun. We had the weirdest question on drugs and stuff, recording that the latest episode. What this guy was telling us about doing these two week cycles. He's like, I do two week cycles, then I come off everything for three months, and they do another two week cycle. And I think that I've actually made progress. He's like, I'm completely natural in between. And it just got me thinking, you know, that topic aside. What is the shortest cycle that you could do that is effective? And how would you put that together? Let's think of some, like just short get in, get it done, get out cycles that are going to, put on some quality muscle tissue. I mean, I'm thinking back to what John Meadows used to tell me he would do was, you know, because he was just a CC of testosterone pretty much 52 weeks a year. But then right before say the Arnold Classic, like 15 days before he throw in like a hundred makes of anoddraw and honestly he would more like over to where you're like, are you have 20 pounds? So I mean, I would say technically that is the shortest cycle I've heard of someone do. And because then he'd pull it right back off and just stay back on TRT testosterone. So, okay. I mean, it was effective and he kept the gains for probably another four to six weeks post, you know? So, okay. How about like somebody who just wants to, because I've had people tell me like, hey, you know what, we're going to the Jersey Shore this summer. And I want to try to beef up as much as I can. And, you know, I have been wanting to run a cycle. We're leaving in seven weeks and Drew. Okay. I mean, I'd probably, you know, probably push your testosterone to something like a hundred milligrams a day. I'd probably go a little harder on the DHT. So I might even bring like, mass-ron in a 800, a little bit higher than your testosterone. Because I want to get a drier harder look right out of the gate. Because we know when we don't have time on the back end. And then I would definitely push trend in there. And then I would probably just, I'd be like the last six weeks of a contest, for a plan really. And okay. If the goal was to look like a competing bodybuilder, as close to a competing bodybuilder, that's just what I would do. And I would definitely, you know, I would crash the calories. And I would, yeah, that's a big thing. Like you can't just take the gear. I would crash the calories to the point where I might pull carbs out completely. Until you, you know, till you see a low or till you stop seeing lows. And then do a skip load or a refeed of some sort. And then get right back on that cycle again. And see if we can drop like 25 pounds in that six weeks. The only downfall to that protocol is he wouldn't be able to drink while he was there because his kidneys wouldn't be functioning there. Yeah. That is true. That is true. No, it's, it's, it's, it's, I don't like that six seven week. I mean, I, you know, I think your original question Scott was like, how short would you go? Yeah. Two weeks is pretty short. But I have always said this. So I give the guy credit for this. He's outside of the box. I like it. Because at first I was like, what the fuck? Yeah. But then I'm like, Tammy's doing something though that other people don't do. And he's evaluating it and assessing it. And if he's progressing from it, I did like the part I did chuckle a little bit to myself when he said he was natural in between. Yeah. You're not natural in between. You're, you're not. I don't know if you use that term. I don't know if you're not. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know if you're a jazz off cycle. There's a difference. So, so what would you say skip is? Because here's another scenario. I've seen guys that are like, you know what? I got to go to my doctor every, you know, whatever, 12 weeks and do lab work. And I'd love to be able to squeeze something in there. But I also want to get my levels back in range blah blah blah blah. And of course there could be, you know, issues with that. Like I was your other health markers going to look, you know, even though your test is in range. But, you know, for whatever reason, you know, a short cycle. So are you saying that like, sounds like six, six weeks? What would be the use skip? Yeah. I mean, short cycle. You know, I try to put myself in that position that spot and go, how short would I go before I thought it was too short. But I've been doing, you know, I'm a professional drug user. So there's I've got a lot of years under my belt. I wouldn't go anything less than six weeks. That just is, that's what's sticking out my brain. I think the only thing I like Andrew's approach, I would probably be because you said, Jersey Shore. Yeah. I would pull, I would not add the trend. I would add an oral. But here's the thing. I got to give you this short term. You want the quickest changes? Trying to acetate. Go and give it to you before. Yeah. The other compound. It's just that with those doses, that's a pretty, it's a pretty hard hit. Unless someone was experienced with similar doses. So, you know, I mean, if someone were hit, we'd only run as an example, you know, 500, 400 for a couple cycles. I, you know, I don't know if I'd go, well, you were saying what, 700 tests, 800 master on master on relatively innocuous. How high were you going to go on the trend? You're a low dose trend guy. So that's probably, I'd probably do 25 milligrams a day. Yeah. That's, that's not that crazy. No, that's not bad at all. But keep mind the biggest thing I touched on was the diet. Like, yeah. Yeah. This doesn't come into fruition without a, a very harsh diet. Right. It's a good cardio. All that stuff. So, yeah. And when the same be true, too, if you're like, hey, listen, Andrew, I'm coming to you. I've got, you know, 10 weeks. I'm before I have to, to leave. I need to run this cycle in a, you know, six week period of time. I want to gain as much muscle as possible. Would you go the other direction, too? Like, would we then super ramp? Food if I'm going to try to do everything I can in six weeks? Yeah. But I would have them check their blood sugar every morning. And the minute I see you, vaultering. Yeah. I would probably, I'd either start insulin to help re-correct with every single meal or I would now. Okay. Now we're going to pull back the calories for like a 10 day stretch before we do another blast. So that blast of food, I should say. Yeah. In terms of compounds. I mean, I, I still go test and trend probably. If you want to make the most bang for your buck, it's, you know, I would, I would probably, and if, if you're like, hey, I'm okay with side effects or I'm okay. You feel like shit. Well, I want to put on, I'd probably run the train a little higher. I'm not going to lie. Yeah. You know, and I probably throw in some, I probably, I probably lay here in some anodrol for a good, for the good portion of it. And then I'd probably switch to something a different oral over the last 10 to 15 days. Okay. Now, what about the test? Would you guys use like a fast, a short aster? Like, would, are you thinking, would you use long acting? Or, you would use both. Still, even though it's only six weeks, we still want to get that long test in there, huh? I'm still a 50 50 guy. Not always black and white 50 50, but yeah, 50 50 50 60 40, Pro-zip all day long. All right. I would say probably, I would say 50 milligrams of a pro per day. And then probably an average of like 100 to 250 of a longer aster test off from per day, as well. So now, okay. And of course, those doses would probably change depending on who you're working with. Like Skip said, you know, is that a guy that has a lot of experiences? Talk about girls. That's what I offer girls. Oh, come on. Okay. Miss that. I miss that. I'm completely 120 pound figure girl going to the jersey. Sure. That's for sure. Sex driver be up. Hey. Yeah. Yeah. All right. I thought that'd be kind of a fun one to open up with. It seems like people aren't as interested in doing the short cycles nowadays. You guys remember like back in the day. Yeah. Psychos lasted eight weeks, ten weeks, 12 weeks. It was 16 was like really pushing it because everybody came off was the thing. Yeah. You know, you got to come off or whatever. At least most people did. And now then it's just like, well, I just go back to my cruise dough. So people aren't as concerned about recovering their natural tests like they once were. And I think with that, cycles have gotten longer, you know. Yeah. I think people noticed the emotional roller coaster though. Ah. I think that's played a big part. I know it did for me early out. I'm like, you know what? I don't want this roller coaster not only with myself, but with my clients of, you know, the testosterone estrogen, you know, doing this. Yeah. Because there's something to be said of, you know, there's merit with eight week cycles. If you're going to go eight weeks on eight weeks off. I was hoping the more I talked it would work itself out. Sorry. Anyway, eight weeks on eight weeks off for the for the first three to four weeks that you're off. Blood levels are tapering. You're still kind of on. You're just not dosing the gear. But from above level standpoint, you're still going to benefit. You guys have seen that going into, you know, when people come off. I mean, three, four, five weeks. It's I had to help people. Like you're not just all of a sudden after a week, you will psychologically think that you're getting small and you're getting weak. But you should still feel like you're on cycle recovery. You should be great. So half of that time off of that eight weeks. You're not feeling like you're off too much. But then comes the roller coaster. Yeah. And that kind of lens the point of why not just cruise and or keep your doses lower moderate and do longer cycles. Yeah. Yeah. For exactly watch your blood markers. I mean, I did. I've said it before. I'm sure I'm going to get beat up because there are going to be plenty of people who haven't heard it. But I did a cycle for three and a half years. Our youngest daughter was conceived. So when my wife came to me and said she was pregnant, I'm like, Oh, bitch. That is not my kid. Like what they can be. So I apparently was down to three sperm, but they had capes and S's on their chest. They were really strong. Super sperm. Yes. But nonetheless, she looks exactly like an axe just like me. I think the reason why a lot of guys, why the eight weeks on or 12 weeks on was kind of Stretching it right was gear was a lot harder to get your hands on 20 years. True. I mean, true. You guys remember like he was a big deal when your gear came. Whereas now it's like, Oh, I got this coming in this day. I got this these pepats coming in next day. I could get a GH coming in. And someone get the mail for me. I don't want to sit down in the in the sun. Yeah. And a lot of cycles were utilizing testosterone, Deca and Debal. So you felt like shit. Like your blood pressure was up. Like you did break after 10 weeks. So yeah, you were actually happy to take that that time off because you're just like, My head's about to explode. So I do think the compound choices are really dictating the length of the cycles now. Like I don't know anyone that runs, you know, 20 weeks of Debal, for instance. You know how to say it. As much as I like it. Yeah, that's too much of a good thing right there. Very few things I have had done. That's a one of them. We have a review here basically of our coaching. Somebody said, I just started working with Andrew for the last month or so. And I'm very happy so far. 10 out of 10 would recommend. Thanks, buddy. Yeah, he's a good client. Yeah, he tunes it to all our stuff too. Yeah, he kind of reminds me I would imagine of all three of us or at least me and Skip because I think you got into a little bit later, right Scott? I did. Yeah, I mean, I trained earlier, but I didn't get into gear in serious until later. Yeah, no, remind me of myself like, you know, being on Skips Forum as like a 17-18-year-old guy just absorb and everything and and probably skipped with the muscle magazines because the performance really weren't a thing back. But he was a little younger. Yeah. Got one for me too. to getting ready to work with Scott for my first show. So far, the communication is outstanding and I'm really looking forward to it. This is like totally just a plug for us. No. It's just like a complete plug. Just how you're answering it. My hand to check out the, where those messages originated from. What does that happen? Now we at gmail.com, no. Hey, what's this one? Who posted this one here? Oh. Well played. Well played. Well played. That's good. We did get an emergency question. We should probably handle that, certainly. We do have a couple of patron people that asked for critiques to us. We've got those in a personal listener questions. Terminator, where are you at? Buddy. He was like, I've got an emergency question. Everybody's commenting, which is all we have on type is, but have no one else comment. Type for like three minutes. Burrows, I need your help. My nipples are burning on 150, trend 150 milligrams of trend ace, weekly 300 milligrams of test E. If I run trend, only will the side effect stop? No. Probably not. Yeah. So I mean, okay, so I think first thing you got to do, rather than have those guests is go get some lapsed on. Go get your E2, progesterone, pro-lact, and check. And let's find out what is the cause of that, right? Yeah. It's hard to believe that 300 milligrams of test would drive your E2 through the roof, but then again, like with PEDs, anything is possible. We know some guys that can do 100 milligrams of test hospital in a week and it puts their blood levels at like 900 nanograms. We know other guys that can do a 100 and they're barely 250 nanograms per deciliter per when they're tested. So it's given us more information. Would help us give you the approach on how to attack this. Yeah. That makes it in the meantime. Something that never made sense to me. Back to it, we were talking deep all the minute ago in the old school days. I remember if people would be like, oh, I started my cycle kick starting with deep all I'm three weeks in. And I'm getting guino now. What should I do? I would say this, the one advice that was never ever given on the boards was, number one, don't take any more deep all until you get distorted. But there just no, I gotta keep taking the deep all. I gotta like, dude, if you stop taking the deep all, then maybe your estrogen will come back down. You know what I'm saying? So I would also not take the shots. Like, let's hold off on this. You don't need to keep ramming the gear up, you know? Until you get it sorted. Labs are gonna take a few days. Sometimes, you know? Mm-hmm. Why, hello? I wanted to do something different with my true nutrition advertisement for today. And here's the thing, I just got our order in Victorian I, we pay for all the protein that we get. They don't send us anything for free. And that's because I've believed in nutrition for 15 years, no? I've been using them ever since I contested. Proud, they have some of the cleanest, best quality protein. A lot of times I use the team skip, but here's the deal. I'm going back to the pure way isolate. The pure way isolate, it just processes so fast. This is my favorite flavor, chocolate, peanut butter cubs. But if you want to try just like one pound at a time, you can do that just sample it. I've never had the cookie butter. So I'm gonna try the cookie butter this week. We got a little bag, a pea protein isolate for the wife. This is what she likes to use. And here's the thing, they're just about wholesale prices at true nutrition plus they don't add the flavor in when they weigh it. So you get like legit one pound of protein and then from there they add the flavor after that. So every one pound, I think it's like one point two, I'm not sure don't quote me on that. But hey, here's the thing, the true nutrition is a great quality protein. They believe in us, they advertise with us because I literally ask them to. And if you use our code, think you'll get some additional savings plus, of course, that's like voting for our podcast. So thank you guys, I hope you enjoyed my impromptu ad. Goodbye. Oh my god. Like I said, we do have a bunch of stuff. I'm just looking at the stream now, because we do have so many people that are hanging with us. Thank you guys for being here. We had a bunch of questions, and I wanted to make sure I got to this one from Gabe. He says, Dumbell Trust Press versus Flat versus Incline versus Decline. Is one superior if not, what would a rotation of these exercises look like if the chest was equally developed, great show as always, Gabe not? Who's done an incredible transformation, by the way, is like legit hundred pounds down? Mm-hmm. Oh, okay. We covered this on this other podcast that I can't think of the name of it right now. But when it comes to bodybuilding, the Dumbell Press versus the bench press, and obviously we need to get into different angles things change. But that the Dumbell Press just ended up, so I can't rattle off the numbers and the comparisons and everything else, but Dumbell Press ended up being significantly better than the bench press, because of the shift a lot of times to the anterior del during regular barbell presses. The type of barbell press that you're doing, whether the elbows are talking more of a power lifting, mechanics type of situation versus, and I hate to say the word flair, because as soon as I say flair, then somebody will either flair them too much, and they injure themselves, because they don't have the range of motion, and they're not used to that type of movement, where something like myself is great with it, and it's gone 41 years with no pectares. So be careful with that, take it face value, but all those things factor in, and I know I'll say myself that when I heard these numbers, and it just backed up the fact that I want that range of motion, and I think, I mean, he can't see it, because I'm not wide, wide angled here with the camera, but think of doing a barbell bench press, but you're holding dumbbells. Right there, you look at the range of motion that you're losing there with the barbell bench press, versus the dumbbell bench press. So you're losing a pretty significant amount of range of motion. Then you add the component of the vulnerability for the shoulders. Sometimes one shoulder's going to hurt a little bit more than the other, or is irritated, or whatever, with dumbbells, you can make those little subtle tweaks to get out of that groove that is arguably irritated, or discomfort, or discomfort there, and you can tweak it a little bit. I can do dumbbell presses to them, blue in the face, and all different angles. And then I do any barbell press at any angle. I'm like, I just hate these. How did I do these for years, and force myself to do? And I think a lot of us did. We just, we accepted those rules as these are written in stone there, essentially commandments, and you force yourself to do exercises that may not be terribly beneficial for you, or may not fit your structure, whether it be squatting, whether it be beds, you know, taller, your taller, versus shorter, so are you built to pull beds, you know, same thing with the bench press. So my advice would be dump the barbell if you can. The only exception to that is if you're going to finish, if you just insist on doing bench press finish with it, use it as a finisher. When you're literally just, I don't want to say it's exhausted, but the muscle is about as warm as it will be. Number one, you're going to decrease the chance of an injury. So the risk of injury goes down significantly. But here's why people won't do that because they can't put up the numbers, when they open with it, and benching is to 99% of people all about numbers. But I was dead stop those things. I mean, sometimes it's 185, 225, dead stop on the chest full lockout. Dead stop on the chest full lockout. That's exactly what I do. I'm limited in my home gym. I can't go over to like this prime machine and then use this hammer machine. I've got my dumbbells. I do. I'm lucky that I do have my converging chest press. And I freaking love that thing. But then I also have the bench. And one thing that I do is I use the elite FTS shoulder-saver pad. Is there it? Is there a good time for that? What kind of shoulder? It's the elite. Oh, elite, that's yes. Okay. Yeah, does there a code for that many familiar? No, there's not a code. I can get pretty much anything, but I can't get equipment. I do get a discount on the equipment for yourself. Transfer that to anybody else. I got you. Okay, so for the listeners. Yeah. Yeah. Little skim. You guys know. Yeah, right. If you guys know, if you guys do my equipment, you'll eat. Yeah. We've got this. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I paid in full price for my elite shoulder Saver pad. But it's like a real dense foam. You know, half like half circle thing, like a foam roller, but just a half a one. It clips on your bar. And it literally, I bring it down to my chest. I dead stop it, right? So this is at the end of chest work. I'm done with chest. And I do this on a mild incline dead stop it. And then from there, I drive it. Oh, as I push my knife, I drive it up all the way to that hard lockout squeeze the pecs slow. Like four second negative back down dead stop it repeat. Like for me at this stage of the game, one plate per side is all I need. And I might do like three sets of 10, well, three sets of 12 to 15. Oh, my God. There's no question, man. My pecs are fried after that. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's a great, great finisher. And before someone butts you about the shoulder saver. I'm going to say this. Benching is a lot like squatting. You get deep if you can squat deep. Unless you're limited by pelvic tilt. And if you're limited by pelvic tilt, it's the same thing is being limited through shoulder mobility where the anterior dealt wants to take over in the bottom position. So there's no sense forcing that bottom position of a bench press anymore than there is forcing as to grass like we always said. Yeah. You know that old mentality. If you don't have that mobility in your hips too, you're putting yourself in a crappy position. And I would say without much of an ROI at all, if you had the flexibility and mobility, that's different. That's fine. But don't bus, I don't like when people bus on people for stopping, you know, an inch above the chest. Number one, you got to stop the bar versus touching go, which is usually a little bit of a balance anyway. So yeah. You know, there's more control there. But you're losing into the range of motion. And I think those shoulder sabers, I think they're great. If you're getting three inches shy. Do you know what I mean? Yeah, you might because it's basically from a power lift. They're made for power lifters and it's something that the bodybuilders have kind of said. Oh, okay. That could say a lot of shoulder. I've been using it for years now. And I'll tell you what, man, just the feeling of my chest. I don't care what anybody says. Like I know. Don't they have different thicknesses though? I don't. I don't I mean, maybe they do now. And I know. There was only the one. It's all just the sandwich. There's there's an idea right there. There's a Rifties make different make different thicknesses and get skip a code. Exactly. You guys are for due for presses. I have. Yeah. I'm not doing them currently. I'm not doing the position. Oh, yeah. Oh, you tell me what the marble. I think it was the dump of the bar. I was here. It was marble or dumbbell. I prefer them with the dumbbell, but I've done them with barbell. That's probably the extent of what I would bench press today. It was just before press type scenario. You know, they're tough. I did. I'm just scared of the bench press. Like scared. Even on a Smith machine, I'm saying a prayer before every set. I'm really thinking about it. I'm not kidding. Yeah. It's one of those exercises. You know, I don't. Did you guys ever like ego lift your bench press? Like, did you go to your phase where? Yeah. You know, you did us. We all, you know what I mean? I think anybody who's ever done a bench press is attempted to ego lift it, right? I never did until I was like 10 years into bodybuilding. I was like, okay, it doesn't seem like the exercise for me. I've heard too many stories, people turn packs. So I never pushed it. I always was a dumbbell, machines, and I do like the Smith machine if I was going to bench press. And then in 2016 or 17, maybe 17, I got on a kick. I'm like, I'm going to get my bench press really, as big as I possibly can. Yeah. And I got it, you know, decent. But like, I think I did two weeks in a row. I did a certain way for the same reps. And I just said, you know what? Like, I could see this being the end of my bodybuilding career. And I said, no more. And I didn't have a series of bench press since then. So it's been like eight or nine years. Yes, remember the body master Smith? How heavy that thing was? Yeah. There's like a high I have a, I have old video. I mean, I have videos on YouTube back to like 2008 or 2009. One of them is me doing a decline press with 365 for 8 or 9 reps. And I had a guy, I know, because I'm not, I'm just not a strong guy. And I look every now and then I'll come across that video. I'll be like, man, was that stupid? And I just had some cat step in from the jam who, you know, which you know is a recipe for disaster. And I just basically told him, if it pins me, I guess, pulling me out from underneath or calling ambulance or something, you know, one of the things that I always say is, you'll know when don't touch the bar, you'll know when to help me because of sound something like this. And they always laugh and at least they're paying attention and they heard what I said. But this guy, now he, it's a Smith. So I mean, all he has to do is get it off of me. But he didn't turn 180 pounds. So I have no idea if he got a folded off of me or not. But I just look at that and I go, what the hell was I thinking? Like, that's just way too much weight to be pressing. And yet I was significantly younger. Never had shoulder problems, never had a pack tear or anything. I've been fortunate to not have that. And I had lower back issues, but I haven't had any type of pector anything. I don't think we answered his question, though. It was all good stuff. So I was like, let's just keep talking. I don't know. What was the question? What was it? It's question was dumbbells. Like flat versus incline versus decline is one superior. And if I did say the dumbbells are superior, I gave my opinion. No, he's saying the angle, which angle is flatter. He's saying dumbbells. We're using dumbbells no matter what. Flat incline or decline. That was the question. Oh, okay. I thought it was just giving like, oh, no. I mean, I'm blind. You need I'm going to take decline over flat all day long. Slight decline. Not slight. The 45, you know, but a slight decline. I don't even do flat dumbbell presses anymore. I do slight decline. That is a better groove for me. Arguably because it mimics the decline hammer, which is one of my favorite. So why decline hammer is one of my favorite chess. It probably is demos. My favorite. It's the number one. And I don't have that at one of my gym. So I do. I would think a lot of it, which is nice. You know what I mean? You're not feeling it in that front doubt. And even out of an incline, I'm very, very low incline. I mean, we're talking 15 degrees. I like that. I don't go up 30, you know, and then 40, if I see a 45, I'm like, I'm just not in touch. You've seen me skip. I'll crank that thing up like, you know, more than, yeah, 45. But then I also like just the sliding client, too. Those are great. Yeah. I'm more versliding. Yeah. And then with bar path hand path and everything else, too. You know, if you're bringing the bar down to your lower packs, then, okay. But that bar line is typically mid-packer upper packs. So it depends on shoulder position and elbow position and all that path, you know, the bar path. You ever do a guillotine process? Yeah. Well, the run. Yeah. I like those. Years ahead of me. Years ahead of the game. Last week. I have a lot of people. Do we need the incline? Because I heard you, I think I heard you say that skip. Like, well, you need some incline. I've said that if you can do without, I think you can, people could not use the incline and still get great upper pectivela. But it's so nuanced. Like, it would take a lot. Like, you got to know what you're doing because then it gets into, like I said, the bar path, the elbow and shoulder hands, all that it's a big deal and it's complicated. But yeah, I do. I think you could, I think that's why the low incline works. So well, for those people who know what they're doing and they know where the mechanics that they need to make that work. Otherwise, the low incline isn't going to do much for you. Let me offer an alternative. Yeah. Just to be have a debate. Do you think it really matters what you do for your chest in terms of exercise selection or angle selection? Or do you think the chest is just a genetic body part that's going to grow from whatever stimulus? And where I'm going with this is I know guys that all they ever did was bench for us, they never did incline inclines were for losers because they had to use 20% less weight. Let's just say. Yeah, it was always bench for us. That can. Don't bel bench for us in like some machine and some kind of cable cross over, right? Yeah. And they had unbelievable pecs. I'm thinking that genetics more than anything dictate the growth of a muscle like the like the pecs. I think I think you're right. But I think I don't think it's any different for chest than it is anything else. Really? I think that whether it's different. Well, give me prime example why it is different. Okay. Look at part. Look at wellness and look at bikini athletes. What their exercise selection. They're they don't do squats. They don't do leg presses. They do very specific things for glutes, adductors, hamstring. You don't say it. It's quite a good thing. Yeah, and I'm not saying they didn't have a base of doing squats, like your exercise. But I'm saying like any of my pro like wellness or or bikini athletes, their programs. You would look at that program. You'd probably be like, where's the hard stuff? You know, like where's the meat potatoes? Because it's all just such specific stuff. Really just targeted towards the upper outer glutes. Okay. Then let me argue the other side. The other side would be then maybe we need to choose or we had need to have an exercise selection that is less about which one's better, but which one feels better and is less of a vulnerability based on pain or limitations with, you know, structure and that sort of thing. I could see, I could see both scenarios. I just, I hate, like I think most people do. I hate admitting that the genetic component is as important as it is. We don't want, especially with people with mediocre genetics. I don't want, I want to believe there's a way around it. There's a work around. You know what I mean? You can get better. You can get better. You can always get better. Don't get me wrong. But like, I think at the end of the day, there's the lid of it and what you're saying. Well, here's a prime example. And your example of when we throw pictures of someone and a front double and one of the first thing you're like, oh, that chest line. That's just I wish I had. And it's like, yeah, you really think, and these are guys that are 20 years younger than you in a lot of cases, do you think that guy has more training experience or his, you know, you know, you know, I'm getting that like, if a guy who's 19 is technique, you know, yeah, no, he's just been trained in like the same way we were when we were 18 19 to 20 through years old, banging weights and genetically, that's just the body part that explodes for. I found in my experience that so for several years there, I relied on dumbbell and client press. My chest got to be its biggest invest ever and I really wasn't doing any flat. And I never reached a point where I was like, you know, my lower pack needs a little bit more. You know what I mean? It's like, for me, it just grew everything. Like, I just did in clients really only and that was, I just, but I went heavy, you know, and I learned to get strong with it. And my whole pack grew. I think that, now I know Gabe is a former strong man. Dude has a lot of tissue already. So he's not in the same boat as maybe some of our other listeners. I think that for a lot of our guys that are that are listening, especially like the younger guys or the newer guys, maybe you're 40, but you've only been lifting for two years now, like just get more. And like skip you said, like, what feels the best for you? Like lean into that. I wouldn't tell everybody to do dumbbell and climb press at that high angle I did, but I love it. You know, it feels right for me. And I, for me, I was able to get real strong on that. So find what works good for you, get really strong on it, build as much tissue as you can. And I bet that that's going to take care of the upper, the lower, you know what I mean? Let me piggyback off this and ask you guys a question that I think the viewers will find interesting. When a client comes to you and says, I had this lagging by tell me which exercise is to do you to do? Do you tell them specific exercises or do you have a different response? Because I've got a different response. Now I'm not trying to lead your responses, you know, your answers, but I'll leave it at that. I'm wondering what you guys think. Do you pick different exercises or I would personally? It depends on what it is, but a lot of times I want to see how they perform it. Because I did a whole lot of pull downs in my day and my back didn't grow. My lats didn't grow the way I wanted them to until I changed my technique. So in that, a lot of times if I'm seeing like if I see somebody who's pretty well developed overall and maybe they have like a lagging back, I want to see how they train to look at it to be like, well, what's not working here? On the other hand, I've seen it where like one guy I'm thinking of now and you guys have seen people like this too, they'll have like crazy legs and then their upper body is kind of like, just yeah, it's okay, you know? And you get talking to them and they're like, oh, I love lag day, lag days like a different animal for me. And then our goal is to then, well, how can we translate that intensity into your chest and your back? Because it's just the intensity level. It wasn't high enough, maybe in those other body parts. Or what a intercess is there genetically gifted in those areas. I know I am with calves and arms, everything looked like my calves and arms. I have a prokair by now. Well, and there is something to that because hey, if I'm genetically gifted, say, say you take that guy with really good legs and he goes just him every leg day, maybe he does that because it feels so good. He cannot, well, absolutely good. Yeah, that's genetic. I hate training arms and calves. So there's that. Same. All right. I can do without ever training arms again in my life. I just, it's just honestly, it's like an eye roll. Oh my god, I can train arms. I'm doing more arms lately. My arms have never been super strong. Like, I don't have big peaks, you know? But my arms only looked their best when they were their thickest. It's like, well, your arm looks thick. It's acceptable. So I just, I decided I'm prioritizing them a little bit right now. Just as a, as a little experiment, we'll see what happens. Caves, I'm not really. But the reason I ask you guys that question is a lot of, a lot of my response to my client is this, what are you doing now? Because obviously, you want to know what they're doing and if they think that it's not working and frequency and total volume and everything else. But I always tell people, I don't know what equipment you have available to you. I don't know where you know, so I mean, I understand if you look, you know, you train in home jam or you, but if you train in a gym, I don't know what's going to be used and you're going to have to wait on it and you're going to, you know, shift on the fly anyway. The other thing is, what feels good? Like when you do the exercise and you feel that muscle from the insertion to the origin down to the bump versus doing any other exercises you go, yeah, I really don't feel it. You make a good point. Obviously, the mechanics are huge because sometimes you can look at the mechanics, you're just destroying this exercise. Like this is not, this is why you're not feeling it. But sometimes the mechanics are great and they still don't feel it. So my response has always been stay with the ones that we all have those exercises me and I use the wide angle hammer as an example. That will hit my pack from top to bottom and just literally blow it up into warm upsets, blow it up like someone put an air in it. So we all have those exercises and you know, I've heard people say do what you're not good at. There's not truth that. Like if you're, you're not good at squatting and you're not very strong and you need more strength. They'll be cool. But I don't think that's a great cue because the things that you are good at, you're probably connecting, right, my muscle really great with those. So those exercises that I think should stay and I as a trainer can't possibly know what you connect with. I know what I connect with but I don't know what you're going to take to do T. Barrows. You come out looking like rottings and rottings that group as you pick this parents really, really well. Maybe you picked your parents really shitty. You love them. They're great people. They did a great job. But they're genetic predisposition sucks. I don't know. That's my approach. 99% of the time I respond to and I have a lot of clients who don't like that. They want me to say do this, do this exercise and then do this exercise after all. And I do not like doing that. Yeah. Yeah. I try to tell people like what we're trying to achieve in that exercise. You know what I mean? And I'll give examples like you know for instance we're Fort Elbows 45 degrees something that feels good like a for instance a chess supported T. Barrow or cable seated K. You know that I'll give ideas for no hammer strength pull versus tell him like I want you to use this machine. You know somebody else does in the stream. I don't know if you guys have had any other thoughts on it. We had talked about it once before. Have any of you coaches had experience with people using five amino M1Q and what were your thoughts on that. I think I shared my experience before. How about you Andrew? Well, I'm given another go actually and a couple weeks but I've actually done a lot of research recently and I did a consult with Keith from Parabolic. Nice. First off, very rarely do I walk away and be like I think that guy's a genius. He's a smart dude. He and it's not like he's reading off a teleprompter. Like he's passionate. He's very passionate about the compounds that he that he knows about that he talks about and that he works with. Anyone that's he does consults, anyone that's thinking about doing it, it would not be money that was wasted for I could tell you that right now. And he literally advised people too. Yes, that's what I'm getting at. Yeah. But anyway, I think a lot of people using five amino M1Q were probably underdocing it in previous experiments Okay, then maybe I was because I got absolutely nothing out of it and I really tried to give it a fair shake. What do we need? I'm thinking probably about 150 milligrams a day. Okay, I did 100 and I think I went to a hundred twice but I don't quote me on that. Yeah, I'm thinking 150 probably for most let's say 185 to 220 pound males and maybe a little bit more for guys that are heavier. Okay. I have no experience with it at all. All right. Yeah, I got I just think get anything from it and it's after I stopped the SLU. I was like, all right, I need something else that I'm going to try next and I've had this sitting here burning a hole in my desk because it wasn't in my pocket. It was on my desk. I know they say like burn in a hole in your pocket, but that was a very skip statement. Wasn't it? Yeah, it was like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I felt like it's got there for me just shut up skin. What's the best ratio for tested master on? What's the best ratio? Yeah, people like ratios. As much as you can afford. Yeah. I mean, well here's the thing like I might do well with the one of one where someone else might need like a 1.5 to one for instance and testosterone master on. But what do you would you go on? I would go on the one. Typically one the one. Typically one the one is like a starting point. I don't think you go wrong by trying out a one to one, right? That's right. But again, everyone's individual chemistry is a little different and how your body reacts to it, you know, someone might feel that they need to bump their test up a little bit more. Maybe a couple extra 100 milligrams of testosterone versus a master on is what I'm saying. Yeah. I think that's a fair for yeah, I might not do 1,500 mega master on if I'm doing 1,500 testosterone. But I do love my master on when I'm running TRT. My TRT is almost always testosterone master. I do like it and it's funny because it just tell my wife she's like, wow, she's got your energy back and everything else and you're back and good spirits and stuff relative with work. I'm like, come on TRT now. Good to go. I've had a few carbs. I'm good. All right. I've got a physique critique force and this is a guy that we talked about a while back and so what he's done is he's 24 weeks now. We did a physique critique at him and by the way, anybody who's part of Patreon, if you guys want to get a physique critique, just let me know. I think that somebody commented over on Patreon today saying, hey, how do I get a critique? All message you will get it sorted out. We'll get you on the next one. Jacob is his name and he says, you guys did a unique critique for me 24 weeks back in the podcast. Just finish an offseason program and wanted to do an update critique. I'd really like to hear Andrew and Skips opinions on it. I love your mind. That out there. I love the feedback right now. They gave me before. He's 22 years old. He's 55. It says, first show has been chosen. This upcoming this upcoming May. So I guess it's May 2026. Just finished my first offseason phase and now I'm beginning a four week mini cut to resensitize and push up again. I really appreciate all that you do and he said, he'll provide the side by side. So I think the before picture here, I'm about to show you guys is what we saw last time and just out the gate, spoiler. I'm kind of impressed here, looking at this progress he's made and looks like 24 weeks. Check this out, guys. You might have the gene? No, yeah. Yeah. And what I'm seeing is when someone's got those big forums and big arms that's usually a kind of a telltale sign. Like, you know what I mean? Small waste. Yep. How much? How much? What's the difference here? I don't think he said the weight. Yated say his weight. As I tell you where my eyes went, my eyes went to those delts. Like holy crap. I think everything improved. Yeah, yeah, no question. But I mean, the first thing I'm like, holy. Here's the other thing though. Make sure you guys resize your pictures properly. No cheating. Okay. But what that said, it's obviously he looks like he's put on 25 pounds of muscle tissue. Yeah. Yeah, he looks good. Jesus. Yeah. Those delts are actually pretty nice. I know, right? Yeah. Yeah. Chastis definitely bigger too. And you know your delts are good when they round out to the back. Oh, yeah. It's got the breed delts. It's a detailed tale sign. I've said before I'll say again. There are no pros with shitty rear delts. Yeah. They're just aren't. Yeah. That's pretty significant. That's a good first blast. I would say so. I would say that from the back, the changes to me are not as impressive as they are from the front. If I'm going to be completely just like brutal here. And I'm not saying he didn't grow from behind. I if I only saw this, I would say, oh, yeah, I definitely see a difference. But to me, seeing him from behind is not doing him the justice. Oh, but I wonder if he was doing him made. I wonder if he was doing a rear double or even a last spread though, because I mean, it is just a relaxed back quarter turn. I mean, yeah, you only really get to see the back and back of this trision. Oops. I'd wonder what that rear double looks like. That's a good point. Yeah. That's that's impressive. That front double is sick. I think my my my main critique is just need a tan. Coming first. Yeah, conscious sleeves off or something when you don't hang that one arm out the window or your truck while you're driving. Super impressive. I can't really find a critique to say, hey, you got to fix this or you're going to work on that. It's everything's growing in my opinion. Yeah, there's in there's really no layering weakness. The D C one. The fact that kept his waist nice and small. I know, right? Yeah. It's actually just look smaller because he's made his what has dealt some wider. So it really does. Yeah, I mean, I'm going to call it now, you know, whatever show you're doing as long as it's not national's for your first show, you're probably your if you come in condition of a physique like this was going to win a class. I want to give him something. So I'm just going to say it. I really do feel that I mean, I see the difference in his back. And I'm not, I don't want to take anything away from the progress he made because his back is definitely bigger. I just feel that his arms, his chest and everything else from the front. It looks to me so much more impressive. I feel like they grew at a slightly faster rate. That's all I'm going to say. I don't know, man. I disagree. I think like, again, you got to resize the picture so that they're equal. I think if he was resize, you'd be like, oh, I see it a little bit more now because look at the density's got in his lower lumbar now. You know, I was thinking the same thing. There's like no, I mean, I'm not trying to, you know, I don't want to that sound shitty. But the latter kind of not existent in the before. Yeah. Now it could be a little bit of lighting because, you know, the left picture has shaded a little bit more than the right, but damn, even even the legs, the thickness left to right in the legs. And we all know calves don't matter anymore. So he's good with that. You know, the others know dramatic change in the calves, but should not be in judge on that anymore. 20, 20 pairs and pissed about it if he's looking at the same thing. Yeah. There's an outdated reference for you to have to be around for a while to get that one. Well, we can get greeted disagree. I'm going to give, I want to give him something. No, you're just wrong. I win a statement. You're just wrong. What's this? This is Jacob. Jacob little. Jacob, if you need a coach from here. Do you got the potential man? Yeah, I don't think Andrew over Scott. I just think Andrew's more positive right now. All right. So we had him. And then we have another one. We will get to that on the next show. And yeah, if you guys have any critics that you want to do hit me up over on Patreon, we'll be happy to talk to you. Can I throw something real quick, Scott? Yeah. Yes. 5 pound tub of team skip protein from true nutrition because I've got, you know, so much because I couldn't use protein powder when I was in this last breath. God, oh, guys are dicks. So I've got this surplus of protein. All you have to do. First one to comment what the B stands for. Five pounds of teams get protein. Oh, wow. And the life's true. It's total fitness. Doesn't matter. Damn it. I got to give me a whole ounce of protein. Yeah, in the life feed or how about on YouTube. Yeah, when it comes out, when it comes out, that sounds good. It gives people incentive to comment on the show. That's great. What about this one? Hey, Jens. I really enjoyed these episodes since I found the channel a few months at months ago. Thanks for all the useful info and entertainment. I have a question about skin while I'm gear. I mean, my 40s now and always had bad acne into my late 20s. I've been in running cycles regularly for the past 12 years. I would always get mild acne across my shoulders and in places where I sweat a lot through the day. I work construction. So sweating is an all day thing for me. For the last year, maybe a bit longer. I've been getting these hard lumps in my skin. More like cysts than Zits. Not a lot, but a few on my back and a couple on my lat, a couple on my chest. Have any of you dealt with this? Any advice on how to treat them or to stop them from occurring as well as advice on keeping my skin smooth and clear would be greatly appreciated. Thank you guys. I would look at God health. I was there with the immune system and you know, typically like someone has leaky gut. You'll kind of see this go hand in hand. Whether someone's using PEDs or not. So I would look at that. I would look at thyroid health. And there's a great test. I don't know if you guys do these, but GI maps. You guys every have clients do those. I've seen them before. Yeah, yeah. Some I'm familiar with them. I probably do at least two or three a week, but oh, okay. Yeah, no. So you know, there's a lot of times there's got this biosis just from overgrowth of opportunistic bacteria and it causes inflammation. It messes with the gap, gap junctions of the, the, um, the coastal cells, causing things to leak out, inflammation. So that would be one thing to probably investigate. If this is a chronic thing for him for his whole life, the test is about 385, I think. And then there's people like myself that can do analysis for you. If you'd, if you'd want to purchase that, but, um, and come up with like a whole gut cleansing plan to see if that helps. And a lot of times, I've, primarily with females, but females are a little more into the skin health than, than males are. They're going to show up the money and follow through with a gut plan to clear it up. So that'd be my first, you know, I used to just say, well, either get it or you don't until I really started researching and learning about, um, you know, the GI system and that mean. I'm going to go with what I always go with. I'll say nine out of ten times B5, taking consistently will help decrease C bomb, which is the oil, the skin produces, and that can help dramatically the vast majority of time. It's something that even thankfully dermatologists have gone to prior to prescribing acutane, which is a think it's funny because they're probably losing out and not prescribing acutane as much, but acutane being so harsh, you know, on the liver, um, B5 not, and it's super freaking cheap. Use that first try that out, and I'm not saying that it's not a gut issue. It may well be a gut issue. I will be the first to admit that this will be the first time that I am looking for someone to help me with, because I developed white and issue with the stench in this last year, uh, through dieting and everything else. There is something going on with information and everything else. So I am looking into that. So there is validity in that. Don't get me wrong. But the one thing I can say is even though I've had all that, though all those gut issues, I don't break out. Shit, it doesn't matter if I take a ton of stuff, a little bit of stuff coming on, coming off. I just don't break out, and I have used gear for a very long time. So I'm one of those people who are fortunate enough that I don't get those sides, but apparently I don't get the sides to grow like a freak either, so there's that. Maybe I just need to take even more. I'm not sure if would you, would you compromise, skip? If we were like, listen, there's a secret we can bless you with the gene now in your later life that you will become a freak, but you also have to deal with terrible, cystic acne. Would you take both? Oh, terrible, cystic acne. Just on your shoulders, in your back. I would, I'll tell you what I would do. I would take the freak, and then I would decide if it was too bad, and then if it was too bad, I'd be like, I've done being a freak down. I just want to know what it feels like to be a freak. I've spent a lot of years trying to get there, and I had not gotten there. So yeah, you could there, you're like, I didn't want this anyway. Exactly. I get a figure, I'm already married, it's not like I'm single, and I'm looking for someone to sleep with, my already married, and don't have anybody to sleep with me. So it is what it is. At the end of the day, I got five cats. They're super cool. They love them. They're great. Do you have a word of the day for us? I do. I can actually, I want to contrast the two. I'm always prepared. I appreciate the chasmy. I forget. I know you don't remind me. I want to contrast arduous with as Siduous, because they're so close. Arduous, I mean, you know, an arduous task. Basically, it's just difficult. It's tiring. It is matlaborious. Laborious. A lot of people screw that up. Arduous and laborious are not the same. Laborious is essentially something that is physical to take so long time. But arduous is more. It's just like exhausting. It's just, and it can be even mentally exhausting. But a Siduous showing great care and attention to detail, diligent, and persistent. So they're both very arduous, a Siduous. Not that people screw it up like they're in there. It's not like they're messing up hominems here, but it would, which they do. But they're close. They're not the same thing. So there's your, you get two, actually you get three today. Yeah, it's a great word. And I did it pretty quick, which is not commoner cared for a couple of things that I do. Sidious, you want to think. Anyway, you're bringing any donuts with you to the show? No, I did get the donut thing out of the way. I only had about three solid days of just eating like a sloth. Yeah. Yeah. And didn't last very long. I'm like, okay, now I pretty much had my fill of cookies and crap and stuff like that. And got back into the gym and feel ten times better. They had these donuts when I was in Vancouver, Skip. There is this little donut shop that I guess that they were very well-known all throughout Vancouver. And it wasn't, the place looked like it was from the sixties. They sold coffee and they also had like, it was kind of weird because there's, there's a lot of like a big Asian population in Vancouver too. So you could get like various different Asian dishes as well as they had donuts. And you could get coffee. It was very out of the ordinary. It wasn't like your traditional donut shop. It wasn't a hipster donut shop. But there is this one donut and it's like an Asian fruit that's purple. Ub, Ube, Ube, Ube. Yeah. Ube. I got an Ube, don't it? Ube, cream. Yeah. It was like a purple light purple. Right. Pretty good, wasn't it? It was too much cream. Oh, okay. Okay. But the thing, yeah. And now I have to say it, right. It's kind of like a Lamborghini. I called it a U-Rose. It's not a U-Rose. It's an U-Rose. Is that how you say it? Yeah. It was in an article that I gave to lead after yes and she kept changing A for Anne. And I'm like, what are you doing? You don't ever correct my, and then I looked it up, but I, you know, how you can look up the word and it'll say how to pronounce it. And I felt like an asshole, like, well, every now and then even I'm right and for a long time for a machine I show bots me every down then. But yeah, it's, you said it's Ube, Ube, Ube. Ube. Yes. Okay. Yes. And I was with Asian people. So there, they would know. I suppose. Yeah. But it's actually one of those trendy things like you. I'm sure you've seen Dubai. Everything is Dubai chocolate. Oh, even Dubai, pistachio. Everything has to be divided. They're running into the ground. Ube is starting to pick up that transit with donuts and cookies too. But done right, it's actually a pretty, pretty damn good flavor. Yeah. It was all right. It just was too much cream. It was like so much cream that it ended up being more cream than donut after two bucks. What caught your eye though? The fact that it was purple, right? Yeah. Yeah. It was different. I've never seen it. I had to try it. Yeah. Yeah. Let's go. Okay. Let me try it again. I tried again. Yeah. Guys, go to uh, trainutrition.com user code thinkover their supplement source.ca for Canadians. Of course, thank you for all your sport over at Patreon. We're going to have Patreon questions as well as another physique critique on the next show. Head over to bodybarry.com to reach out to Andrew for coaching team skip that. Com to reach out to skip hit me up. Now he diets at jumelle.com and for another episode of Blood Sweat and Gear Guys, we will see you soon. Ube is a sweet potato ding. Did you say sweet potato? Yeah. For that. No, kid. I wonder because I'm like, I have seen purple sweet potatoes. But I need to see purple sweet potatoes too. Put it together. How'd you do? Okay. Didn't I know that? But yeah, it's definitely some of the cooking companies that I'm critiquing. They'll have a new Ube. Yeah. I'm going to get in my U-RUS. No, I can't afford a new. But if I could, I would get in my U-RUS drive, drive down the don't show I'm getting an Ube. What you did in the car, though? No. Well, I would because if I had an U-RUS, I would have somebody, I would have enough money to pay someone to clean it on a daily or weekly basis. I'd probably just eat everything in the car. There's that. Yeah, you'd do everything to the lizard thing. What's going to jump straight into the store? Yeah. You don't do that? You don't have one like that? You don't do the lizard. I don't know. I got to get the other lizard. I want to see you talk. I'm good without it. Do I have porn tongue today? Is it all white and chalky? Oh, no. No, it's loose wet. That's wet again. Move your microphone closer. All right. We get this thing rolling guys.

How does it feel going back and see in this again after all these years? I just love it because of the fact that it reminded me of why I clicked into it. Like I could see people watching this, this react video and wanting to go watch this whole video and the curiosity rising of this kind of training again because it is a very well-thought-out progressive overload system that absolutely works and we said last week. I mean, I looked nothing like his physique when I started and outside of genetic differences a lot like it when I was done. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building Reacts. Big Ron Parlo, Dusty Han Shah, The Producer Scott McNally, remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes, I am mutant.com, born hard core, get your all and get your ISO surge. And everyone get on the gear, go to I am mutant.com, use Dusty 20 Big Ron 20. Just in Harris and Steve Cuclowe, Project Super Heavyweight, we have talked about this many times. The members of this. Just in Harris, Steve Cuclowe, this is our training video. We have a few days of training, good old and 627. We prepare for our upcoming current test. I'll be doing the 2006 USA, 27 USA. I'll be doing the 2007 North Americans, this kind of September. They are training, no, no friends, nothing fancy. Grace, what are your future? Warm up fans, thank you. I'm just going to follow a three-day split. We do squats, my first lay day. Next day is Cheshaw's and Tri-Self. What do we gym, they were at here, what powerhouse this was? This is my neck of the woods. They turned together for a few years by this point. Yeah. And YouTube had become a thing in 05, YouTube had started and they upload this stuff and make it an upload it in 07. Okay. Okay. Let's see, we get past there, they've got some legs here. Is there anything in particular you guys want to see with legs and you can watch session? I know the squat session is going to be silly. I have a lead off of the calf's always then, uh, hands and then right into the compound movement. In every powerhouse gym around here had that exact equipment. Like all the same machines they had, all of these exact same things. Other of those plates, that's what my goal is to have to. Yeah. Plates ever. Man. You could you could tell how it just Dante was really big on taking a wide stance and squatting between your legs. Like, yeah, just dropping in between to get ad-actor in the quad, get just as much muscle activation as possible. So when you watch Justin versus Steve, you'll see Justin's got a real wide base. I see that one. So I saw Steve Cookelow compete a year before this at the Motor City. I mentioned that to you guys before. Oh wait, it was just a second. I got a wide cup of high-dane 10-grant, a red sheet of amino acids. Five beers of all Lucy and J.G.R.S.P.D. Back in the branch gym days. This is back in the branch chain days before we had the EA. Any city ants in hydroway in there too? Yeah. I needed before I come to the gym. I'll sip on that thing my workout. And then I'll show my course workout shake. We got home. So young there. Damn, okay. So he's on his way up here. So what's he do with four plates on his way up? It's just a touch. So he's two couple reps. You know, four, three. Look how easy that is. Three. Four. There we go. So four with a pause. Yeah. Everything about the DC training is just progressively feeling the weight on the way up. But you don't want to waste any gas. Yeah. I still am not a fan. I'm not a fan of one, two, and even I'm not a big fan of three reps. One of sets. I'm just like move. I like movement. I like greasing up the movement, you know. So you're old. I'm. Yeah. I do the same now. So there you go. Yeah. Yeah. So I saw a cook low. It was 2006 the year before this. And he just walked through the show at the Motor City Muscle contest. We do a higher than 10 C-star training. But DC training for the most part. And so I want much of just the abuse to the weight. We'll do it. We don't want to try to tell ourselves that. You just kind of double reps, make sure we're accustomed with the weight. You're turning that up a little bit, Scott. Yeah. You got those two quiet? I'll turn up more next time. For me. Yeah, yeah. Well, if you can't hear it, then they probably can't hear it either. Yeah, yeah. I could hear it, but I like Dusty says. Very. Okay. So five plates. Yep. Probably do like three reps. Two. Three. Okay. So five plates is a warm up. Okay. So five plates is a warm up. Okay. Yeah. I think they know it would be a pleasure for your brain. Yeah. Okay. This is just us getting warm. You know, I'm really serious. Steven's a 17 years old here. It looks like a meal. Yeah. He looks like a child. He's still missing. Right now to do this. That's so good. He looks like the chin. The thing he's got is chin. He looks like this kid that I used to know that drove a low rider. Okay. There you go. Two. I don't. So Steve's going up to. Geez. Okay. The kid can squat. Here we are. You know. We can play. Last week we tried to progress each week. Last year we got a 585 for eight. We typically try to stick around four to six reps. First range set. We'll do a back off set of 10 to 12. So I did eight with six plates. So I was debating whether to go all the way up to 635. But I don't want to only get three reps. Hopefully, shoot for somewhere in four to six reps today was 6 to 5. And we still try and go deep. We never try to sacrifice for him. We will go up and lay it. Now the fun begins. Those of you who have done 635, I think I did 3 to 4 at my peak last year. So this would be pretty close to most of your guns. So it's a good travel point. Alright, 605. Now. Keep in mind that's actually about 900 pounds because he's wearing shoes. So look at those wraps. That's squatting between his knees. Down between his knees. Four. Five. Nice. Damn. So the idea here with these is he doesn't want to get any help from Steve. So it's like a sushi captain that sets down. Some sure people like, oh, he could have had more. He doesn't want to need a spot for more. Help him for a 46 reps. That's. Yes, that's. So. That's a good progression. We just focused on small changes every week. We are. We go very hard, very heavy. We're ready for four to eight weeks. And then we back off. We're ready for one to three weeks. We rest up every cover. And then we'll start off a little bit lower and wake when we hit. We'll go back up in my end of the four to eight weeks. We'll be up at a new previous best hopefully. That's how you get better. You can get better. We're going to. We're going to. Five. Plains today. I'm going to warm up without raps. We do five. Play for a set. Always wrap. Because we're going towards that. It's going to be in a four. And so. What we do is. We we typically do rest. Postering. We're trying to rest. Poster. 600 pounds. So I went and did five or six raps. Racket take 10 breaths. And try to do more raps. And then take. But I can take 15 breaths. And try to do more after really be. Impossible. Really. It's unsafe. That was great. So you're going to. Brush pause on our. I have a movement like squats and deadlets. We'll do a heavy set of around four to six raps. And then. We'll do a back off set of 10 to 12 reps. I can't remember the last time I did four to six on squats. Yeah. I know. That's what I'm thinking. Like that's an untouched range for a long time for me. Man he looks like a kid. Yeah, he really does. It's crazy to think how far a cook low took his physique from. Man from here, you know. Yeah, that's a maximal set. He's maxing out for sure every rep. Yeah. So now we have to do our next set. Which would be a back off set of 10 to 12 reps. The last thing I did, finally, it's designed for 12. I've got 12 reps last time. I've got 10 reps last time. It's 12 reps and about up on it. So I don't want to be five plates again and get, you know, maybe 13 reps. So probably somewhere around 535-50 will be huge for 10. Okay, I'm going to try this for around 545. That was when we had a lot of time. We could get a break after our main set and win a draw. Oh, go. So he said he did 5 plates for 16 before. So he's going to do this this week. Yeah. One, two, three, four, five, shit. Oh, it was just popping, yeah. He wants me around 12 here. Man, it's the only guy that touched. Let's tell you, watch this dusty because I know this meant a lot to you back in the day, and this was real formative. Yeah, back then, I mean, I watched it to learn when I first used this. Yeah. And it was also good not just from the stance of watching how they were doing it, but getting a better understanding of like the progression. They didn't really good job. I think of explaining this for a video that was not meant to be 100% informative, you know? Yeah. To gather an idea based on what he gave you here if you paid attention. Yeah. But it's, yeah. Yeah. Watch it since then. I mean, okay. Watch it multiple times back then. And then once I nagged Dante and to work him with me, I didn't need it anymore. Yeah. Yeah. How does it feel going back and see in this again after all these years? I just love it because of the fact that it reminded me of why I clicked into it. Like I did see people watching this, this react video. And wanting to go watch this whole video and the curiosity rising of this kind of training again because, you know, it is a very well thought out progressive overload system that absolutely works. We said last week. I mean, I looked nothing like his physique when I started and outside of genetic differences, a lot like it when I was done. You know, credited with the training. Yeah. Yeah. No. Productive. And those are those calves that became like some of the craziest calves ever seen in my life. Cooke low. A few guys have never seen shorts up close. Just always had the craziest calves. So he's just going to crush four and a half or five. So much more confident with this weight, too. You know, oh yeah. And it's not like it's that much lighter. There's something great though, I think anybody who does back offsets can kind of test to is, you know, when you go from your heaviest and drop back, suddenly that very heavy weight because it's 40 to 90 pounds lighter feels like a feather in comparison. Yeah. Because you unwraker like, oh good. Good. This is light. It's like a light. Just lighter. Yeah. And now do they do a widow maker now? I don't know if he does this video. Usually you would. Does I know that 20 rep widow maker usually comes in. Yep. He's doing that. This is cardio. Four or 500 pounds a bag. Trying to take a breath. It's just don't want to do it. Just hold the weight of the child from that point. Get your people say, you know, we're resting between reps and catch a breath. But just hold 500 pounds any breath. Yeah. Yeah. You gotta breath. Sit a really good much, much rest of catch a breath. And now we'll be doing our widow maker standing in the last few squats. Not shoes for 20 reps. This way, when it came to watch. This is for 20 reps. I can't treat my quad. It's not my last set of five weights. It's like a five-bit beat. It's not going to just sit on a four-fiber 20. It's not going to fit. It's going to fit. It's going to fit. Don't breathe. Catch your breath first. Go. Go that body for the last. And let's go. Watch how light this looks. It's like a five-foot lift. It's like a four-fiber lift. I'm like four or five looks like after. You have six. Good God. He's going to do it. He's going to do it. He's going to do it. He's going to do it. He's going to do it. Good God. He's going to do it. Go. Go that. Go that. Go that. Every rep would use that for the same. I love his squat stance. Go. He's pointed out a little bit. It's climbing down between his knees. That's total weight. Go that one. Go that one. He's going. He's going. That's 16 before he needed a pause. Yeah. And this is how the Widowmakers worked. They're like this when you come for his, you know, meetings, pause and then keep going. And now forcing his men as he can here is a 18. And the only reason he stopped there was to be It meant the last one. There was, you know, slightly affected his quad on the last set. Yeah. Because there was a little more left there. You know, Wind was more of a problem of strength. Yeah. Just go set. Especially after all those six hundred pounds. And I fit to put it all in the mouth. The cows are catching the food. Yeah. It's time to talk. He's still, I was ready. He still came, yeah. He's still came pretty close to failure there. I mean, I don't know how many reps in his. Yeah. You know what? You're not calling that reserve. Yeah. That's how long you're going to hold your breath. Yeah. Yeah. 20 minutes of cardio. And after all, Katie's sessions. I've been through to the cardio in the morning. Well, if I have a treadmill home, but we had a three-month-old. And then one and a half year-old. And it's not fair to remember. It's really possible to do cardio with my family because they get up so early. I'd have to get up and record a cardio. And if I'm only talking about the data play with them. Justin was doing his cardio for the press. He would hold his daughter in his hands and walk her to do cardio. So it actually won't be a little bit of a backward car. Hold 20 pounds. That. That's funny. Just driving him out, boom. I'm wondering how people are going to ask about because we had it muted. Why he wrapped his hips. I've had to do that before when I had a hip flexor issue. For whatever reason, just throw in the pressure on it. It seemed to help. But I only had it on one side. So I went with the L.O. Cool J.Syle and just did the one up. You know? Yeah. You can be wrapped around his hips for some reason. Yep. Yeah. I used Brian and I'm out. I'm getting 20. Amen. 405 for 20 is no joke. No kidding. No. Especially after a couple of maximal sets. I feel like we're going back in one time here too. This is what the gym used to look like back then. For me, this was literally like my gym kind of look in. These are the clothes everybody wore to the gym. This is the people you saw at the gym. So what's this in other leg? No, that was it. I think it's changed. He just put a different. He's marketing. All of this. Oh. Yeah. I'm confused. This must be their showing their other workouts because yeah, that would be that would be it. You wouldn't be going back. I think that's really what we came for. Wasn't it to see that? It came for this. Is there anything else you guys want to see in this? I mean, it's a freaking, they've got the full thing up here. Literally hours long of the entire project super heavyweight for anybody wants to watch this. They're back days further up. Got chest in there. Yeah. No, it's a great little video. Yeah. The chest is equally funny. It's like the, you know, he benches. I don't know what he benches for his working sets. And then it's a 20 rep widow makers with 350. Yeah. It was like. All prosthetic. That's a little bit of trial in one day. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, those were good times man. And like I said, those guys trained together for a while. And I, I'm positive there was footage of them on like the message boards. The message boards pre 2005. I'm sure that's where I first saw their footage because I remember the phenomenon of like, you know, seeing Kouklo is like a young kid like that. Yeah. But Justin can just think and fix any of our, or you know, as time goes on, we lose track of one, seven, half and Justin, if Justin ever comes on the show, we can definitely straight note exactly when the timeline was with all that stuff is cool. It was a great era. Yeah. And you know, the dawn of like the information age of body building, you know, like, to have that DVD because that was what that was like to see that at the time, would it, like we didn't get to see the guys trained. Like we weren't able to watch everyone train until this, you know what I mean? And it was so valuable to us. Like we'd be like, you know, people take it for granted now. But we would watch that scene like 10 times just to see like how are the hips moving? And relation to the knees and where is feet? And you know, that sort of stuff. And now like people just go, yeah, guys, quite heavy, guys, quite heavy, guys, quite heavy, because you're so bombarded. Yeah. So it was the appreciation era. You know, appreciation and motivation. That's for sure. Okay. Well, let's see what comes to that one. It's always fun watching those old videos. And like you said, if it's not just for the hair styles and the little soul patch, it's just a bit on there. The flavor saver. The flavor saver. Yeah. Okay. So remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Ring the bell. That's right. Remember, I am mutant.com, born hardcore. Get your all and get your ice surge and everyone should get on the gear. Dusty 20, big round 20. You know the codes. Yes. Thanks. See you again, guys. It's just bodybuilding. Reacts. Thank you.

I have someone else's sweat in my eye. A lot of other people sweat in your eye. I have someone spit in my mouth. Oh, I have someone's in sweat down the side of my face. I just got a shoe in the ear. Yeah. And I remember just thinking, this is the point where I'm a little too old for this. You had enough. Hey, everybody. Welcome to It's Oat. I'm going to bring my microphone over a little more. Get that. That sounds better. Yes. Right kind of in front of the Les Paul. It's got a little. That's a proud right. Just a little block out the Les Paul. Okay. Okay. Hey, everybody. Welcome to It's just bodybuilding