of It's Just Body Building. My friend Dusty Han-chan, myself, big round part, low. Welcome fitness Olympia Champion, Missy Truscott to the episode on It's Just Body Building. Dusty, I'm what's good word. I'm doing pretty good. We got another Olympiac Shamp on today. Yeah, I had to beg, send money, there was a lot of things that went on. I heard it went differently than that. So, valid. She was actually, she listens to the show as part of her prep, which basically means we won an Olympia. That's how I look at it. It freaks me out and I find it hard to believe, but it's nice to be able to say. Yeah, I asked her three questions just to make sure that she got them all right. Yeah, I was like, okay. You're trustworthy. Okay. So, yeah, now we got her on the board. We got a lot of questions for her, which is good to see. And we have more lady followers than I thought, because my DMs kind of lit up with the fact that we have a female on the show. So, good news. Yeah, there's some appreciation out there. So, before we get going, got to do the like, share, subscribe, comment, ring the bell, all that stuff. Early on in the episode. Make sure we get that out there, insert, fancy graphic. Yeah, except for episode. We got this shit ready now. It's amazing. You know, by the time we get to 100, it'll probably, well, possibly look like we're not what we're doing. We're at least it's got us tamed it in some way. Or it's got us hired someone to just do it for him. We'll see. We'll see. Okay. Okay. Let's bring Miss Yon with no further edu. Oh, that word. That's my French accent, Dusty. We're selling. There she is. So, congratulations. I mean, obviously, you know, dream come true. All the hard work, all the mental chats. You probably have it yourself for a long time. How does it feel now to sit back and just sort of be the champ for a couple of weeks? Thank you. Yeah. It's starting to really sink in now. It's been like a super long journey. It's funny because like Dusty is someone I actually watched on YouTube growing up in Canada. You know, back when you're with I-Force. I would watch like your YouTube video. So, it's super like, it's just kind of like a full circle. Like everything's kind of like coming back around and getting more like recognition from people and, you know, They're recognizing the hard work I've put in. But, yeah, you know, this is just kind of like the beginning now. You know, being Miss Fitness Olympia and winning the Arnold Classic, too. It's kind of like a new fire inside of me where it's like now I need to work harder. Like there's these younger girls kind of on my tail now. And it's like, it's freaking go time. Like, I'm ready. Yeah. Tell us how you got started in competing. I know you're from Canada. Yeah. But yeah, so how did you actually get on stage to begin with? So I started lifting when I was like 17ish. I was a competitive gymnast and cheerleader. And then from there I trained for probably a solid two years. And then I started competing at the, like, Now it's called CPA, but at the time it was a year in Ontario. So I competed like at the regional level. And then I went to provincials all within a summer. And then one of my pro card in 2012 in New Westminster. British Columbia. Out and out in my neck of the woods. Right. Right. Yeah. You got your pro card at the Nationals out here. So, so that was quite the. The metal ceremony. Yeah. I was a little rattled because, you know, you have to be a good. You got to be able to lose to right. Like in that moment, I knew in my heart I freaking dominated the physique ground. Like I knew, you know, that they would have to, like really execute their routines on Sana and Whitney to be in that first place. And I knew I brought it to. So the judges do have a hard job. I wouldn't want to be a judge. So in that moment on stage, one Bob called me for second. You know, I was just kind of like, well, it is what it is. Like I have a great support system. Like my husband loves me no matter what. It's not like the money is going to change my life. It is a lot of money, but we're fine, you know, like I do this because I love to compete. I don't do it for the money. So at the time, I was just kind of like, oh crap, I guess we'll get another second place medal. I'll have to try harder next year. Like, yeah. She beat me it is what it is. But when Bob called me back and took the medal back, I was like, okay. What's happening now is Whitney moving up and my moving down, like, something's happening. And I guess people in the audience started filming my husband because he, like, stood up. And he was like, pacing back and forth and Kenny gone. We're like doing the same thing. They were like all yelling in the audience. So yeah, it was pretty cool. You're talking about Kenny from the posing coach, right? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So you work with him the whole time. He's he's awesome. He's the best. I mean, like, I, when I lived in Connecticut, I would go and see him at the, super training gym and the powerhouse. And yeah, he's just awesome. He's so passionate. And yeah, he's great. If you haven't posed with him or your listeners, I definitely recommend he does do like Skype calls and stuff. So, he's great. So you're standing there. They call you back. Didn't Dana say something to you? Didn't deal be say something to you? Um, her or say something. Yeah, she, um, she was like, I think you're okay. I think you're okay. And I'm like, all right. Don't know what that means. And then I can hear other girls on the stage. Like, you got Stephen Harvey, and all this. And I'm like, who's Stephen Harvey? Like, I can get. So I'm waiting for these memes to come out. Nothing has come out yet. But yeah, it was really funny. Yeah, we were watching at home and we, we immediately thought, you know, this has to be a first. There's no way they're going to like bump down. Right. So yeah, you know, everyone was really happy to see that win. Did you feel like, um, you feel like the crowd was really happy for you? I think so. Yeah. Cause like, when they call me second, I heard booze and like, what the heck? Like, yelling and stuff. And I'm like, okay, like, keeps my lean. It's okay. Like it's fine. Whatever you get it checked. You got a cool metal. Like it's all good. And then when they call me back, I heard more booze and I'm like, are they mad about Oksana? Like, what's happening? But as of right now, like, you know, we all work really hard to be that entertainment factor for the, like, whether it's the Mr. Olympia or the Arnold sports festival. So, you know, hats off to all the fitness girls who bring it because, you know, we fricking train hard just as hard as everyone else. And a lot of us have some crazy injuries that were working through. So it's just, that's always my argument with that is you guys have to have the same conditioning as the rest of us. But then also put on a routine like that. And I'm like, I'm just happy I can walk across the stage and kind of get it done exhausted. I can't imagine being like, oh, now, act like you feel as good as you've ever felt. And you've been eating and then put on this routine and just practice it for months on end. You know, I, I always say that by the time I get to the show, I would always be so banged up that I would like have to make a decision on whether I was going to do any kneeling twisting poses in my routine or not. And if I was healthy, I do like a kneeling shot and if I wasn't healthy, I wouldn't kneel. And then I see the fitness, the fitness competitor just come out and just, you know, and I just think, man, this is a different world. So John matters as my coach and Terrence, rough diesel on Instagram. He was up in our sweet doing some like posing and stuff like John. And like his body, like how you were saying, like, you're just kind of like completely dead. His body was like pop pop pop pop pop. As he would like start flexing like crack crack crack crack crack crack. Oh, damn, like, but he was peeled. He looked really good. But yeah, it's, you know, it's crazy because I do train like a bodybuilder under John, you know, we're doing like push pull legs. My off season because I had to bring up my back to be competitive with against socks on and Whitney. We did a like a phase where it was six weeks of back three times a week. It was just a couple of intense, so intense. And then the legs was like six weeks, three days a week of legs. My dream we weren't squatting every, every third day or whatever. It was like maybe once a week. But you know, it was hard. Like I freaking killed it. But I'm glad to be, I'm glad that you're all like paid off, you know, what, what was the first thing John Meadows said? When he talked to him. When I, when I won, yeah, he, he, he, I think he knew when his heart that I was going to win. Like even on all my training, like plans and everything he would put like a limp year when he, he believed in me a lot and same with my husband. It's just kind of like having that belief in yourself. And I think why I play second last year was because I knew, I think deep down in my heart that I really wasn't there mentally to be the champ. And I think we saw that too. Whereas now I have more like this confidence and I'm ready to be an ambassador of sport. And I think they really rewarded me with that. And I, you know, just brought a whole new level of myself. Yeah, I thought you're, you're just going to be a little bit more like, I mean, the physique was kind of, I hate to not not a sharpening else, but I knew before the show you would win those physique rounds. Was it a little bit, um, I don't know, exciting or little extra, um, not, not in a bad way, but in a positive way that oxana and you work together to bring up your routine and then that ends up being the reason that you're able to, to win. I mean, essentially you were winning the physique round in my opinion for a couple of years. So thank you. Um, so oxana and I work together for the Arnold, which is March. Um, she helped me with my intro of the routine, which was great. She's, you know, very artsy and we have very different styles. Yeah. So, um, as I, you know, started getting ready for the Olympia, um, I just knew that like I wasn't going to use her, obviously, because she's my competition. Right. That really worked. Right. Um, so yeah, I meant to me, I knew I wasn't going to use her and we just have different styles. I, uh, yeah, I just, uh, sorry. What was the question again? No, basically just how was it? I mean, having, because she had to essentially step away from the sport and then you did some work with her. And obviously, you know, she's an icon on the sport. And now here you are, you're fast forward. And it's like, you know, now you're, you're, it kind of you said it's a full circle. Now you're beating people who you used to look up to. And even, and even that helped you in some way along the way, even if it's not used now, is that just kind of extra, um, I don't know, like, there's something you look at in your man, like, I've arrived. I'm competing with and even beating people I've looked up to for years. I mean, they were around for a long time when you were, you know, shooting up the ranks like you said essentially you were to them what you're looking back at now is the, uh, the hungry ones coming up, you know. Right. For sure. Yeah. No, it's definitely like something that's, it's like a huge accomplishment for myself. I, I talked to Whitney Jones about it. Her and I kind of had like a little heart to heart. She was, uh, two-time in Colombia. Also someone I've, like, really looked up to in the sport. Um, we always stay in contact, but I said to her, like, do you know what I'm sorry? Like, I kind of, like, I feel like bad, you know, because she was the champ, you know? Um, like, no, this is your time. Like, I relish in this, like, enjoy every moment of it. And I'm like, yeah, okay, you're right. So, yeah, I think we, we're all, like, super tight. And we all really genuinely care about each other because we know what we can go through. Um, but it just, you know, matter of time before, you know, the younger people start coming up and, um, really perfect for the physics. It's, uh, it's another reminder, you know, OXNF, you know, working with her and, and getting better and then actually beating her. Um, it's, it's, it's another example of, I think, what, you know, body building, the physique culture has always had in it, which is, people help each other out. And, and it's at all levels. Like, you know, the legendary story of Kevin LeBron helping Ronnie in the hotel room, and then the next day Ronnie beat him for the first time. You know, or, or Phil, you know, Jay, Jay seeing Phil at that show and saying, you could be something special and then he winds up losing the sand out to him, you know, eight years later. And, and, and there's all these stories of like the best people in the world reaching down to help others. And then that turns out to be the next, you know, the next Jedi, you know, sort of thing. And, you know, is that, is that how you, you feel about everything in your sport with the fitness that everyone's like that? Absolutely. And I, I'm really proud for this, the BL alone because I, you probably have like a lot of body builder followers. But what people don't realize is this fitness, Olympia was like the biggest ever. It would be like say, Dorian and Ronnie, we enabled to come back and, like, hunter being able to step on stage with them. You know what I mean? Right. Right. He being able to compete against Oxana, four time, mislead like who can say that they were able to step on stage with Ronnie. Maybe they weren't out there, primary, like, the eighth, but I still got to do it, you know? Like she came out of the fireman. I got to stand next to her. So it's, it's a really, it's a really big deal for me. Yeah. It was, was she the champ when you started training? Yeah. Yeah. Her and a Delagracia were. They were always going back and forth. Amazing. Amazing. That's a full circle right there. You're, you're watching her win when you're getting started. Yeah. So one thing that we love about you, aside from the fact that you actually watch a show, which blew my mind. What's she watches a show? I'm going for my walks and like, listen, well, I listen. I'm like, yeah, listen. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, but the, the other thing that we love about you, well, I guess the Canadian thing I love about you too. So now there's a few things. So, so, uh, it's the training. We know how you train because you train with John. And we know you're doing incline barbell presses. And we know you're doing, like, all sorts of nasty bullshit on like day. And we know that you're lifting heavy weights. And you got, you know, I've seen photos of you with like chalk. And, you know, you're all like going to a bigger, like, uh, the big power bar on the, the big fat part in the middle. You're doing inclines with those one day. Yeah. And thank you. Show the bar. Yeah. And, uh, so, you know, we just love that you train like that. And, and, and, you know, how, how, how is your training evolved to get to that point? You know, you probably get a lot of people who think that it's, they're, they don't want to train like that, but they have to. So, I, I feel like I've always had that like body builder kind of mentality growing up, because I had people like dusty. I would follow on YouTube, um, you know, Jay Cutler, Ronnie. It was just something that I always wanted to do. And I do find like, I release a lot of just like built up anger or whatever kind of in the gym. It's like, I know it's like cliche, but it is kind of like a therapy, right? Um, but it's just something I love to do. I was super competitive with cheerleading and gymnastics. And it kind of rolled me over into this whole realm of like fitness. Um, so I hope that, you know, I can start bringing in younger girls who graduate college and don't have that outlet of gymnastics or cheer anymore. They'll come over into the fitness division. Um, I think a lot of people too, I mean, one thing I hope, and I think you do a pretty good job in it's, it's going to be magnified even more now, because I mean, you won everything, essentially, is that you have a very feminine physique and look top to bottom, but you train like a freak. And I think there's always that crossover where people don't understand that the training is the reason that you can have the muscle mass you have without delving into other things that you don't want to do. You know what I mean? And that's where I feel things get missed is I see girls and I get, you know, obviously clients that will send their training videos and I'm like, was that a warm up? Yes. Like you really want to make sure, like were you sending me a form video because I need to see you train and they're like, no, no, no, that was my sad. I'm like, no. So I mean, I would love to see you guys put out more content showing the training because I think people look at your physique and they don't realize that it's a same intensity of someone like Ron, myself, Kai, or all these guys that people know to be free to create a sculpted physique like yours. You know what I mean? I just feel like a lot of the females want to use a scalpel in the gym when sometimes just sledge hammers what they're looking for. Yeah, wow, that's a really good analogy. And I agree 100% with the energy and I agree 100% with that. You do have to, you have to like, something needs to like switch in your mind where you need to be able to like unleash. And I got that from John. Like there's a lot in the tank that you just need to kind of like empty out. But it is like an everyday, all day, type mentality. You have to make sure that you're eating enough, like if you are in your off season so that you can fuel that workout out and you know make sure that you're not getting injured when you're training but you are lifting heavy. That's one thing I really learned with this off season. Yeah, I had to get a little fluffier but I mean, it is what it is. You still have to like freaking go hard, right? I just love that you said that because it's as you know and I'm sure you get it's everyone wants to remain Instagram ready. But then they wonder why they are down a pound next season when they compete and they look the same or worse. Right. And it's like, but you just set it. You made the short term sacrifice for the long term goal. And that just you know, those are the things that I feel like we kind of try to drive through on the show is what are people not seeing. You know, the training, the eating. I'm sure you don't love you know, being heavier. You love walking on looking like you do now but you want to win. Right. Exactly. And that's the biggest thing. What are you going to like sacrifice to do to win? So, you know, it is hard sometimes mentally right now like putting on like a little bit of weight. And then posting on Instagram like you're not that rip self anymore. But it's like in that moment, yeah, okay, it kind of sucks whatever. But like six months down the road when you're miss fitness Olympia. Like it's all it's all worth it like who cares. You know. So the way you train, you know, I know you're probably doing cluster sets on the Pendulum Squad and all sorts of nasty stuff which is the toe I train too. So how do you manage like, you know, you mentioned injuries earlier. But like how much management of your joints and your wrists and your shoulders and stuff. Did you have to do pretty much all year? You know, what was your routine? So I haven't really talked about this on any like shows or podcast or anything. No one really knows this because that my husband and John, but I did have a shoulder injury, this entire crap. Both elbows are completely shot. Sports, sports shots and stuff. And so I am looking, tomorrow I actually have a doctor's appointment for my last elbow. So I'm hoping that everything's fine with it. But if it's not, this is the perfect time to get it looked at and get it all figured out. But it's the same thing. Like as I get older, like I just have to make sure I'm warming up that my form is good. If certain exercises are hurting it, then I have to kind of take the gas off a little on it and try something else. That's not going to irritate it. But yeah, Dusty, I got to say one thing. You posted a freaking video on YouTube about ham curls. Like maybe two months ago or something. No, maybe about a month ago. You talked about how you drive your pelvis into the pad. I literally had been doing hamstrings. I haven't felt my hamstrings in 17 years until I've got that video. I tell my husband every time I train hamstrings, you just kind of tilt your pelvis in and really squeeze it up and I swear to God, like hamstrings have never felt this good before. It's a wacky thing when you train with weight because when I was younger, I would do like a dumbbell leg curl, you know, with it in your feet. And I'd use like 120 pound dumbbell and I had no hamstrings. And then it clicks one day and also in the 70s kick in the shit out of you. You can barely get the reps because you're doing it right. And you're like, so I wasted how many years. Do you want to back glute curl movement? Right. And I have zero lower back pain now when I train legs. That's what I'm up with the hamstring. You know, it's freaking crazy. So it is awesome because there's one of those things where I think we all kind of steel gems here and there. And I tried to John actually train a lot of my training years ago. And I'll still to this day. I'll put something up like I've posted the rear delts wing so many times that that's now my movement. I'm like actually. Right. That was taught to me like a decade ago, but whatever. Because people will tag me and they're like, oh, and dusty movement. I've never invented a single movement in the gym in my life. Right. Right. How often would John actually train you in the gym? I mean, we see photos in the odd video. Yeah. So my husband and I we flew out four weeks before the Olympics, just to get a, like a good training session in and some content. And then we also went to the elite FDS headquarters. Yeah. Pretty awesome. Yeah. Did the new one? Yeah. Yep. So they actually, they're now sponsoring me as an athlete. So that's pretty awesome. They put an amazing equipment. So we probably have a 40 grand worth of their stuff down here. So now if we can get a bit of a discount, that would be pretty. So yeah. Okay. So how did you, how did you think about your training? After your sessions with John as opposed to before you ever trained with him. You know, you were following his program, but hadn't trained with him yet. You remember that point when that happened? Yeah. So I, the first time I trained with John was back in March. I actually had someone else doing my nutrition. He was just specifically doing my training program. And at the time, I just felt like John can really, he's very calm. He's very, like, calculated, but he can really pull stuff out of you. Like, in moments where you think you're at your complete failure, he's like, no, five more. Like, you can see a video where I'm like making these noises. That, like, I didn't even know I can make because I was like, dying. But he was like, come on, keep going. Keep going. And yeah, it was just, he really, yeah, he's able to pull something out of you. He's super motivating. He's really awesome to be around. Yeah. He's a very, fun guy to train with too. I've been fortunate to train with a couple of times. So we're both older and a little banged up. So we agree on exercises very easily. Oh, yeah. Oh, it's good. It was good. We look at each other. How are your hips? They're okay. Okay. Can you do this? I can do that. Let's go. And then you just try to wreck yourself on it. You know, you pick the worst possible format for the set and just make it brutal. Right. Make it painful on what you can do. We got it. We got to make sure we grab some of these questions. Well, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You can fire off a few. I put up a thing last night and I got just got hammered with questions for you, Missy. Okay. Here's a good one. How do you balance your life and your fitness career? Um, so everything is like about balance. Being able to, you know, put things into perspective where you're going to like put your time into. Um, so I think as I've gotten more deep in the fitness division and wanting to really climb the ranks, um, I was actually working at a hospital as a full bottomist. So drawing people's blood. Um, that was like two years ago. My husband was like, you know what? If you want to be like the next fitness Olympia, you need to just quit and focus on that. So balance that way. I had to give up that job there to just focus on this. Right. What about just like day to day? I mean, because that's something we get a lot of with people. I mean, obviously you're pretty fortunate that Matt's all about it. But I mean, you know, when you're in prep, there's probably not, I mean, what does a day look like for you? Because I know what a day looks like as a body but you got to add routine and everything else on it. I mean, your gym from the time you wake up to you got a bed. And what's it look like? So my sleep is really bad during prep. I'm probably up at like, I probably get up around 4 a.m. And then I'll do my foster cardio. And then I like to take the dogs for a walk. We do about a two mile walk in the morning. And then I start my day with like eating. Um, so I'll do like my meal one meal two, and then I'll train. And then eat again, fitness routine. And then I'm eating pretty much all day until bed. Um, so really, I mean, when I am in like hardcore prep mode, um, it's like just fitness. I'm just so submerged in it. It's kind of like obsessive, but I think you have to be that way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. For so much, how much cardio, how much cardio how much cardio, how much cardio, I mean, I first of all, I'm laughing at how you said I get up and do my morning cardio. And then I take the dog for a two mile walk. So it's like, it makes me feel like you don't count the two mile walk, which has horrifies me. So. And then later, I do fitness routine, which also might be cardio vascular. Just a little bit. Yeah. So yeah. Yeah. So give us an idea. How much cardio is your your actual cardio? Sure. So John, well, you guys know, he's he keeps the cardio really low because we don't want to fatigue the legs. So, um, but four weeks out, I was probably doing around 45 minutes of stairs. And then just the two mile walk with the dogs. But as you know, in Seattle, we have like a lot of hills. And yeah. The elevation is pretty crazy on some of those hills. So it's uh, it's definitely a burn. The walk with the dogs would absolutely be my cardio as the point run. That's that's like exactly what I was thinking. And what about the whole, what about the food situation now? What type of metabolism are you the type of person that's eating 300 grams of carbs a week out or are you like suffering down to nothing and what's going on? So this was honestly like I went to the dark side here. Like I was John had me on like the egg white diet ketchup and egg white. Oh, a sugar-free ketchup and egg whites. Yeah. That's the that's my ultimate way to get my glutes ripped. Yeah. Totally. I've never had straighted glutes before and I did this time around and it was freaking it was awesome. Um, but my so December 15th, I wrote it down. My carbs were at 200 grams on training days, non-training days. I was at 40 grams of carbs. So there were some days where like I didn't want to get up off the couch, but you know, you've got it. Yeah. There's house worth that needs to be done. You've got to cook food. Got to make sure my husband's got all those meals ready. So it's, you've got to try it. You've got to try to keep the charade of being a normal person somewhat in place for those last four weeks. This is minimum required amount of functionality to fulfill everyone else's needs. Right. The one good thing that was my husband, he actually like diets hard to. So like he understands what it's like to be like deathly depleted and like just not want to do anything. Yeah. So he gets it and he was like, no, I'm just like chill watching that like stay on the couch, whatever. Right. Right. No, but I have laundry to do and he's like, no, you have to sit down and you don't like. Is he the type of guy that cuts his carbs a little with you? Or is he like, now you're on your own? No, no, he like literally does his own thing. I'm a bad influence right now. Like hey, baby, you want to go get like five guys? He's like, no. Oh, can I make a box cake? He's like, no. Give me a box. Hey, just send it to me. That's fine. You got to, you got to yes from Arizona. We're good to go here. Here's a question. How long would it take you to teach dusty and eye your Olympia routine? Well, I should die day one. So I think we should be good to go. You could all the required surgeries as I hurt myself along the way. You got well, first we got to make sure you guys can jump off of the six foot cage and do a front touch. So yeah, you kind of came, you kind of came out of the starting gates with a big move there. How was that? What was the pressure on? I know you've done that move a million times by that point, but what do you think in? Yeah, so I actually worked my way up. I was starting on like a two foot play a box. So from like really low on the ground all the way up to six feet, like it was a long process, but how long? How long? I started a March, the end of March with the with the front touch. All of our gyms and Seattle got shut down. So I literally bought mats from a gymnastics club that went out of business and I was practicing in my driveway. So the neighbors think you're nuts. Crazy fitness. Check live in next to us. So yeah, I see your listeners go to my YouTube channel, Missy Truscott. You'll see I uploaded a video where it's just kind of like unseen footage of my Olympia prep. I see kind of like practicing on like a little box and then up on the big cage. So it was cool. I don't like you calling a two foot box, little number one, as a giant leap for some of us. I was even at myself and hold a bar of some sort to step down to feet for sure. So you know, you know, I actually get to say I literally, I was at a, I was at a place, getting some food delivered in large amounts and they had a, where the trucks back up and they guys like, oh, hop down here and I'm like, hop down. I don't hop shit. I like sit down on my butt and like scoot off the edge slow motion. Don't break anything. Don't break anything. Okay. We're safe. Yeah, it's, it's a lot. I started, I started to thought that leap off the box. That's like once you got that opening move out of the way, do you just feel like you're off at that point? Yeah, that move was the one I wanted to make sure that nothing bad was going to happen. Like, you know, anything can happen. Your knee could go, your killies, like anything, like just the thought of it. So it would kind of keep me up at night, but the stage was actually like kind of a plywood-ish. My, my fear was going through the stage, but you know, with the momentum going forward, you just kind of roll out of it. But yeah, I love it, Ron. Just roll out of it. Just tuck in roll. You know, you know, Ron tore a quad, just trying to roll out of it one time. Just say, yeah, I did. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, sorry. Yeah, we will get into that. But what about, um, like, do you use massage? Are you getting, you know, cupping done or you're getting grass and done? Like, what sort of techniques would you say you, you like on the regular? So, um, I go to this herbal foot massage place in, uh, Kirkland. There's this guy named Andy. He's probably in his 80s, but he is so strong. Like, I would see him about four weeks out of his going twice a week. He would just do like, uh, like, your feet. And then he would do like a full body, like elbows, all that kind of stuff, like stretching. He was great. So I was doing that about twice a week. And then I have a chiropractor that I see. I was seeing him once a week just to get re-adjusted and, um, hips kind of like pulled out and everything. Right. Um, and then my doctor's obviously for like, uh, the shots and stuff. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You had cortisol in your elbows, you said. Both elbows and shoulder, like three times because it actually was my bicep tendon, but they, they, the first doctor I saw thought it was my rear delt. Um, so he hit me like twice back there and then I went to another guy and he was like, oh, no, what you buy a september and I'm like, so, the end of going in there. What, what, what would you do if just for some reason you couldn't do fitness? What would you do figure? Would you do what would you, yeah, like, you know, what would happen? Figure, I actually competed in figure 2018. I did up on shows. Um, I didn't really well actually place second at the Kentucky muscle. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Order states. I did, um, place second at the upper Midwest. So yeah. So when you said yes, you wanted to do some extra shows or you needed a break or bought his beat up or why did you play with that idea back then? Um, I back then I played with that idea because I, I felt like I wasn't really getting rewarded in fitness. I was getting a little discouraged, like I've been doing this for eight years, like, why am I not giving? Why am I not, like, moving up here? Like, so I thought, let me try a figure and see where I end up. Um, but yeah, and you did, um, I want to say God, I wish I could remember what was called, uh, was your breakthrough? What was the kind of the breakthrough show where you were kind of back in the mix with fitness? I mean, didn't you do, I went to a show in California. I can't think of where the hell I was, but I thought you either wanted to look second place at in fitness. These in. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. That was 2018. So that was like the stint where I was kind of like going between fitness and figure back and forth. Okay. Yeah. So does that, what kind of put you back and track of like maybe maybe they are seeing me now or what? Yeah. Um, it was like that kind of time. My husband and I would do like to travel. So at the same time, we were like, yeah, let's go to these different places and you can compete and we can do whatever. So it was just kind of just like a different like experience. But, you know, after I placed second at the Olympia in 2019, I was like, okay, I need to stick with fitness and just keep riding this out. Right. Now, your, the, the big question I have for the fans is, uh, are you going to be a just Olympia girl now or are you going to win the Arnold again this year? Oh, I'm definitely doing the Arnold. Every, I didn't, I didn't say doing you missed the wording. We missed the wording up there. I stood winning. Are you winning? No, no, no change my words. Yeah, I, I, I am going to bring my best try to win the Arnold. Um, nice. And I definitely, I want to do the Toronto Pro show as well because that's like my hometown and um, I did it back in like, 2016, I think, I placed like 8th. So I need, I need to like, redeem myself there. Right. I, I like that. No, that's one thing I wish, you know, in the late 90s, early 2000s, bodybuilders competed. Like, constantly. I think that's one thing I love about fitness and I'm not into bikini myself is, is watching but I do love that the girls that win the Olympia will do any show. Yeah. Yeah. I remember, you know, remember the Grand Prix Day's Dusty. Yeah, the, the, the, you know, in the magazine of like, they did like 13 shows in a month after the Olympia, you know, I'm just crazy stuff like that. Yeah. So, what, what did you miss the most? Um, so first of all, where are you located? Yeah, I don't Washington. Oh, it's Seattle, right. Yeah. So how was your, I mean, I'm looking back on the year now with like shut downs and gym closures and all that stuff. What was, what was your biggest challenge of 2020? Um, the biggest challenge for me would probably like in, like, in fitness, you mean, just in life generally. Yeah. Yeah. I think it would be like just not being able to see like my in laws. Um, okay. That's, you know, as difficult we go there every Christmas, um, they're down in California and we had plans after the Olympia to go and see them. Um, but for whatever reason, Sacramento shut down like their hotels for like non responders or unless you were a non-respir, first, yeah. Yeah. First responder. I'm sorry. Yeah. Unless you were a first responder, you couldn't stay in a hotel so, you know, it's just kind of sad because, you know, we love them. We want to see them. That's kind of like our routine seeing them by very Christmas. But, um, yeah, I guess just not seeing family. That, that, that, that was, I think a lot of people's challenges this year. Yeah. You know what I mean? What, um, what do you think you learned? What was your biggest lesson from that whole year? From, you know, starting your prep going through all the COVID non-sense all the way to win in the Olympia? What was the number one thing that you take away from that whole year? Um, I think it's going back to like the whole bodybuilding routes. Like, I have a really good home gym here, but it's, like, if you want to put on size, like that quality muscle, you got to go back to like the compound movements, like squatting and dead lifting and, you know, doing other types of, like reverse-banded squats, like just hitting the muscles in different ways. I think that really helped my physique, honestly, having to train here by myself, tapping into that, like, how bad do you want? I missy kind of mentality. Right. With no one, no, like external, like, motivation from the gym just just me down here, grinds it out. So you and you and Sean Clarita have a lot in common. Because he, he was, you know, he was stuck in a barbell dumbbell only basement dungeon, right? Oh, yeah, yeah. And, and yet you both made huge improvements and won titles. And, so like Dusty and I, we like to live in this fantasy world where our show uncovers the truth of hard training and the importance of high intensity basics and all that sort of stuff. So whenever I see a theme like that, I have to make sure we pointed out, you know, it, it, 2020 brought a lot of, like, how bad do you want it out of people? Great time. Yeah, for sure. What thing too, what we, well, we draw, like, I find it interesting that talking to Sean, talking to you ourselves, it doesn't matter what level you're at. You, you kind of drift away sometime to start playing with more machines or different things. And then when you're forced, I know for me, I used to travel around I have a free membership of pretty much every gym in town. So I've like, oh, two days I like going here because they have this and when COVID hit, it put me in one small gym that's literally a third of the size of all the ones I played in. And now that essentially here, everything's open again in COVID's here, but I'm allowed to do what I do. I stay in the small gym now. Like, I have no interest in playing on all the other stuff because the best improvements happen when you're forced back like you said. And it's like, we have a bar and a shit ton of weight. So do what you want to do. I mean, if you don't have any injuries and you can work like and bust your ass, like you're going to make improvements, then it's going to be good. And you know, it feels a lot better to like squat heavy or like, rackle or deadlift than doing like some machine, like chess row or something, you know, like, but the work in like you feel that like reward. So yeah, I agree 100 is fun to to get back to basics. How do you feel about, I mean, you must be getting a lot of messages now from from younger female competitors or girls that want to get into it or girls that idolize you, how do you feel that being a limpia champ has sort of altered your duty or responsibility to, you know, be that person for them. And how does that feel? Yeah, it's Instagram is definitely overwhelming, but it's overwhelming in like a good way. I try to get back to everyone as for like the young females, especially with the fitness division. Not a lot of people know this, but at the amateur level, there's no physique round. It's just routine. So as long as you're in like decent shape, you can do your two minute routine and compete and you know, you get scored and it is what it is. But when you get to the pro level, obviously, you have to do the physique round. So then you have to put some time in training and everything. So I just want to encourage like younger girls, you know, reach out to me if you want. And yeah, we gotta keep getting more eyes on the fitness division. Because I think it is really entertaining. And I know a lot of people enjoy it. Yeah, I have to huge. I think everybody like, I know from my early days, I only watched bodybuilding and fitness routines. Because it's fun. You know what I mean? It's like, well, you know, I mean, all kidding aside, when you watch a fitness routine, you know that it's, you can't do that. You know, I think we like things that are a little out of touch and then at the highest level, it's insane. So, you know, do you coach people with that? Do you do like online or do anything or? Yeah, online in person, choreography. Yeah, if any girls have any questions, just shoot me a message. Because I, I'd love to, you know, help them out. That's awesome. Any, any more questions for Missy Dusty? Well, I have a million, but here's the big one. Everyone, I have three of these. What is your favorite food that you get to eat as soon as the show is over? Sure, cheap food. I love carrot cake. Oh, good choice. Carrot cake is the best. You had one cheap meal a week, the whole diet, though, didn't you? That's what I heard. Is that, is that true? No. Up until like November. Oh, okay. Okay. Maybe October. About October. Some reason I heard you were having one piece of carrot cake a week. That's what I heard. Oh, that's nice. That's nice. She wishes. So you get in that shaping carrot cake every week. Okay. Good. Good. Good. Now, I just tested. Yeah, just tested. Yeah. Lock it in. So the final thing that I did, one of my clients asked, I want to make sure I get in there is how was your mindset different leading into this year versus any other year that you think separated you to be able to win? I kind of touched on it a little bit. But it was the whole 2018 or sorry, 2019, second place in Olympia. I just kind of thought in my heart like, yeah, maybe I'm not ready. But this year, I put the work in. I knew that I was going to bring a killer physique. I had that confidence on stage that like, I want this. It's my time. I'm ready. I just knew the sacrifice and training. I mean, sitting down, sitting down on a chair, it would hurt my butt. Like, I knew I was lean. I knew I was ready. I wanted it. So I was just, I was freaking ready. I was ready to go. Right. Now, I liked that. The reason I asked that question is, I think a lot of people believed you were able to win the Olympia before you did. Meaning there's a difference between people who I know this happened with Sean Schon, Roden, is a seat of told him for years he could win. And he kept telling him, you can win. You can win. Roden was kind of riding his acidos belief he could do it. And about four or three or four weeks out from the Olympia that he did win, I asked Chris. I said, what's going to happen? And he goes, so he's winning. I said, oh, well, you always said, he knows he's winning now. And he said that that was a big click was before he was kind of riding Chris's belief. But once he watched that flip, that switch flipped. That Sean Newt, Sean could win. Yeah. It was kind of game over. You know, it just puts you in another stratosphere. And I think that that's something I like to drive home with people is if you don't believe it, it really can't happen. Right. And when you do, I mean, granted, I would love to believe that I could win the Olympia, but that's a little crazy. So it doesn't quite work with lies. But if you actually believe it, it's pretty impressive what you can get done. It's like the fake intensity. You can't fake a champion mindset. You actually have to truly believe it. And not just believe it, but like work towards it too. Like it has to be almost like an obsession. Like everything revolves around it. And another reason why I have to like thank my husband so much for being so supportive with everything, like whether it's diet training, just my whole life revolves around fitness. And like he's a financial advisor. He has his career. But he also revolves his life around me. And we just make like a really good team. Right. Not huge. That's, it's enormous. I mean, it's, it's a regular question. It's terrible. And I think a lot of people disagree with my answer here. But I'll have people reach out and say, oh, my, my girlfriend's not really supportive of this. And I'll say, do you really want to do this? And they're like, yeah, it's like more than anything. I'm like, think it rid of her. Yeah. And it's like a frozen. And they literally, I mean, even when people say they freeze, it's like, I'm being serious. Because you need to choose. And if it's her, then choose and walk away. And that's great. But you know, you can't imagine if he was bitching every time he went to the gym or he wanted to eat donuts. And it's not going to work. Yeah. That's one good thing. When I, when I met my husband, he had already like established himself like in the gym. Like he works out he has his own schedule eating. Like even now, we don't even eat at the same time. But that's like our life, you know, like we don't eat here. And eight, ten into, you know, we have like our little schedule. And if we can make it work where we sit down at the table together and eat our separate meals, then we do it. But that's called date night. Usually doesn't work like that. But it, that's all, it's all good. You know, my girlfriend and I will actually make a joke. If we both actually sit down at the table with a meal together, we'll like make a joke. We go, hey, are you? I'll talk. I got, I got one. Hopefully, hopefully this is a fun question for you. You get a new program from John. And you look at it. And you see the worst leg day ever. What is it? He's got this like drop set of death lunges. That it's like like a five drop set of like dumbbells. And it's just like a eight eight eight and you're just dropping it and dropping it and are you talking about the Bulgarians or is your lunch, Bulgarians? Yeah. That's what I say. I write that one too. I know that one. Oh, I got to see that. Oh my god. I see that. Oh my god. If it's anywhere in there, you're like, oh, yeah. That's kind of like tapping and it's like, okay. It's aksana bitchen about this. Is Whitney bitchen about this? No, like let's do it. And then now I would get like a little crazy. But there'll be sometimes I'd be like downstairs here like training. And that's what I think like is aksana stopping like her death Bulgarian drops at no, she's still doing it. So I need to still do it. And yeah, I just that's how I kind of motivate myself being down here. They are one of the most deceivingly horrible experiences. I remember when John started posting that style of Bulgarian where he'd like hold on to something to stabilize. And everyone started doing it. And everyone's like, oh, I'm getting, you know, because it was like, oh, we can hold on to something. Oh, it's fuck this. Give this a try, right? And I remember all the body builders doing them. And then most people quickly abandon them. Yeah. And only certain people kept doing them. When you hold on to something, you're able to like really lean back and get that breath. Yeah. Blue. And it's like, it's freaking death. Like yourself has failure and everything. Yeah. That's when you know your messed up. You start adding ways to it. I remember John sent to me and then I like five or six weeks in, I go, hey, I found if I if I also did a four count negative before pausing on a two count of the bottom, he's like, that's disgusting. I love it. Yeah. Oh, you didn't let me down on that one. That was a solid answer. We all agree immediately on that one. Yeah. So I mean, thank you very much for wanting to come on the show and given us an hour of your time. You know, we, we feel very fortunate to be able to get the quality of gas like the Olympia champions and it's it's pretty awesome. You know, they, they, they went dusty and I started the show. We thought maybe 10 people would listen. So another work for 11, it's awesome. You guys put out great content. I mean, like I said, it kept me like super motivated when I had to do my outside walks in the rain. You know, I'd be listening to you guys last in, last night, dusty, like craft dinner stuff that's pure by the view. Have you fully bought into the square plate theory? I do use square plates and I wanted to show you this because I fell out of the sea one. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Oh, what is this? Shaker. A craft dinner shaker. It's like the cheese. So in one table spoon, there's four grams of carbs. So if you didn't want to actually like get the craft dinner like noodles, you can get the shaker. This is $29 on Amazon. It's a little expensive. Worth every penny. That's cheap for heroin. Really, if you think about it. I love it. I'm going to buy that now because that'll suddenly be like added over top of rice when I'm dying. It's a little. Yeah, no. It's freaking great. Dusty's going to be like literally like putting his chicken breast in it. But then like you ever done this. Yeah, yeah, yeah. All this food's going to be yellow now. Fair. That's the one that Limpi was square plates. And now you know that tells us how high brow our show is Dusty are guests bring on craft dinner powder to show you. Let me up one up. You're just a hair rookie. Yeah, that's done. That's pretty awesome. That's fantastic. Yeah, we appreciate that Missy. And like I said, I'm a big fan. I had to message her when you told me she was going to be on the show. I did message her and say, I'm a big fan. Thank you. You know, that's everything. And then I, of course, I like edited it a bunch of times because it sounded so pathetic. Retorted down. Well, one of the friends that only were still. I got to turn it down. I can't send that re-read. Oh, it's crazy fan. Okay. So thank you very much. Show us the the sandout before before we go. You got it behind you there. There we go. It's heavy. Oh, I'm kidding. So what if does that trophy have a name? I know we call the sandout the sandout. I'm just wondering if that's called we could we call that it needs a name. I know it needs a name. I don't think it's the sandout, but I mean, you should name her and then you should like carve the name in the bottom. That's a good. No, it's a good. I'll let you guys know what I name her. The missy. Oh, okay. Thank you very much for being on it's just body building. Thank you guys. Yeah, we appreciate you. See you, missy. Yeah. Hey, what's going on guys? Thanks for watching another podcast here. I think big body building media. And thank you to our great sponsor, True Nutrition.com for making this all possible. True Nutrition.com is owned by Dante Trudeau, the creator of DC training. You wanted to create a supplement company that offered high third party test and supplements at a fair price. High quality protein powders just about every type. You could think of huge variety of flavors plus health and performance supplements. Check them out True Nutrition.com and hey, if you use our code advices, you directly support our podcasting. Thanks guys. Let's get back to the program. Boom. And now we have had two of this year's Olympic champions on the show. Yeah, and then Chad's almost like having rammy because rammy'd probably be a little hard for us to talk to him. Yeah, well, English is getting a lot better, but you know, we had Chad on. So it's almost three. I'm calling that two and three quarters. Well, that's like having a super bowl winning coach on. He still has a ring. Absolutely. I'd back that. So hey, maybe it's three. Yeah, you know, I'm good with that. We're calling it three. We've had three. And let's then in that case, if you had how many Chad has, then we've had like 20 something. Let's ask us this. This Chad count as having on the Limpia winner on. He's a Limpia winner. It's coach. Yeah, I'm a few running stories too. You're doing an NFL talk show and you have like Bill Parselson. Yeah, oh yeah, you've definitely have a super bowl champion. Yeah, yeah, there you go. Count where heads I go. Well, Ron, I hope you have a little bit of time because I got a lot of it questions. Yeah, I do. Thanks for getting Missy on the show. By the way, I have to give you full credit for breaking the good news to me. Yeah, that was exciting. And ladies, just so you know, we do have we're in the works with a couple more females to bring on the show out. I'm not going to say who yet, but we also have I'm hoping a very, very, very educated expert. To be coming on to talk about the chemical side of things because that's something that I keep running into. Yeah, yeah. In a not good way from from Joe Blow coaches that are not thinking about these females long-term health effects on their body things like that. So we're excited to bring that to light and hopefully help you guys make some at least educated decisions. I don't care what people do. I just want them to know why they're doing it. What did you think about when Missy's like, I'm like, how is the year? And she's like, oh, my elbows are shocked. I show their mask. Actually, she's exactly what you do. You know, but she sure looked like nothing's wrong. Like, never let them see you hurt. And I don't, I mean, truthfully, and you know, this like we're always dealing with something. Yeah. And I have I have seen Missy train and she trains like we do. I mean, literally like, oh, so it's like, yeah, to do that at that body fat level and do the routine. I mean, I don't know. I don't know. I remember like, I guess it would have been right at the beginning of the year at some point. I think Meadows posted a picture. I can't remember. I saw a picture of Meadows with her. And I messaged him. And I was like, she's unbelievable. Right. And he was, she's going to win the Olympia. Oh, no, shit. Yeah. Oh, okay. And then, you know, like then, you know, obviously I followed her at some whatever point it was. And then, you know, she started popping up in my feet and that sort of thing. Yeah. And I would see her in Meadows feed. That's why I followed her. You know, it's funny. But man, she just crushed the physique part of it. And, you know, dominated. I mean, I thought she was such a clear winner. Yeah. No, I did too. And obviously, I don't know anything about the fitness routine round. Yeah. I think it's all of great to me. Yeah. But I do think that you can pick up on the energy, the delivery. And I did feel like back in the day, when Oxana was winning on the regular. I felt like she was kind of head and shoulders above. And Whitney, obviously, is phenomenal as well. But this year, I kind of felt like Missy won all of it. I think I didn't feel like, you know, when you're watching, I knew, I'm like, oh, you're a physique win, she wins for sure. Then I'm watching the routine. I'm like, I think you won that too. No, I've been my first Olympia 2002. Mm-hmm. It's a Kelly Ryan. Right. Do you ever routine? Yeah. And anyone who remembers kind of the history of fitness, Kelly Ryan was, she was like second place at the L of bunch of times because she would never win the physique round. Yeah, but it routine destroy whatever. She would destroy everyone in the routine round. So she would come out and do these routines that were like always, well, I remember them being always first or whatever. But she was like, fucking so high in the air and bouncing and flipping with that, the genastic background, it was just crazy. And so I remember seeing those like years ago and being like, holy shit, this is high impact. Yeah. Yeah. Well, like she said, it's also funny too. Like, so you practice all year and one space or whatever. And then you have to get to the stage and like, look at it and feel it. And it's not going to bounce the same and hit the same as what you've been practicing with. Like, that to me is just a little click where it's like, it's like, if you were, I don't know, a swimmer and you were swimming in 70 degree water. Like, oh, well, today we're doing 50. Right. Like, well, that fucking changes shit. I remember reading, I can't remember now if it was Frank Zane or Ed Corney or someone like that, like, it was something like legendary, you know, bodybuilding posing artist. Right. And they said the kind of the artsy bodybuilding version of that, they were like, don't just practice your routine in what you're posing in one spot and then go on stage and do it. It's going to fuck you up because you're looking out. There's, you know, there's no mirror. There's like, all these people in front of you, there's all these lights. They're like, try practicing your posing and doing your routine in like a whole bunch of wacky settings. Right. Up on the edge of a wall and the top of the stairs and like, put yourself in a bunch of weird, so that you get used to the surroundings, not mattering. Right. And not not thinking about them and posing a closet. Can you pose an closet? Like, can you pose like, I remember reading that and thinking, oh, it's kind of neat, you know? Right. But I could see how it would really apply to something that you're actually physically jumping and bouncing like the surfaces you'd want to be able to do that routine on a cement surface. You'd want to be able to do it on a wood floor. You'd want to be able to do it in a whole bunch of different, on a whole bunch of different surfaces, theoretically. Yeah. You know, surprises, right? That would be the ultimate way to prepare. Right. Exactly. It is not so. I mean, really think about that because until she said, well, that was worried about the stage. Is it going to hold them like, yeah, where would never cross my mind? I've never walked out of the station, man. I hope I don't fall through. I do that with chairs all the time, but that's different. I mean, I give them a good test and voice it down. Yeah. No, it's it's, I'm, I'm really happy for her. You know, that's Canadians doing really well right now. You guys are making your move like not so quietly. No, no, not so quietly. It's good stuff. I like it. So that technically means two Canadians won the Olympia. Yeah. There you go. So going to the next level here. But I'm not sure. Maybe she has dual citizenship now. She's pulling a bread haul. Oh, I bet she has to use it because that's what may be. She's happy. See now. Now I wish I were to ask her which passport she's traveling on. She have an American passport or a Canadian passport. Now I need to know we're going to find this out now. Now she's going to actually get a creepy message from me. Hey, uh, what passport are you using? I think the first one wasn't enough. Don't get blocked this time. Why does Rob Bartlow want to know what passport I'm using? It's very important. And why is he looking through my window in the backyard? This is really creepy. I mean, you do know she's like two hours from you now. So it's a really now. Well, you should have seen whether does he the eternal rain the apocalyptic rain, you know, endless sort of, I don't know, it's crazy. I'm looking out my window. It's just not so I haven't seen the sun in like two months, bro. I know it rained one time the other day here. It fucking was a mess. Yeah, you know, you love this. I'm dead serious. So I've had the truck for, I made three or four payments on it. And I'm driving to the gym the other day and it hits me. This is the first time my truck's been raining on. Look at it. I was like, well, it sucks. I don't really like rainwater hitting it. I don't watch my Jeep for like five months. Why would you? It's just fucking gets it's and not just raining, but like fucking pouring rain like all day, you know, like it's crazy. It's a free wash. See, my cheap ass goes, ah, truck got washed for free today. And if you were to wash your if you were to wash your vehicle here right now, it would just be to like get grime off. Yeah, because you're striving straight out into the rain. Like so it just be like, you know, I guess I would do a seasonal detail like so that they really get the wax on heavy. So I know my heart's safe to get rain not all time. Yeah, and that was just called a loss. Like, I cool. Now the vehicle is good. It's going to look great in April when we get those three days of beauty. Yeah. We just hit hit let's let's do some questions. That's how we're going to start with, uh, we're going to start serious here, okay? Super hot chick, but has a smelly vagina. Is that a deal breaker? This is bodybuilding questions I guess. Go ahead. Yeah, I don't know. Yeah, I, what do you get to do? I don't know. Yeah. Yeah, it's a hard, it's a complete question. I mean, I mean, that's no different than saying it's just dirty like hair. It doesn't wash your hands. I mean, yes, it's a problem. Yeah. I might, I might take a something to do before I left, but I wouldn't come back. Well, that's why you could do that thing that you always wanted to try because I'm not going back anyways. I can't really go open with that, right? We start with that. We go if it was really at the top. We got like it was even by choice. So yeah, like a limpia champion. And then we're like, okay, listen to their questions. Big drop, big drop. We fell straight to the shallow into the pool. These are bad. Oh my gosh. Dude, I got a lot of these ones today. Okay. We're, oh, Ron, I'm sorry. I got to do this to you. Advice for getting ladies for the young guys out there. This is your department. Oh, God. Or it was. Sorry. I'm effective at vicer effective advice because it's effective. It's got to be effective. I don't want to leave this person. I'm not going to say his name. No, what? I'll say this. Funny guys get laid. You make girls laugh. How do you think some of these dudes pull it off? They're not. A lot of guys aren't got good. A lot of guys are rough looking. Right. There you go. That's raised my hand. That's weird. Yeah. Get a bit of make make a girl laugh. Don't don't be too serious. I actually saw a meme about that. And it was so fun. I literally laughed my ass off because it said, be careful with the funny guys. You're laughing your laugh and your naked. That was, that was, I used to love this bit. There's this guy named Christopher Hitchens. He was like an intellectual and a writer and he was pretty interesting guy. I read some of his books and I'm pretty interested in him. And he's dead now. But he did a funny comedic piece. He sort of had this like friendly debate going with like Sarah Silverman and a few other female comedians. And they had done some article about being funny or, you know, comedy's funniest women. And Christopher Hitchens kind of did this tongue and cheek rebuttal. You know, he was like half joking, but it was pretty funny and he's like, women aren't funny. And it's not your fault. It's, it's that you don't have to be funny. We're going to sleep with you anyways. He's like, but humor is evolutionarily built into men. We have to be funny or we don't get fucked. And he's like, he's like, not many guys are good looking. Not many guys have all the qualities that women dream of, but some of these guys get laid. And he's like, because they're funny. Men have to be funny to be competitive with other guys. Women don't have to be funny. So his joke was that evolution is on the man's side, matter funny or than women because of evolution. It's not just anyone's fault. They have to be to survive. Only when we're going to spread our DNA is if we make some girls laugh, that's really the fucking bottom line. So it was just really fun. It was actually his there. You know, it's kind of stuck with me, you know, and maybe it's a funny bit. It's on YouTube if you want to look it up. But I could just see them watching that for the first time and dying over because he put thought into it. Oh yeah. Like, no, this I'm not, it's not your fault. You didn't need to evolve. You don't need to be fine. It's not your smile. Yeah. How you're good. You were very good. Oh my gosh. Let's see here. Oh, okay. So I had put up a post today about systems. And you and I have actually talked about this with the gym as well. The importance of systems and business and to become successful. What I mean, so for example, at your gym, I'm sure that you have a very specific way that if someone comes in and they want to do a tour of the gym, how it's done. You know, basically beginning to end to close. So here's a question. How do you create systems for success in your personal life? Like, do you have things that you do every day a certain way? And I know the answers. Yes. So kind of drop some of yours that you think whether it's in the bodybuilding days or now that led you to your success. Yeah. So the things that come to mind was I remember reading, I can't remember what it was. I remember reading something at one point where the the focus was if you can learn to multitask certain things you become obviously more efficient. And I'm really big on efficient. And when I hear people talk about being efficient, it sort of triggers my old like when I started training and reading about Dorian being efficient. And you know, certain exercises being more efficient. You know, and I hate I was hated wasting time running stuff over over with, you know. So anytime there is something that was sort of geared to being more efficient, that means that you have more leisure time to lay around and do nothing. So which means grow. Yeah, grow. Well, at the time, right? That's how the bodybuilders think. And like why I need to sleep eight hours. So I can't do this whole sleep for hours thing. Right. So I'm not how I work. So you have to be more efficient. So, you know, like I still do it now. Like I'll come home. And I'll see that the dishwasher is full and there's some laundry full and I got to cook food. And this is a little thing like that. It's a scenario that everyone runs into. Put the food on. Then do the other two things while the food's cooking. I know it's something that you're like, but there's people out there that won't do that. They'll do one thing and then another thing. And then they'll cook their meal. And then they'll be mad at themselves because they haven't, you know, because of the fuck I can't believe I had so much stuff to do. Right. And it's just like a little thing like that. So and I know that that's like a super basic like who wouldn't think of that. But sometimes we forget because we get caught up in our day and we're like, fuck, I didn't start this. I could have been doing these two things at the same time or I could have done that on the way here. Why did I do a separate trip for this? So I try to think of my day so that I don't have to do separate trips for stuff. I can, you know, okay, when am I going to go to the gym while if I have anything to do, I'll do it on my way to the gym. Yep. Or on my way back from the gym. But I have to, I can't do a separate trip and I don't want to do this. And so that's how I sort of think. And I know it might sound like remedial. But it filters into everything else. Now I totally think it does. And it also those, I mean, those are like examples. But I could literally plug someone in to exactly how I would live their life to be efficient. Because you, you have your schedule. For example, so I always joke that if you want to kill me next week, just follow me this week. Yeah, you will know exactly where I'm going to be when I'm going to be there because I don't randomly buzz over the store. Right. I go at certain days, certain times. Like literally, as you know, like unless I absolutely have to, I don't train today because today is it's just bothering. It's this. It's, you know what I mean? It's a planned day. But that optimizes the rest of them. So cooking happens today. Shopping happens today to make sure that the next three training days, now it's just pop the top and eat, you know. And the big push that I had for that is with body building, it comes out of preparation. Like I always tell clients if they're leaving the house, say, your husband wants to, to go shopping and you know you're going to need a meal, bring to, always bring to. Just in case, it's not going to go bad. And you're going to have it just in case because we all know that if, if you're not me and actually have other people that want things, things that slow down, you know what I mean? It's not an exact science. And if not, you bring it home, it's already ready. It's possible. My equipment you're ready to go. You know, that kind of preparation is game-changing. I always say if you don't have your food, you're now at the mercy of what's around. And another thing is, you know, like I make a point to, you know, the last Monday of every month, I have it in my phone, the last Monday of every month, has a marker on it where I sit down and I type out any invoicing I have to do. Anybody, any double check, any payments on my square, check this, check that, make sure I do this, check this one email account where any bills that might come to the gym come in. You know what I mean? If there's any bills that need paying, that'll be in this one email folder because that's how we direct everything. And just, and it's like the last Monday of every month. And then I'm not checking all the time and paying bills randomly on, oh, I got a bill to help pay that today. And then like, you know what I mean? It sort of exists to my stuff like that. So, you know, that's something. We have to remember, too, I've been thinking about this a lot. There's all these studies now and experts saying that the amount of time we spend on our phones directly correlates with the amount of anxiety we have. Right. With a lot of people. Like that's why we're seeing all these crazy anxiety levels and especially young girls because they're on social media so much and all that stuff. But, you know, you think about that and you're like, huh, a screen time directly correlates to anxiety levels. Right. And maybe I should minimize my screen time. I know I work on my phone and it's emails and messages. But, you know, what about all the other garbage time I spend on my phone? I don't need to be surfing. Well, I'm looking at this person's Instagram for 10 minutes. It's not that interesting. Why did I go down this rabbit hole? Right. Why did I click these 10 YouTube videos? And I only watch 30 seconds of each one. Right. You know, I should have, I could have just watched an episode of a show that I enjoy. Right. And tuned out of the noise of the world. And because what, what causes more anxiety watching an episode of sunset anarchy or scrolling Instagram for 35, 45 minutes. Right. Yeah. You know what I mean? So if you're going to spend time tuning out of the world, don't waste it on nonsense that doesn't spend it doing something like, what do you think's better playing video games? Like James Hollings had does for two hours. And we are actually focused. You're not stressing about outside world or, you know, comparing yourself to other people at Instagram for two hours. Well, in the plus he's checking out. That would be a lot of us is checking out. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Out of bodybuilding a little bit when it's all you do. I found too with coaching when I was first starting back up. My emails would Bing every time an email came in and I would check it. Right. And I would answer. And I started to realize how inefficient that was. And how not, I was never in the moment of anything I was doing because every time I fell into a ring or doing anything, I would react to it. It was like it told me what to do. Now I literally, and you know this, I don't have my ring or on ever. No. Because I don't, I'm not at this thing's mercy at all. And I actually don't allow myself to do client work until it's time to do client work. And I sit down and I knock it out. I don't do here and there all day long. And it's crazy. The amount of time I used to spend doing the same amount of work was double. What if they and the funny thing is, a lot of clients will mistake an instant response for a better response. Right. So that's what I like to I tell people, I'm like it might be 12 hours to hear back for me. It might be 24. But I mean, I'll get back to you for sure. But I guarantee I will have thought about what they said. Right. I will have read it. Made, you know, what do I need to say here? Maybe I only need to say something like, oh, this is awesome news. Continue. But at least I'll do it after having sat down, read the message, understood what's going on. And then I'll respond. And I think that when you get into habit of like instant responding to every message, you don't like you said, get into the moment with them. And actually think about what they're doing when you respond. You're just like snapping off these answers. And they might be right answers. But they're not over time. I don't think there's good equality. Right. No, I agree. Because I think you also what you're essentially doing is you're actually doing something else while answering my thing. And I fell into that because what happened was I used to open emails. And then it was a fucking seven paragraph thing. And I'm like, oh, shit, I don't know time for this right now. Right. I thought they were just telling me the other body weight. Yeah, like something simple. So I had to learn like, don't even open that. Because in a couple of occasions way earlier in my career, I opened it. And then I was still doing something else. And I wouldn't click on red, admit it. Right. Then the next day at three o'clock, I'm like, oh, shit. John sent me that fucking long email I never read. You know, whereas now I saw my clients I guarantee you I was smaller than 24 hours. Yeah. Yeah. And it also takes away their need of sending. Because I know I used to do that. I'd send it. I look at my phone. He has an answer to it. It has an answer to that. Right. Now they send it. They can forget about it. They'll be an answer. You know, obviously it does get bumped up when they're in prep. Like if I open 30 client things, I do go straight to the guys who are competing first. Yeah. Someone's two days out of obvious. Yeah. They get it quicker. Or I will switch somebody with a very, very end. I'm like, okay, we're doing text now. Because I am going to drop everything. Because you're sending me seven check-ins today. We don't have time for you to wait. You know what I mean? But yeah, so that's, I think that's stuff's key. I think a lot of people don't have systems. I know when I started doing business coaching, that's what I used to do. I'd come in and be like, okay, let me see your business. And then I would just see shit. I'm like, oh, this is a mess. You know, you want to create. I used to say, if I died at House of Fitness, uh, every on or one of my employees could literally just pick up my notebook and know exactly what to do. Like I didn't die. It would just keep moving. Because everything was the same. And it was all written out. Like I had a dummy guide for how to do everything I did. So all you had to do was grab the notebook, start at one. You can finish the week. Right, right, right, right. You know, so very key. My life could die any moment. True, true. Good stuff, man. You got time for a couple more? Oh yeah, yeah, hammer away. Okay. Mine were all for Missy. Because I didn't, I just put up one for her. Let's see here. It's a, oh, it's important. What kind of mattress do you have? Oh, I've got to, I can't remember the brand, but I've got a good one. A big king size bed. I remember I went to buy a king size bed. And I walked in and I was like, how much do I want to spend? And I can't remember the numbers. I think I was going to spend like $2,500 bucks on that. Right. I was like, yeah, I'll spend about that. I don't know. I remember the bed corner sewer. And they had a bed that was almost five grand and it was 50% off. I was like, and the guy, the guy looks at me and he's like, he's like, what's your price range? And I told him and he's like, well, kind of a good day to come in. Because this one's like, it's like, here's your bed. It's 50% off bed. We just got the new version of this bed. So we're just selling last year's bed, but it's a brand new king size, fucking beautiful, super like blah, blah, blah, you know, as a good bed. So I'm sure you, I'm sure there's $10,000 beds out there, but I think I got a pretty good one. Yeah, I think the key more than anything is actually knowing what kind of mattress you like, whether it's firm, whatever. So I definitely recommend people figure that out before they shop. I don't know what I don't know what I have, but I love it. Right. It's got one of those foam tops, but it's also, I think, pretty firm. Right. Yeah, that's, I mean, I find most people, this guy's 63290, I can pretty much tell you he needs a firm mattress. Yeah. Um, because that's the deal. I did the same. It's just, uh, I need to, I literally went in, learn the facts. And I actually have one of those, um, they're like the foam beds, the tough to needle kind of shit. Um, they have three options. And the cheapest one is the firm is the firmest, bought one of those. And I came off of what was like a 5,000 arm mattress before. I just didn't want to spend that kind of money against with that. They had one of those like six month guarantees. You literally just called it, I don't like this mattress. And, uh, I think it costs like a grand. I mean, it was so cheap. And, uh, literally now, I have four of them. Every room has that mattress now. And anytime somebody comes over, first comment, they're like, damn, how much does that mattress? I'm always laughing. That's probably cheaper than what you have. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I have very good news for you, Sarah. It's not as much as you think. Excellent. What is that? Oh, I agree this. This one is a three part, which I got to read up here. Oh, here we go. There's something about a woman who comes into the gym ready to fucking work versus the one who is looking for her best lighting in her next selfie, which one is more attractive? What's the key factor? There was actually three, like I had to read them across. Anyways, yeah. Oh, okay. Oh, they will be multi. They, I get yeah. Yeah. Well, I mean, you know, I was like hardworking people. Like seeing, you know, I was like girls that were like working hard. And they didn't have to look like competitors or anything. It was all about hard work, you know. So they could have sweatpants on and a hoodie. Actually, like hoodies on chicks. So that's fine. Yeah. Yeah. So so yeah, it's not about at all about what they're wearing. It's like, you know, seriousness. I was like, you know, the girls that kind of had their hats low and their headphones in. I was like, okay, she's not actually here to like pick up guys. Right. Yeah. That's a good work. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think the only thing that I've talked to people who are in the industry about is understanding that, um, in our world, you're in. When you go to the gym, like, like, I can't go to the gym and be in dusty land. If I meet people who know me, I can't have the fuck you face on like you've got to right alter into that. So I do remind people that, like, especially women. It's like, you need to be here to train. But I don't think there's anything wrong with also looking good to do that. No, no, no, no. I mean, it's that line of he does, you know, sometimes I go as far as I wear like a red hat and red shoes at same time, which I love when you do that. You know, I've pride myself when you do that. I'm like, look at Ron, but I don't want people to think I'm like dressing for the gym. But I don't just say, now we're going to weigh up top of the window here. You got tagged in some converse posts the other day. And I was like, look at Ron, stand in his own little group of people that understand, yeah, shock. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's cool. I like it. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. As a guy in my gym, that's got a pretty good collection. He's got why you had you had drifted away and brought your back. Yeah. I drifted away. Yeah. You were probably buying shoes that actually costed money and now you're back to Chuck's where you should be. No, no, I, I like the shocks. However, I can't ride in the trucks. I can't wear trucks on my bike. What do you wear in a bike? I wear Jordan's really. Yeah. That's an expensive shoe for a bicycle. And my, my Jordan's are all a little bit beat up. So I'm just going to take him fucking just to wear him right out. Ryan, I'm into the ground. Yeah. Yeah. You know, get some use out of him. I don't want them looking pretty when I'm done with them. But yeah, I need a really firm bottom for the pegs and the frame. Right. That Chuck's my feet actually hurt on the pegs. Yeah. I can see them bending over. I just too soft. But when I wear a Jordan, I feel like I have like a real flat foot on the pegs. My foot doesn't fold over the peg. You know, they don't have like a shoe that most people wear when riding. Most of those guys wear a lot of them were wearing Chuck's and vans and DC and that sort of stuff. I'm doing Seattle. I'm doing Seattle all the time. I was like, wait a minute. I see where this change a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Most of the guys I see are wearing like a very kind of minimal shoe. Right. Because they want it out of the way. They don't want a big shoe getting in the way. Right. You know. So I've got some size 14 Jordan's and some size 13 Jordan's. Right. And the 13's are better on the bike. The 14's are a little like actually a little too big like to get in the way. So I'm going to like kind of keep that in mind if I'm looking for a new pair of shoes to ride in right now. So I'm kind of on the sights kind of seeing what's out there. And I'm looking for like a minimalist like slim fitting sort of but thicker sold style shoe. You hear that viewers listeners? How come you out? Ronnie. So you know, it's funny because you know, I follow like all the skateboarding accounts not because I'm blown away. And now you've got I follow BMX dudes. People got on my Instagram and they're like, what the hell is going on here? This guy is confused. Is they look at me and they're like, he's definitely not sure. Oh, this shit. Okay. 13. You know what's funny that I did find like following foreign stars and skate videos. You're like 15. Yeah, but I only know the point stars. I don't actually know any of the skate. But actually what I was going to say it's funny is, you know bodybuilding when you're not yet a real bodybuilding. I hate to say it like that. But like you wear the bodybuilding clothes. You wear what you're supposed to wear. You wear the the atomic shoe. And then you got to have this and you got to have that. And when you're when I was a skater as a kid, it was very it was a uniform. Oh, yeah. They don't have uniforms anymore. Like the best dudes, just wear whatever the fuck they want. The shoes or whatever the fuck they want. And I'm always like, that's how I like to see because I had somebody asked me at the other day. He goes, man in your videos, you're always wearing these big baggy pants. You look better than you are because I were shorts one time and I go, yeah, I'm not even thinking. You know what I'm wearing? I got something and what is comfortable to train in today. What'll be out of my way? Yeah. So I can do what I, it was just so funny because I realized like, I, yeah, they're gray pants. You know what I mean? And I had something all you finally bought gas, like that half off sale. I'm not buying six-year-old fucking pants. Not half. No, no, no. I glad you follow some of those accounts. So I always, I had like a moment where I was like, yeah, this guy named Terry Adams who's like, he's like the best flatlander in the world right now. Technically, I guess he won the award this year. But he did a video where he talked about how he, you know, he's been riding his whole life. He's been on a bike for like 30 fucking years, right? And um, but he started like working out a lot in the last year. He got like a coach, like a fitness trainer. Right. And he started like working out and he's got, you know, all this. He does like, yeah, like he's he just changed his, you know, he was always kind of like yoga, eat healthy type of guy. But now he's like, you know, working out and doing all these exercises. And he's got this core routine he's doing. And and he said it was all spurred because like, I think he's probably almost 40, you know, if not 40, but he, um, he just like jumped off his bike one day when he kind of came off it. And this landed on his heel and hurt his back. And his therapist was like, if your core was stronger, this wouldn't happen. And he was like, fuck, I'm getting 12. I'm striking your core. Or you got 20 again. Yeah. So so yeah. So he like started working out and stuff. So I just like when, you know, the whole lift weights get strong, you know, that whole, you know, eat healthy, how much protein he eaten get, you know, like, I love when that stuff drips into other people. That's cool. Yeah. And that's the thing is like, and it always reminds me of how ahead of the curve body building has been and how we've been decades ahead of everyone for such a long time. And you know, I mean, we saw it happen in the 80s. I mean, hockey players weren't lifting weights. Yeah. Well, that's what that's what's crazy is when you look back. Don't say I will joke because there was a study maybe three or four months ago about stretching under a load. It was like new information. If you have. We were like new in 1997. The hell of you been. But it is cool because you're right. Like you follow. And these guys all understand they're elite athletes. And that's truthfully what I follow when I'm looking at most things is I like people that are excellent at anything. Yeah. I follow a frisbee golf pro. Like, because I'm like, how how does he get good at that reps golfer reps, basketball reps? Yeah. It's all the same. You know what I mean? And they there are squat or our dead left is their shot or their swing. You know what I mean? So it is cool to watch because it is just a never ending reminder that they're all doing what we're doing. And another another thing that it's a reminder of. And this, you know, we talked to Missy today. I mean, she talked. I mean, she's one of the Olympians. She's telling us, yeah, my shoulder was battle year. My elbows were battle year. It, it, it, it reminds us that, you know, us guys who lift that big heavy weights and train like animals and all that stuff. All the other high level athletes are getting hurt too. We're nothing special. They're living in pain. The whole fucking time just because you're 300 pounds and you're, you know, squat and five plates doesn't mean that you're suffering any sort of pain that other people don't understand, you know, like you got these guys, these high level flat land guys that have had like fucking carpal tunnel surgery and like literally. And they're wrists and elbows and, you know, three shoulder rotator cuff repairs and, you know, arthritis up their spine and one hips fucked and they've been riding their bike for 30 years and you're like, holy shit, like the body wears out no matter what you do, no matter what you choose to do, whether it be skateboarding or snow boarding or high level archery. Are you guys at fucking pull those bows back for 30 years? How fucked up shoulders and next? Of course. And, and we just have to realize that if you're going to do anything, it's like you said, reps make the champion and repetition makes the injury. You know, and that's the, that's that coin that reps coin reps is how you win and how you get fucking hurt. Like you wear stuff out and you will be doing it. That reps reps reps. Which is, which is why though, you know, I promote and I'm kind of the anti throwback body of other guy where people are like, just get a job where you can make sure you can eat your food and make sure and I'm always like, how fucking long to take it each of food? What are you talking about? I'm like, get a child that makes you money. Yeah, this is not cheap. I spent $150 a week on needleing a week. Think about that. But guess what? It's the reason that five years ago, I thought I was almost done and now I'm like, I'm going to be the biggest I've ever been this year. Yeah, yeah, I love it because because someone, but again, because you have the money to do those things and also understanding that all kidding aside, you don't need the new truck. You don't need the Jordan's and all these things. You need priorities to figure out if this is really something you want to do. But I just, I literally hit a soft spot, but I saw a coach put up a post that said that. Don't get a job that's going to distract from this. I'm like, what are you fucking talking about? The odds of you doing this as a career are almost none. You might do it. But come on, man, your advice to people is to don't live just do this for while living mom's basement. Yeah, not get off. Like, you know, I ran businesses and did a shit. I just found ways. I have clients that are surgeons and they're like, okay, so I drank a half of the shake and then three hours later, I had the other half and then 45 minutes later, I had the next meal. I was like, you got it and I don't give a shit. Yeah. You know, so I know, I know it gets a little off track, but when I hear those things, it's just a reminder. It's like, think about how much money she was talking about. In two visits to this guy, one visits to the carer character every week. Yeah, you know, so you have to be prepared to do those things and have the finances to do it. Yeah, and it's just bodybuilding can't be as all in as everyone pretends and I just don't think it's that hard. I'm at the gym for two hours a day, including cardio if I really need to be and I can eat meals in six minutes. Right. Like, we we're not that busy. It's not that hard. You know what I mean? So I don't know, it's funny. It does help to get this leap. You need to work on that. I'm working. I'm working. My goal for you is that by the time you retire, you will have actually had an eight-hour sleep. That could be it'd be interesting. Right now though, I'm chopping it up. I have a new system that literally works. I'll be probably been sleeping for real, a sleep for five to six hours a night. And the secret was this, I fall asleep for like three hours and then I wake up. I just get up and I do some stuff and then when I start to feel even remotely tired again, I eat a meal real quick and go back to sleep. So now I literally have been going to bed like one in the morning. I wake up at like three or four and then I'll eat my usual seven o'clock meal at five or six. And then just sleep as long as I can, which might put me right over that seven. I don't care. Then I'm up and good to go. I saw someone, I think I might have been on Rogan. Someone might remember. He was talking about how it's actually our actual most natural way to sleep is to get like 60% of our sleep at night and then have a long nap in the early afternoon. Right. Really? He said that's how he, that's what he recommends. If people can, you know, people who are able to, you know, maybe they only get four hours of sleep, but then they get like a two and a half hour nap. And then like super energized and work really well into the evening and all that sort of stuff. Yeah, it's interesting. I love it. Maybe my stumble was, yeah, somewhat silent. Because literally the only thing that happened was I got sick of maybe they'll scan your brain one day and then go, you know what you should be doing? You should be sleeping three hours twice and you're going to go, I do that. And they're going to go, there you go, that's what you should be doing. We're going to jump you. Yeah. Awesome. Well, solid. I think we've got, uh, I'm hoping I haven't finalized, but we should have another really solid guest for next week. Okay. So I'm not working on that. You're still on. Yes, at least one. At least one. Okay. I believe in you Dusty as you should. You know, so happy new year. I guess. Shit. I'm not about saying it. Yeah. We, well, because we don't really believe in so people like, what's your friend here? I'm like, we ordered pizza and watched a documentary. You know what's bad is, you'll laugh, but, uh, so new years obviously is the biggest time of year. Yeah. Yeah. And then on the second, I was like, I didn't pay the mortgage. Like literally the time that I have a giant worldwide warning to remember to do this. I was like, I mean, obviously you have time so it doesn't matter. I just laughed. I was like, this is the first time I've ever like not paid on the first. The day the hair is reminded me. So make a quick prediction. Yes. Do you think what month and do you think this year do we get past the, let's say capacity restrictions on businesses? Assuming things stay the way they look to be staying in the U.S. as far as our government. I don't know that we will get past them at all. If we do, it'll be third quarter at best. I just don't, I see them trying to haunt it down even further than it already is. My hopes quite honestly and I know a lot of you're going to be really mad at me for saying this is that people start to understand that, uh, in the U.S. our constitution was made to protect the people from the government and we're forgetting that. Right. So I feel like I've told people a million times because so many people bitch about the masks and this and that and like, oh, well then stop wearing it. Right. Because if it's one of you, people will probably, hey, but you fucking mask on. If it's 50% of the people who walk into the business, they're going to say we need to stay open and they will let you walk through and buy your shit and walk out. Yeah, you guys have, uh, have that that constitution you guys have is a beautiful thing. Yeah, you guys don't have that, but I do think that, I mean, I guess yours is voided when they decide they don't want to let you. Well, they've had a couple of people try to keep their businesses open here and the government is as far as the barbecue place, the government just sees this business. Yeah, let's take it. And that's I mean, you know, but I am hopeful and like we do, so here, the other thing that I have an issue with here is so the rules are changing and no one tells you. Right. So in our gym, we were told we had to wear masks. Well, you know, of course, hey, I don't keep the gym open. I'll wear a damn mask. Well, I wear one of those plastic ones that don't do shit that looks like a reverse hockey visor. Cool. That's within the rules. Well, then I find out actually during your heavy set, you could take that off. Oh, really. They changed the rule. Like during which before they were like, we don't even shit what you're doing. If you're in that building, you have a mask on. But you can find that out. I'm like, well, when did that happen? Right. But no gyms know that around town. So they will come yell at you. If you pull the down, not knowing well, that's now your policy, which is fine if you want to leave it. Right. But if you want to the legal policy, right, take it off. Yeah. So what's happening here in while where we live is you don't have to wear your mask while you're engaging in exercise. Exactly. We tell our members, God, have a mask on, but you can take it down when you're doing your sets. Then pull the back on and walk to your next machine. You're best to wear it for the rest of the time and we'll get around. But what a lot of other gyms are doing, especially the big chains, is what happens is you get someone who's a complainer and they'll see someone who has their mask down and maybe they reach for a plate and to put a plate on their machine. And so they're going to go up and go, that guy left his station with his mask down for a second. He didn't pull his mask up when he reached for that plate. Or he took his dumbbells to the rack back to the rack without putting his mask up. Because they'll like have the dumbbells of put him back on the rack and pull their mask up and walk away. Right. And spray the spray the handles and they'll go, well, that guy's not that guy was, you know, he bubbled the machine. Yeah. And it's just the complaints pouring at such a ridiculous level from these insane lunatics that they just go, fuck it, everyone has to wear the mask a whole time. Can't take it down. Right. Because they just, they can't put up with it. They can't manage all the complainers and all the fear, the people that are super afraid and they just can't handle it. However, with our gym, because we have a much smaller membership base, we're like, and plus we're like, no, we're only going to enforce the mandate. Yeah. You know, the mandate is you have to wear it unless you're exercising. So that's what we ask people to do. So the only thing that makes life difficult for us a little bit is some people take their mask off and put it in their pocket when they do their set. Yeah. And then someone sees them and goes, that guy doesn't have a mask on at all. And they complain. And so we've had, we have to deal with that sometimes. I'll tell people, Mike, listen, can you just keep it on your chin? Yeah. No, I do the same. You'll see in all my videos now. Yeah. I just like, I mean, I want to want to go on and off. But I do have the exact same reason because when I post a video, I don't want to be like, so you just don't give a fuck. And I actually don't. But I do because of the gym. You know, we have here that sucks that we've had to deal with is so you can be an anonymous complainer to the health department. And but zero proof required. Yeah. Yeah. Meaning I own dusty gym down the street from West Coast iron and you're kicking my ass. Yep. I just send it to a plank and I know that that has happened at Argym because we he got more more on people about wearing masks like here's like guys, we got to stay open. And I'm even telling people like, hey, put on your like, no, all of your sets pull it down whatever. And then we randomly got a complaint and I'm like, well, I know a gym right down the street. There's a 30% what they used to be and you signed up 11 members today. Yeah. But you sure I know who the anonymous complainers, it's not the people in here. Yep. Yeah. Oh, like guaranteed that's happening. Again, there's a lot of that happening. So up here, 100% of their inspections, while I was told that they told me the 100% of their inspections are complaint driven. Good. So we know we've had by-law a couple times. We've had works a couple times. We've had fire department a couple times. But they all came down and they're like, oh, man, you guys are like, you're kicking ass down here and like, what more can you do? Everyone's got a spray bottle, you know, you're well ventilated. Everyone's got their mass on. So they understand that they're chasing down a lot of bullshit complaints. And then even that it's funny too, because even the guys that come in like the by-law guys that came in, they're like, yeah, some of the stuff that we hear, I mean, some people just shouldn't be leaving their house. They're just not ready. Right. Yeah. They're just not ready to leave their house. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, they're just too freaked out. Yeah. So yeah. I mean, I don't know, what do you do? Do you agree that I just, I don't see it's changing anytime soon as far as I think I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm thinking third quarter too. I'm, I'm, I'm very, a positive thinker. I like to stay positive that, you know, things are going to get better. But I, I think they're probably going to, we're going to be, you know, under some sort of restriction until I think at least third quarter. Right. So, but hey, man, if, you know, as long as we, as long as we don't get shot, we're, we want to cruise through this next fucking third wave. Yeah, don't. I, that's how I feel. I think the part that's bad is the insulting part, like when it's so obvious, like, hey, you need to watch this, this, and this, and this, but, you know, we're filling every seat of a airplane. Yeah. Well, up here in Canada, we're having all these scandals, because, you know, they're the Canadian government said, um, it's highly recommended. You do not travel and all this stuff, and then all the politicians went to Mexico for New Year's. Yeah. And so, and, and took all these holidays and all the people are just like, like, fucking pissed. Yeah. Well, that's, and that's the norm, and that's what we have here. So, I think that that's going to be the explosion is because when it's ridiculous, like, I, I tell people, like, I understand it doesn't make sense. I'm taking my mask off during my set. It's when I'm breathing and doing the most actually. But on the flip, no one is ever within six feet of me while I'm doing that other than my training partner. So, I'm, I'm not concerned, but yeah, I think that as long as people have that attitude, I'm just happy, like, right now, man, every time I come to the gym and there's people in there, as much as I enjoyed it for self-ish reasons, that's good to come in and have to look for parking. That makes me happy. I do want to get my arms by. I love when I show up and I have to look for parking. Yeah, I bet you do. I don't make any money on the deal. I'm still happy. I hope you two one day. Okay, man. Thanks, Dusty. Thanks, everybody. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, ring the bell. Make sure you follow Missy Truscott and, you know, like all our photos and support her and cheer for her next year at the Arnold. Yes, I love her, she's doing it too. Thanks for her and once again for coming on the show. Thanks, Dusty. Yeah, don't let me tell it. You bet. Remember, remember, it's just bodybuilding.

Look at all this variation. So this person, I mean, I put a question mark there because the high dose is pretty good. This growth hormone is 350 on the high dose. It's 510. That's not okay. That's a 30% drop. Roughly. So yeah, I don't like that much. But look at this guy. 281 1128. Not with 25 milligrams a day with five. What? With five? What is that? That's a fourfold elevation. Yeah. With an it's a bit CT and CT dose. Yeah. But it's a but yeah. Then what's the 302 after it with the high dose? That's the same 281 to 302. Like high dose does nothing. Yeah, that's a zippo. I'm so confused by this man. I mean, I'm not confused. But it's a perplexed. A beautiful example. I'm going to kind of cover some ideas. It's a beautiful example of biological entry into the jolly. Hmm. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Muslimites with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McDaily and all the other programming is brought to you by Scott's book, BYOBBCoach.com. That's B-ROMBODY BLINKOCH. Right now you can get a hard cover. If you go through the link in the description that Scott will sign for you. So definitely check that out. And a portion of those proceeds are going to go to help with a dog rescue. We're also brought to you by of course, Trunutrition.com. Use our code, think over there for high quality through party test supplements. I just bought the cookie butter protein butter for the first time in my life. I got that. I'm getting back to it way isolate. And I absolutely freaking love that flavor. SupplementSource.ca for Canadians. And of course, Patreon. Scott already has the wheels turning on one of the Patreon questions. I have a feeling it's about the benefits of whole foods versus protein powders. But we might not be able to get to that today because I know that you have a freaking big one line. Well, you don't consider the big one. But I'm excited. And you can probably go into an hour on this. And basically it's all about MK677, which kind of was super popular back in what 2012ish. I used it back then. And now I'm out of hearing more people using it again. So I guess before we dive into it, can you first tell us for anybody that doesn't know what is MK677? Maybe we just start there. I've got it in the PowerPoint. That's in the PowerPoint. All right. Sometimes you just dive in. And then you know, what are we getting? It will intro. Okay. Okay. I shouldn't have doubted you for a second. No. Well, sometimes I just, I just go right to the data, right? I just send you a picture. Yeah, it's not. I figured. But I figured this one could be a little more formal because there's there's some things to tease apart and the PowerPoint will help keep the information organized. So, you know, you can share a presentation here. I'm going to just share a screen. All right. See. And we want to see what happens. This one. And I want to tell you guys that this is literally. So I've seen Scott do presentations before. You know, I got, I was lucky enough to go to some of the seminars you had done with John Meadows. And it's amazing stuff. This is literally basically like a presentation that you would have people come and pay to see you do. You know, I'm excited for this, man. Yeah. This isn't that, I mean, I just threw this together. I really didn't even have, there's going to be, I'll apologize. I've got my computer completely set up in German and it doesn't do a good job with spell checking. Okay. So there would be mistakes in here that I didn't see because normally they have a red underline on them. But so MK677 and people, this is an orally bio-available growth hormone is a creed a dog. It binds to the gray and reset period. I'll cover that a little bit in the next. And the next slide. But the idea is this keeps on coming up. And I dressed that in the very last slide. It's the, the, people have been studying this for more than 25 years. So one of the studies is, few of the studies are very actually old. So it'd been around for a while. But it really, I think you're right, 2012, 2010s. I don't know exactly. It's been a decade. It's been sort of floating around and used on and off again. And part of what I'm getting at is here in this, from a grand picture from the forest versus the trees view, is that there's a, probably, there's potentially a reason from that for that that we can glean from the research literature. There's some also other things that I went into previously when we had the other podcast that's floating around in the, in the fourth dimension of the internet ethers. Yeah, for any of you guys who want to check it out, look for advice as radio on iTunes. There are all audio podcasts. And you might even find some Easter eggs like the first 15 of them or 20 of them have Jordan Peters in it. I think I'm so 21. I met my wife, you know, literally met my wife on the show that was like up to so 19 or something, man. Yes, yes indeed. So this is a cursory inquiry. I did not do the deep dive that I would if I were writing a paper for this, an article for instance for like John Meadow side or for someone else. I just pulled out some studies that already had, I think I found some other ones. I did actually part of the reason. I'll show you, I wasted some time when we say, wasted. I spent a lot of time trying to find some pharmacological data, pharmacokinetic data. So there was a mistake right there. Buying's the Graylin receptor in the anterior pituitary. So this is what MK677 does causes growth home when release. The half life, I've seen between four and five or four to seven hours. I have not actually been able to find, I have numerous papers that cite a certain half life. You go to the paper. They cited, doesn't contain any half life data. One paper that was cited was testing other similar substances to MK677. Let me go back here. Are you guys, are you seeing just the slide or you seeing, I'm just seeing the presentation? Okay good, because I have another view here because I have dual monitor set up. So making sure. But you can see on the bottom right there there is here, I can oops. Oh, this is weird. Oh, we're here. I want to use my cursor. There it is. So this is another name for if someone wants to dig in, this is another name for MK677. It's called a buterum messulate as well. Good morning. People just notice a buterum, more and often. Zero in here, but there was a paper for instance, a half looking at half life data. And it looked at half life for all sorts of, it looked examined other substances with names similar to this. But not this one. So I looked everywhere and this happens unfortunately somewhat regularly when I try to find basic data. Someone just takes someone else's interpretation or someone else's value and they cite that. They don't cite the original research. The one, the one source that didn't get to look into was a book that I would have had to buy and go to the links to buy the book. It's possible that there's original data published in a book, but typically books would be citing other data. You're not publishing new research. It happens right now and again in books. But so what happens then when we get this GH releases is we have the Samada Meiden hypothesis, it's my hypothesis that play here. So the GH causes IGF one release and IGF one is this is a holder topic. We've got a long talk on that on John Meadows site. But this is something that is indicative of positive nitrogen balance of it has anabolic effects. And we have data for instance in Beagles, Beagles have been studied in particular. It's used a good bit with animal research work, but looking at growth increases in growth hormone peaks at using a very high dose. So for 100 kilogram bodybuilder, this would be 1 milligram per kilogram but you have to convert that to animal doses. Animal doses in the human doses. So it's still more than the 25 milligram dose you typically see. So there's a little bit of dose response data that I can show you, but it's very, very interesting because it doesn't show a dose response pattern. So I'm foreshadowing here. The interesting thing we see this in this is these animal data, let me get this out of the way here. Is that sorry, I can't see, can you see the bottom, I think you can, I've got my toolbar here at the bottom showing you. The lowest, under, the lowest I can see is under the word day, I see seven is the lowest one, the lowest number I can see, it goes day. You can see that I can't 1, 7, 14, 1, 7. That's this far as I can see down. Okay, let me do something real quick here. Oh man, let me try something here. Does I want to bring this up a little bit? Oh, there's a 14 under that I see. All right. Yeah, sorry about that. Beautiful. I see what you're doing now. Yeah, cool. I just want to see we can see that. So, um, oh, no, I have that problem. We'll bring that. We'll put this right here. All right, so, yeah, that works. That's just fine. I do that a lot with my move of the things around. So what we see here is that this tacky phal axis, this loss of sensitivity, or loss of effects over time. So here is um, oops. Day one, seven and 14 giving this pretty high dose, terms of the peak and the area under the curve. So this is sort of a cumulative value that tells you how much growth hormone is is elevated. In this case, on an hourly basis, or sorry, on a daily basis. And on the first day, we have, and here's our vehicle. So this is our control value. Three is the value for peak growth hormone, 19 for area under the curve. If we look at day one, this three becomes 70 and this 19 becomes one. And I says, the 10 fold increase right here. This is a 20 folding increase. This is again in vehicles. But this 70 a week later becomes 11. And then 14 is about the same. So we have an immediate loss of effectiveness, or a loss of effectiveness a week later. And the effectiveness pertain is sustained for the next seven days. So 11, 13 are still higher than three. In terms of of area of the curve, 43 is still higher than 19. So we still have a doubling of growth hormone elevation. Okay. So you're saying that that three and that 19 that's the normal bubbles. These are our vehicle levels. So this is where they take basic. It's not a placebo, but they actually inject the animals. I think this, no, this is an oral daily administration. Pre-sure this was oral. So they give them the call to vehicle. It's the placebo. It's the non-active inner ingredients. So this is yeah. And you can see if we look at this number stays pretty stable. It's three, four, five, I-19, 21, 25. I mean, these animals are probably growing. So sometimes you see I-GF1 will change over time. But this is pretty stable. But when we're giving the MK677, you've got double the area of the curve for growth hormone. We've got if we look at I-GF1 before it's given and then forward an 80 minutes later, you get some elevation here. Interestingly enough, we see something different with I-GF1. It has a very long half-life. So I-GF1 has binding proteins that extend its half-life. So if growth hormone is elevated and it is persistently, it's just that after that first day, the extent of the growth hormone elevation drops precipitously. It goes from 190 to 43. Right? So we're at like one fifth, basically a week later. What you got on the first day. But growth hormone is still elevated over the control condition. This is our vehicle condition. So we're talking in the 80s here initially because there's nothing being given. We stay in the 70s or the 80s. There's no elevation relative to giving the MK677. But again, it's pretty stable. We do have elevated I-GF1. And that's what you see persistently in these studies. I'm going to show in the next slides is you see a growth hormone elevation that's much greater with the first administration. It's still in elevation growth hormone, but there's a loss of sensitivity to it to the MK677. I-GF1 is on the rise after the first day. And it will continue to rise. Despite the fact that your growth hormone release is not as powerful over time, there's still an elevation when you're giving us the MK677 on daily basis. There's still an elevation of growth hormone. So you get this rise in I-GF1. This is pretty cool. So this is the serum growth hormone in terms of minutes after they give the MK677. These are the control animals. These lines here basically nothing's happening there. They're not even getting a pulse at all or release here for whatever reason. Or maybe there is some, but it's basically a flatline. But in these three animals, when they gave the MK677, there was an increase in growth hormone going out here to like six hours or so. So this represents the peak. So we're going from three in this case, that's interesting. These are averages, so maybe they took a peak and there's only goes to 30, whereas this goes to 70. So somewhere in here there was a higher number but they measure this at certain time point. So this is the same study. This may have been just those three animals and not all of them. So that's the discrepancy there. So we've got tacky, relaxes, loss of sensitivity, but IGF1 still will climb over the days when you take it on a daily basis. Here's another dog study. Same sort of deal. Here we see vehicle and then day one, so one after having given the MK677. Here, the individual dogs too, they all have their own numbers. They didn't name them phyto and etc. etc. But we see this area under the curve with growth hormone. Here it's 28. Here it goes to almost 10 times that eight times that maybe. But then by day four, we're back down to being just about double in terms of area of the curve. So the growth hormone is literally now within four days, not a week but within four days we're seeing this tacky flexus and loss of sensitivity. So we're going eight ninefold on the first day and then we're back to maybe twofold. So this is something I point out in that previous podcast that that I mentioned is there maybe there is a strategy I haven't seen this test that this is purely theoretical. But it maybe it takes one, two, we don't know how many days to reset that sensitivity. And given you're getting so much more area under the curve, let's say you could get this 243 or this high value that's eight times as high as if you had no MK 77. And you do that every other day. Yeah. Right. You might be able to then who knows. I don't know what the timeframe is for resensitizing. But it's possible that you could end up taking a lesser dose by doing toggling the dose on an every other day or every third day basis and get essentially the same amount of growth hormone released over those days. It's going to be sort of it's not pulsatile with the same timeframe as normal growth hormone is pulsatile. There actually another study that shows increased number of pulses with growth hormone with the MK 677 and that's kind of interesting. But so there's some this idea is coming coming forth that there's loss of sensitivity. Here's the IGF ones values here and we see about 47 or so becomes then at the foreign 80 minute post administration comes 85 and then it continues to rise. So even though between day one and day four we've lost growth hormone secretion sensitivity we still have higher growth hormone when they're using it every day so that MK so the IGF one continues to rise and then that eventually would black to off. Guys I gotta take a break to do the whole like share subscribe thing but I also want to say thank you to you. The internet's kind of a weird place in case you didn't know and I'm glad that we've put the community together that we have. I'm grateful to read your comments in fact. I know a lot of YouTubers that don't read comments. I read all of them and I try to get back to everybody. So if you comment I will see it and I'll try to get back to you. Also the like button is absolutely free of charge. You don't have to pay anything to hit it and it does help us out of ton. It's not gonna like push us into your algorithm but it will help other people to hopefully find the show. So if you like our stuff please try to help us out. So so I'm gonna this is another study from NOS at Al and I have all these references for someone who wants them. But we've got three studies coming up. This one is with older folks. Another one is with obese people and another one is with dieting subjects. So when people diet their IGF1 goes down for sure. Actually growth homeroom could potentially be elevated but IGF1 goes down for sure. In older, oh no, obese people they will tend to have lower GH and lower IGF1. The whole idea of growth hormone with an anti aging idea comes from the very very clear data that growth hormone release lowers. It becomes lower as we get older and you see this also with older folks. Or sorry obese people. Really. So this is this is with a study with men and women age 60 to 81, 25 milligrams a day. So this is our standard dose. I think the rest of the studies all use this and this is humans. These aren't dogs. And they were given that per day. Here are starting values for growth hormone. We got a placebo group and MK677 group. baseline values are the same. Basically there's a large minimum and maximum here in terms of mean growth hormone. But if we look at six months and just looking at the arithmetic mean change, they also do geometric mean and that's a kind of a whole other topic unto itself. They do geometric mean. So if you want the geometric mean of like one seven and 14 you take one time 17 by times 14 and then you take the cube root of that. That's kind of a total aside. That's better for things that seem to distribute themselves in a kind of a nonlinear fashion. So anyway that's we're going to ignore these values for now just for that reason because it's difficult for folks who never heard of geometric means to kind of make sense of. But looking at growth hormone we've gone from this is an arithmetic mean change of 0.81 and then we've added 0.57 into that. So it's about a 60% increase in mean growth hormone over 24 hours. That's roughly equivalent to what we're getting from an area under the curve value. That's six months in. So you're still getting maybe about a 60% increase in growth hormone over the course of a day doing 25 milligrams per day over six months in older folks. It's important here. So this matches kind of matches the dog data. If we look 12 months in basically the same increment over the baseline values. If we look at IGF1, we're at 87 here. Micrograms per liter. It's a stable values. They just put just put the value and they drew it a particular time. And we're getting about the same increments going from 87 to 50 in this case different values. It's about a 60% increase. We're still at 45 12 months later. So taking it every day for six months, 12 months, you basically got a persistent elevation of IGF1. And this is again, older people with IGF1 deficiency. We would expect everyone's different. There's a lot of variability here. So here's the study with obese subjects. In this case, they're doing initiation treatment. This was after the first dose. So some of these baseline measurements are baseline without MK77 in it. Six 77 in it. In this case, the first dose was after they give in a singular dose. So here we have a placebo. We're looking at just peak GH. This is fence in it out. We'll be subject again. The 25 milligrams per day. Here's our non supplemented and here's our supplemented diet. So huge increase in what the peak GH was. A little bit different measurement, but it's gigantic. That's 30 fold. Right? 32 and half. Or something. Right? But this 65, we're still running around two. In fact, it's a little bit lower here. But this is two and eight weeks in. So we're in the two, two, one-to-two value range here. It's always nice to have a placebo because this is sort of trending downward. I don't think there was anything significant about that change. Otherwise, they'd have a value here. Right? But there's some variability. But this 65, which is a 34 plus increase at two weeks in, now, becomes 17. Right? So we've got a 20 to 30 fold increase here in growth hormone. Same pattern with growth hormone area in the curve. Right? So we're just looking at growth hormone now. Right? But there's in this major tacky phalaxis. It goes from 144 to 33. Only at a five to 10 fold increase. This is still good. Right? This is fantastic. So impressive. Yeah. Right. Exactly. But, you know, your body's producing like one to two I use of growth hormone a day and an average healthy person. So if you're taking eight I use or 10 I use, let's say, that could be a 10 fold increase, too. So this is pretty impressive. In these, in this case, obese subjects who are growth hormone deficient. So it's very important to point that out. This is the rationale behind doing these studies is to figure out what medical application things like MK67 could have. Right? So, but we got this tacky phalaxis again. We're going from really high values on the first dose and we're losing a good bit of what we once got off the first dose. But it still persists in this case up to about eight weeks. And here is an interesting study. This is from 1998. This has been around forever. Right? This is with dieting subjects. They put them on a caloric deficit. And this was an interesting study. So they had they died of them for a week. I'm going to look at it. This is a different figure. We'll go back to the table up above. But they died it for a week. And then they added MK67 or standard 25 milligrams dose. They can pair that to placebo. And we got a nice, our peak GH was much higher. So this is five and a half sixfold higher. The area under the curve is even higher than that. Even more than that. We're talking about an eightfold increase here. And then by day 14. So this is the first day of MK67. It's day eight of the study. It died for a week. One on the next day of the second week. They got the MK67. Great response to GH. They took it for a week. And now we're getting we're losing about half of our responsiveness. Okay? So still this. But these are individuals that are dieting. And they had been dieting, right? So this is a situation where especially in terms of IGF1, we're going to expect a loss of IGF1. And you actually actually see that here. They diet. This is IGF1 values. And they go from let's just say they're pretty close to one another. That's like 230. And they drop down into the 170,580,885. So we're losing 230 to 180. You know, we're losing 20% 25% of a variety of F1. An old way that people used to use it, old trick that people would do to try to get a doctorate to prescribe them. GH would be the diet. Yeah. Really hard. Because your IGF1 will down. And because of this situation, this relationship growth hormone stimulates IGF1 release, less growth hormone means less IGF1 people think, okay, your IGF1 is low. So your growth hormone release must be low. You need to replacement dose. Yeah. But that's what happens when you diet. IGF1 is is controlling in a global sense, whole body and ablism. That's reflective of whole body and ablism. So here's the cool thing. So this is nitrogen balance. And there's issues with nitrogen balance. It's not the best. And there's not really terribly quantitative, but sort of a qualitative indicator of protein balance or how will you're able to hold on to fat-free mass, muscle masses. What we're worried about. So these are the day-to-day values for the placebo NMK677. And nitrogen balance is negative. When they're dieting here, it's kind of, and it's actually kind of creeping back that actually happens. That's not so unusual. But when they added MK677, they then went into barely here for back to neutral. And then they went into what was for at least part of that week where they took the MK677 positive, slightly positive nitrogen balance. So you'd expect this would then mean that you're going to be able to hold on a muscle mass better. Because you've got more IGF1, you've got more growth hormone too. That's helping with fat loss, that's changing the sources of fuel that you need in order to make up for that caloric deficit. It comes from being in a dieting situation. So this is sort of points in the direction of MK677 having some beneficial effects while dieting. Problem with that being for most people is that you get an appetite elevation from that too. So yeah, yeah, you can kind of be fucked there. And what I suspect happens, and this is actually a dress in this next study, a little bit, I don't know I have to go and look now that I think of it to see if if they measured cortisol, you see sometimes a slight elevation in cortisol from MK677. But if someone is, for instance, let's say they're just ravenous, right? And they really, really want to eat and they have to resist that and makes the diet more stressful. It would make sense to me that cortisol could also be elevated. So that could work against you to some degree. So there might be some fine tuning, like how much MK677 would you use for this? How much creates that unwanted side effect of an increase in appetite that then could stress you out and actually basically work against your goals of just having better fat free retention instead. You're so stressed and so hungry, you binge, right? Or the cortisol, you know, counteracts the impact of to some degree of the MK677 on IGF1. So but that's an interesting study. So now, what happened most of our listeners are, I would be, we talked a little bit this before the podcast, but we've got a lot of healthy young men here, right? Young or middle-age men that don't have growth hormone deficiency that they know of. This is all those three slides put together. I just put them in the other, in the case we want to go back to it. So here's a study. This one is from Colpinshi, it's here. Okay, someone wants that. From 1996, 27 year, they were 18 to 31 at average, 27 year old, Maryle males. This was a low versus high dose comparison. So they kind of had the ability to create a dose response sorry for this typo. Typo variable. Now it's fixed. All right, perfect. Now it's good. No, no, no, no, no, it's that. So they went for one week, nothing placebo. One week on a low dose, so five milligrams per day. So very low dose, like this is a very economical dose if you think it about money. And then the standard 25 milligrams dose. And then they took two weeks off to wash out the effects of having had whichever condition where they were in and came back and of course they they ran to mice them. So this was a crossover design. So we have, in this case nine subjects here. And we can compare a couple of different things for the actual individuals. Number of pulses. Um, per 24 hours after seven days of treatment with with the same. So this is at the end. This is the last day. This isn't looking at the first day versus the last day. This is looking seven days in to treatment with a low dose. So five milligrams. This is the five versus a high dose. This is the 25. Sorry, that's my best. So, um, interestingly enough, we look across that here are averages. We went from seven on average to 11. So that was an increase in number of pulses. Like that's that's a whole thing. Yeah, that's nice. But if we look at 24 hours secretion. So total secretion. Right. This is in micrograms. There was nothing. Zipo. I mean, statistically speaking, four hundred, fourteen. And this is actually the most important comparison. This is in the placebo. So no, in case this is our control. And then four hundred and twenty six with the twenty five milligrams dose. That's no difference at all. Interestingly enough, it was a significant. But the number that would you is the numerically the highest was with the low dose. Huh. And if we look here, this is this value is a standard deviation. So this is five, 44. Yeah. And there is a huge standard of it, standard deviation. Here's almost equivalent to the value itself. That's monstrous. Normally, you see standard deviations. If something is a, there's a very common phenomenon. Um, you will see standard deviations that are much, much, much less than the actual value itself. The percentage, like a single digit percentage often less than 50 percent of the value for sure. That's a huge, huge standard deviation. And so I've for all the squiggly theory. But we have some interesting things going. Just looking at total GH released at the end of these seven days. So this is really like what's going on after been using MK675 milligrams a day and a week in. So you've got that tacky phal axis is now no longer. Doesn't it's not a matter. You just, you basically have that's happened. You still got some growth or elevation or you would if you were someone who's deficient. In this case, when these individuals are not deficient. These are young males. They're not older. They're not obese. We don't have any dieting situation going on. We're not getting on average on average any elevation in growth hormone over the 24 hours. We're getting more pulses. But average growth hormone release in total is not elevated in these individuals with either a lower high dose on average. Super important. So let's take a look at this subject number one here. I got circled in green and I won't write on this anymore. So placebo is 558 low dose almost 1,400. That's more than twice. That's a doubling. The high dose is less. It's less than a doubling. This is 2 and a half almost 2 and a 3 quarters times it's high. The high dose is less. This is an inverted U dose response for this individual. Logo down one line. I think that's 3657. This individual goes from 3657. Their low dose. They actually go down. It's less. The high dose, they go up, but it's pretty much the same. 428 is really a mathmatic. There's a difference there, but that's not really, you're not getting a lot of bang for your buck if you're only going up 15-20%. It's better than nothing. But this person had a U-shaped dose response. They actually got less growth. So this is the growth home on go down. Well, high dose, no. Low dose. Yes. Here's an individual. Look at this guy. 510. Bottom down. 85. Hoax it. This is why the individual subject data is so important to have. And I always like, I'm like, yes, jackpot. They should know the individual data. Because you don't see these phenomena from the averages. You don't see this shit. You see it when you look at the standard deviation. Like, okay, something's wacky going on here. Look at all this variation. So this person, I mean, I put a question mark there because the high dose was pretty good. This growth home on his 350 on the high dose. It's 510. That's not okay. That's a 30% drop. Roughly. So, yeah. And I like that much. But look at this guy. 281. 1128. Not with 25 milligrams a day with 5. What? With 5. What is that? That's a fourfold elevation. Yeah. With an itsy bitsy tintsy wentsy dose. But spot it. Yeah. Then what's the 302 after it with the high dose? That's the same. 211 to 302. Like high dose does nothing. Yeah. That's a zippo. I'm so confused by this man. I mean, I'm not confused. But in superplexed. It's a beautiful example. I'm going to kind of cover some ideas. It's a beautiful example of biological entering to the duality. So, so like let's we have a if let's just take a look at this value here. Let's just look. So what happened here? We don't know. This is at the end of seven days the high dose. Right? This individual maybe there was maybe they got a good response at day one. And then the 25 milligrams was so high and so much overkill for them. The tacky phylaxis was essentially complete. They literally lost complete sensitivity to the MK67. But when they had a little dose of five milligrams, very small dose. There may have been lesser absorption. I haven't seen absorption value for low versus high dose. They may have had a really, really four-day unique biology. Obviously we're all humans. We all, you know, there's very many things in common genetically. But there's lots of variability amongst this as we're seeing here. This five milligrams dose was just enough to get a really nice response because you're really sensitive. We've seen those studies. You're really sensitive with the initial dose. But it wasn't so much to cause. Whatever is creating that tacky phylaxis. So maybe a smaller dose was just perfect for this person in a certain way to give them a really good response. And then it was out of the system. Clear to wake. It's just much smaller dose. It's going to be easier for the liver to process that. And then you get a little bit lower. So a smaller amount was absorbed for sure because it was only five. Right? And so they didn't have tacky phylaxis. Who would be able to see this person? Were they getting 11, 10, 11, 1200 from the first dose? And it stayed that way because they just used five milligrams. So, and here's the thing. So one more thing. Here we get, it gets to some concluding remarks here. But so this is what happened to IGF1. Right? So we really didn't see, this is very interesting because the average for high of GH 24-hour secretion did not go up with the high dose. But if we look at placebo versus high dose in terms of IGF1, it seems to be higher. It is trending up. This is that there's a dose response here, low dose to high dose. So there's some nuances of the of the pharmacokinetics here. And the dynamics of growth hormone release, then causing IGF1 release. So there was some elevation in IGF1. Right? At the higher doses, it seemed to be trending upward. But again, if we look at the individuals, so each of these little dots here, the open triangle or the closed triangle, the circles, the closed squares, etc. show individual subjects. Remember, this is a crossover. This I'll cover the one on the bottom here. This is the this person, I don't know which subject number it was. They may have been in the caption there. But this is the IGF1 after the placebo. At the low dose, it went up. And then at the high dose, it came back down. Inverted you. This could have been this guy subject number eight. We were just talking about. Here is someone who shows sort of that same inverted you a little bit. It's not really that powerful. Here's someone who showed a dose response. They got more of IGF1 elevation after one week of the 25 milligram. So there was an upward trend in terms of IGF1. And on average, you did see this to some degree. So, but it's not anything like we were seeing in these other studies. We're talking about much greater elevations than IGF1. Not so much here with the dieting, but if we look at these older folks, let's see go back to the older folks. We're talking about 60% elevations in both GH and IGF1. So this isn't. And this is like 250 and this maybe it's not that bad. But it's not as substantial and it's highly variable. Yeah, highly variable. As a coach, it just gets me thinking immediately like, hey, maybe if you have somebody who is really out of shape, you know, a lot of times we're like, hey, you don't need to take anything just get into a healthy diet and get into better. And that is true. You know what I mean? But hey, maybe they would more benefit from better benefit from MK. Older folks, obese folks, folks who tend to be deficient in growth hormone or NRIGF1, they would be like a better candidate. These studies and again, this is just a cursory view. There's some studies probably that I didn't dig up that I didn't find. I've looked at this a few times. But these are the ones that I thought I could in a what I was hoping to kind of a short presentation would kind of be examples. It wasn't trying to cherry pick at all. Sure. There's some ideas here that can be gleaned from this, I think. But if someone knows of a really important study that Francis contradicts this one or what have you let me know, the very, very well could be out there. I just put this together yesterday afternoon and look through it again this morning. So is there really a consistent dose response in terms of growth hormone? Yeah, I don't know, but not consistent. For some people it goes the other way. And that creates mayhem, right? Yeah. So it's very, very interesting. Like another thing here. So like this is here's IGF1, in this case with the placebo group, right? And it's pretty stable, right? And IGF1 is not determined solely by growth hormone. So insulin is important for IGF1, you're just your, your overall antibody picture is reflected in IGF1 and it's also controlled by IGF1. So oops, sorry, we go back to here and we're looking at, let's take a look at this person here with who had this sort of inverted you. And their growth hormone went down on the low dose, right? I don't know which person they are here in terms of IGF1, but they might have been someone, like this isn't, then maybe, but it doesn't, this person might not have seen a loss of reduction in IGF1 because growth hormone went down because they weren't dieting, right? They were just had less growth hormone and that's not everything that changes IGF1. It's not, that's not the only thing steering IGF1. But if growth hormone goes up, like it did for instance for this person or this guy, this may then be reflected in IGF1. So lower growth hormone may not necessarily create lower IGF1. In fact, we see it's barely, in fact, even when someone's dieting here. So if you're not dieting, I could see that it's the same. But if you're someone, like, sorry, this guy whose IGF1 growth hormone was quadrupled, that would be something I would expect to increase IGF1. Yeah. So the IGF1 elevation may happen with elevated growth hormone, but it may not be reduced with reduced growth hormone. So that's something you consider too. So this, the nature of this relationship is solely dependent upon growth hormone, but it does reflect it to some extent. So this was their conclusion. I'll just read it. Daily administration for one week with MK67 novel, growth hormone secreticog acting as the RPA agatist, increases circulating IGF1s together with an apparent enhancement of GH pulse frequency. So that's what we saw over here. So more pulses, right? And there's something I didn't cover here, but this is, that's why I put this quote, but without detectable elevation of growth hormone secretion. It's just more pulses, but they're, they're, they're, they're the curve was not really, or the total growth hormone in this case they didn't do very incur, they did total growth hormone secretion over the day. There was no consistent effect on that parameter. This treatment does not induce any hypercortlesalism, so that's a good thing. That's one thing that's measured. Furthermore, is dissociate with enhancement of both stage 4 and REM sleep. So they had some sleep improvements there. Okay. Yeah. So that's then a lot of people report that too. Yeah. So I'm sorry to ensure that day now, I was just trying to put this together and to kind of keep it focused. Yeah. Yeah. So some quick takeaways then. And I covered all this, but I like to repeat myself itself for learning, I think. So in those with potential GH deficiency, the age of obese, for instance, or where IGF1 levels may decline, chloric deficit, MK67, increases growth hormones substantially with a single dose. We know this, shows this tacky fil axis, but still against this nullivation, and promotes a higher IGF1 versus placebo. So we've kind of got that that's basically the takeaways here. At least this one studying younger men healthy non-obescent mochors, et cetera. The less clearly defined dose response to say the least, one period, because this is the site we just looked at. Some individuals may get a greater GH release, total micrograms with a lower dose versus a higher dose, five versus 25 milligrams. Some individuals may have a lower GH release with a lower dose. So this is high variability there. So in young healthy men, this is just from this sort of from this one study and piecing some of things together that we've from the other studies hypothetically to minimize tacky fil axis and manage negative side effects, less is better. Might consider testing lower dose regiments in general. Theoretically, consider less frequent dosing as a strategy hypothetically reduced the tacky fil axis, the loss of drug sensitivity. So don't take it every day. And intermittent strategy, then could be combined with dietary variations, calorie toggling, carburtation, training versus adontraining day diets to coordinate the hyper phase. I'm using the technical terms to people know what these means, and if they dig in, I'm literature. The appetite stimulation versus the clerk intake. So for instance, if someone's dieting and higher IGF1 would be whoved them, right? Growth home was also not a bad thing. They might use the MK67 on those days when they can afford the increase in appetite because they're eating more on those days. It's part of their daily plan. So you're not taking on days when your calories are really low, you take it on the days when you're doing a refeed or you're eating more because that's the day when you've trained weak muscle groups, you want to make sure you hold them of that muscle as best you can, or what have you're sub-sucordinating these things. So this last, so that study was really interesting. The last thing, and this is what you were talking about, you've introduced this perfectly Scott for this. So thank you. So some other thoughts related to self-met trends. And this is just me sort of, you know, it's just spitballing, but if we have individual variability, which we have here, this is going to give us mixed results. Just anecdotally, you know, people are going to post like this stuff was, you know, a godsend for me. It was absolutely amazing. It worked great, helping you know, more fullness and ball of law. And this variation in anecdotes, depending on how the search engines and the algorithms are all sending you stuff, and depending on whose voices are the loudest, based on how much they talk, or how much important they are, or, you know, if they are an influencer in this area, that substances, or they just want to say, hey, you know, this is something you may have missed, and they want to make themselves known, right? Substance will trend then over time. They won't be consistent staples. They'll get used sometimes, everyone uses and then all said they sort of fade away. They're not consistently, because they're not consistently effective among across individuals. At those doses, I should have added here. That's the doses. This is one that's really, really interest. I'll put dose dependent here, if I can write this out. Just a dose exclamation mark. There we go. And then when dieting versus in an icicle or if eating a surplus, where IGF1 will already be higher. So that's the one thing about that's not in the study with younger men that we just covered, but if you're dieting down and this helps elgrade your IGF1, that would tend to be a good thing for holding on to fat for your mass. But if you're in a caloric surplus already, which is going to mean you have higher IGF1, and your otherwise healthy, you're not GH deficient in any way, shape or form, there might be even less of an effect on IGF1, because it's already elevated. You've got a ceiling effect. Having a little more GH may not boost your IGF1 anymore. I don't know. The data are not here. Not there that I'm aware of at least. Those are some thoughts as to why this particular supplement, especially in the context of this really, really fascinating study, and all these, barely read this stuff now, but all of these individual data that suggests we got responders, and we got maybe responders, and we got people that are non-responders. And some, I mean, most people aren't using five milligrams, and why? Because these are the studies, these are the first three studies I've covered, all 25 milligrams. That's the standard dose. And like I said, I haven't dug in super deep in the literature, but if I just, if you just had this study to look at, yeah, just this study, you would think, well, at least a five milligrams dose makes sense. And you know, it's going to work for some people, and not everyone would be going and testing their growth hormone. After the MK67, maybe a week, and they would use this as a template for determining whether it's going to work for you. And I was going to ask that. I was going to say, if somebody said, hey, I want to try, I want to find out if this really works for me, what would you suggest? Because back when we first started talking about MK67, we didn't have the availability to do private labs the way we do now. You know, it was much more of where, well, since widespread, yeah, for sure. Yeah, yeah. So if, if somebody were going to do that, what do you think would be a good way to find out if you were a good responder? Let me see if I can clear this here. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then, now we're back. All right. Yeah. So that's a difficult thing, because you're getting an elevation that happens over time. So you do, you know, I haven't even seen those form of Connecticut data to know what the peak looks like. We have it in beetles. When the other studies, the growth hormone goes up, right? There's also increase in pulse utilities, so more pulses, but you'd want to make some sort of a growth hormone measurement. But what do you go in three hours? Like people typically do if they're using GH, because that's when you see that peak, right? I don't even know exactly. IGF1 is something you could measure. Yeah, that's for sure. Give that, you know, week or two. It seems like it probably plateaued after maybe a couple weeks. You know, things will be changing depending on what your dietary strategy is. So IGF1 would be in one indicator, and you could also try growth hormone after you've taken the dose. And also you could see, I mean, you could do all these sort of things, you know, with yourself, and do multiple trials with people I've limited funds in time, but it'd be interesting to see if someone, you know, you're only going to be realistically able to get like one growth hormone, more hormone measurement. You can't go in and like keep going back to lab core like every hour. Yeah, but because you're not going, there won't get you one on time anyway. You'll wait one time and the other time they'll get you right in. But let's say you go to the three hour mark that would be just, you know, that would make sense. This half life of four to seven hours, like I said, I haven't found that data. That's that's an elimination half life. So, you know, you might, you might expect if you go in it maybe two hours, something like that, but I don't, I don't know what the curve would. I haven't seen it. I love it. You kind of, so there's a little bit of guessing in there, but maybe get maybe go in and get some, you know, baseline, right? Get some control, baseline, your IGF and GHC. We're that's at normally, right? And probably then keep that diet consistent. You know what I mean? Whatever diet you're doing because diet is going to influence your IGF levels at least, right? And you're good. And then, you know, maybe a week later, a week later, get your IGF levels tested again and like you said, who knows what the growth exactly, but maybe it is two hours, three hours after you're dosing. You know, I would think that, you know, at least you might get an idea that way. I'd be really curious too. If anybody does do that, you know, if anybody is like, hey, you know, I'm a real science nerd and I'm a bodybuilding nerd. I want to do this. Let us know because wouldn't it be cool to have our listeners if they embarked upon an adventure like that to share with us what they came up with? Yeah. And getting the low dose and high dose measurements too. So I don't like, something people could do if they're really in tune is just try the low dose. Yeah, see what happens with the low dose, you know, and see what you get growth home one wise or look at, you know, you could do, from that one individual, seem like he got a fourfold increase with the low dose, five, was that five milligrams? Yeah, five milligrams. One fifth of the normal dose, right? I don't know, that might allow you to avoid the hunger you wouldn't even feel it, per se, it's people. But I mean, who knows, maybe you'll start to feel it in terms of like carpal tunnel syndrome and the typical, you know, jades. But that, I would, if you're that individual and you get that and some people don't get that, right? But you would, right? I would hopefully see that reflected in your GH blood work two hours, three hours afterwards. And you could test to see, you know, two hours afterwards, a week later, see if you don't have any tacky flexus. So, if you could test initial response, get a baseline, initial response to a five or 25 milligrams dose, you know, do you're best with that, right? Yeah. And then go way to week and see how much tacky flex you have in both of those situations. So that would be five measurements, some growth hormone, IGF1 to see, keeping diet and everything else pretty much the same. It's somebody who was really invested in trying to figure this stuff out. Yeah, it's not too much, you know, you really could do that. Yeah, especially with the pricing as labs are cheaper than ever nowadays too. So, yeah, yeah, well, we're getting sicker and sicker. Yeah, so yeah, demands going up so they can reduce the prices. But well, I think that's other topic, but the insurance is charging more and more than they're charging insurance more than ever. But our labs that we get through, like I have no affiliation with Merrick, but Merrick for instance is super competitive on their price. You know, yeah, the one I use is really, it's not bad at all. So, I mean, I mean, gosh, I don't know, MK is not that expensive, right? Yeah, if you, if you were someone to figure out that five milligrams works better, the lab, it would pay for the lab work, you know, over the course of the years because you're using hardly any like a year supply with last would cost you like nothing. Yeah, and if you're that guy who gets this massive G8 release and it's, and this is what we into it, he got that. Yeah, like that was like if you talk about equivalency, you know, that total microgram release, he was sort of on the low end to start with. So that may have been part of this is that he was relatively deficient for whatever reason. Yeah, that makes sense. But this could be a ticket for you. So yeah, so there's lots of things to look at, but I think that kind of gives us some insight as to why this kind of comes and goes and some people rave about it and some people think it's just on-gwashing, just causes water retention and makes you want to eat stuff. You shouldn't. Yeah, I used it. So when I had used it a number of times back, you know, way back in the day, I, you know, I hoped that there was a G8 response, but I did know that I would get the appetite and I used it in off season to help, you know, provide more hunger and it did help with that. And I did notice that my sleep did improve. So it was cool to see that you noted that it was noted in one of the studies there that improved REM sleep and stage force sleep. Yeah, man, and I found it wasn't a continuous thing where I didn't always get good sleep from it every time. But it was especially like that first week and back then we would run it for three weeks on and then three weeks off or whatever and you would tend to gain a lot of water. So if I can, and here's what I thought, my mindset, if I can gain better appetite to help me be able to continue eating an extremely high calorie diet, if I can get better sleep and that helps me with better recovery and I'm also, you know, holding some additional fluid, weight moves weight in the gym, you know, I can get some some better strength than even if the GH isn't, you know, doing everything I'd want it to. I am getting some level of benefits there. That was kind of what I told myself and hopefully GH was up, you know, but I never did any personal testing and you know, I will note one thing and I can't say because I wasn't in a controlled situation. I don't even remember where I was now. But and I had heard this from a couple other people too of mild elevations and liver numbers and ASTLT. So there was that as well to consider, you know. Yeah. And the lower dose would probably presumably help with that. Yeah, the point. Yeah. So anyway, so there's some info for people on that and like I said, I can send all those references to people who want, they're all noted in that you can probably stop and zoom in if you want to look and find the reference. It should be easy to find. Let me ask you one more thing Scott. So if with, with consult, I'm going to pitch Scott here, guys. That's what you know. This is my sales pitch for you. If I were a follower of the podcast and I was like, you know what? Let's say we didn't just do this. If I was like, you know what, I really want to know about MK677. I could hire you for a consult and you could basically share this type of stuff. We could go over a lot of different things. It wouldn't have to just mean MK. Maybe we were talking about what are some thoughts on, you know, I need to figure out how to do a water manipulation. I'm coaching myself. I've got your book, but I would love to do a consult with you on that. Or I'm going into my off season and I'm doing four to two training or I'm familiar with four to two and I would love help with setting up a plan that would work for me. Those are all like consultation topics that you could literally hire Scott to do, right? I try as much as I can and this happens a lot, but it's just the right thing to do. I let people know about the other resources about the beer and bodybuilding coach book, the four to two training books. I have a free, the discussion board is free for four to two training. This just happened this week, happened a couple times a week. People can ask their questions there for free and I'll answer them because they bought the book and they supported me already and if they'd be the buy the beer and bodybuilding coach book, they buy that for a hundred bucks or whatever and that's going to be cheaper than a consultation and they get much more bang for their buck but then they come back to me and say, okay Scott, I've been doing this for the four to two training. I'm not sure how to do this. I've read the board. I can't find it. Now they have awesome questions because they've already learned they've kind of got to as far as they can go during four or learning things and now they need some help with finer and then I'm like yeah, now let's go for now we can dig in on the finer details. But I have people too, I have several clients who just want to know the science side of stuff. So we go into like go to the thickest and I put I put together powerpoint presentations for clients in this sort of way and we go through them on zoom and like literally, I mean some of those I will probably refine and give as a seminar at some point down the road because I've gone into pretty significant depth in many cases for clients. I know that will benefit me in the future but so like this sort of thing like now if someone ever asked me about, I'd say check out the podcast first. It's free. This is a perfect example and now they're like okay Scott, so if they're really science, he's like well you know I want to find out more about like the gray and receptor agonism and why that causes that and the other and what can we do and in terms of prevent the tacky flexus set or set or set or then we can go into that from very sciencey perspective or maybe they listen to them like I don't like follow all this stuff like what do you think or you know this is what I'm hypothetically planning on doing but you know my hypothetical lab lab subject would do what do you think about this regimen and how should I test my blood or what that sort of stuff and I can answer those things theoretically I'll answer any question I possibly can you know and not make a bullshit. I'll let you know if I can if I can help. I don't ever tell people what substances to take. I say this is what I know. I'm pathetic with all the blah but so like this would be a topic like if someone let's say the week from now or a year from now someone comes to me and says hey that's one of their questions they've outlined and I said I'd say check out this podcast first and then I may have shot myself in the foot like they don't they're like okay well my questions are answered that was awesome I don't get anything from it right but if they do come to me then I know we're gonna have a high level discussion that they're gonna find really valuable and most of these clients are also coaches so that makes them better. And that's my goal is to make people better or help people figure out how to make themselves better so to speak I'm not like magical like who poof you're better. Yeah I have worse but I'm there that you know pay it forward and to help people out so yeah this is yeah this is the kind of stuff I'll do in consultations with people and even if you guys don't have a question if you don't have a consultation idea for Scott and you just wanted to support him you can buy the fortitude training book for like 20 bucks. Holy books. So I mean literally it's pretty cheap plus you get the book then you get something from that and you're definitely helping to support Scott that way. I mentioned be your own body building coach it's definitely a wealth of information and as you mentioned you know a great way to take to get ahead start in coaching yourself if you want to figure things out and I'll have links to that below and of course the channel don't forget about Patreon guys we have the trade-in-reviewer Patreon and I know that we had another question that was related on Patreon that we'll get to I've get to that in the future it would be ashamed to step on that topic and you know sure to try to cram it in at the end here about solid foods versus protein versus supplemental powders but of course to true nutrition.com use our code think over there great supplements supplement source.ca they have great frickin prices got you can get a pre-workout on clothes out for like 10 to 15 dollars like good stuff like all max but they changed the label and so they're trained and dumped the old stuff you know great deals on that stuff and leave us questions for the next show guys thank you Scott this was really cool man and it pushed my knowledge for it an MK which is kind of novel I can't run the last time I've actually used it and someone's playing you know what I mean but hey maybe I'll consider it now you know what I mean who knows well thank you because you're the one who said hey people keep on asking about this can we talk about this again and that other podcasts is only audio so I think there were images for that one too so thanks for giving me a cool topic I had a good time kind of digging for the last few hours man this is my frickin pleasure and I hope that everybody at home enjoyed this too if you're watching this far in and you haven't hit the like button then please do for you know muscle minds is the most education the all our shows are educational this is the deepest level of education on all of our programs and but for that reason it doesn't get the mass hits is like how to run trend you know what I mean so for that reason guys we need your frickin help at home if you enjoy muscle minds then please help us out by leaving us a comment hitting the like button and share this stuff you know share this stuff with people who who need to hear everybody know somebody who's asking about MK when they ask about MK send them this podcast please should I take it or not yes or no tell me the answer oh thought sign you're right here they are here the thoughts yeah guys for another episode of muscle minds thank you for tuning in thank you for being with us we will see you soon and Scott thank you as always absolutely my pleasure audio's

Some of it is a little bit gruff. And let's just be real, right? I didn't feel like there was enough femininity in the division for me to just jump right into it. Back when I was making the decision to switch from figure, you know what I mean, into potentially bodybuilding. But that's why I waited. I was like, you know what? I'm not really interested in doing it because I really don't see where in our total journey. If I had to lose my femininity, if I didn't have to lose some of those, like extra girly qualities about me, to get our stage and compete, I wasn't gonna do it. What? What? Welcome to If Just Body Building 148. I'm Scott McNally. I'm here with Dusty Handsha, Ron's Not With Us, but we have IFB Pro Miss Olympia, Dreia Shaw. Dusty, what do we do? We like, share, subscribe, and... We comment, and we're hearing about all of that. Yes, all of that. And this episode of It's Just Body Building. When the temperature rises, the temperature drops down to<|ja|> the 60 degrees. All right, so, the next episode is ready for just our training session. Moving to nextinal Chapter 11. soon. So just you know, enjoying the last few cheat meals and getting down to business. Oh yeah. So last year you did a you did wings of strength before the Olympia. Are you going to do that again? Absolutely. Absolutely. I would be crazy not to right get a new car, get another 50k in a bank. Dude, do you still have? I mean, and again, it's a great show. Do you still have both of the cars you've already won from the past years or have you gotten rid of one of them yet? I had to get rid of one. So that's all the Camaro. I miss it, but I do. I'm enjoying the Corvette. I took it out today. Topped it up at just over 120. Having a good time. We don't have a beautiful thing. We don't even have streets in Detroit that we're allowed to drive 120, but you know, that's well, another story. That's the way to do it. Oh, yes, and it's only illegal if you get caught. That is the way of the law right there. Oh, that's awesome. How many weeks out are you then from the wings of strength? I am 19 weeks out now. And what's a typical prep for you as far as the length of time? Usually 12 weeks, I always add on an extra two. My coach prefers 12, but for my own pieces of mine, I like to do 14. But I have a guest posing coming up in Savannah, Georgia in September for our beloved Linda Mary. I'm her Savannah pro. So I'll be guest posing there. So I'm gonna get started here. Probably in at the end of July. So just before the Tampa pro, I'll be cracking into my prep. Only because, again, I've got the guest posing coming up anyway. So we put together a separate kind of diet. So it's like my pre-pripped, put together a separate diet and training program for that just so that, you know, and I actually like it that way because then I can kind of ease into prep a little bit. I'd have to hurry up and, you know, chop down the fish only and be miserable. What's a typical prep? I mean, this is, and I hate to use the words typical prep because we all know they're different, but are you, do you tend to need a ton of cardio or are you, I mean, how's it go for as far as food cardio that kind of thing? Now for the last two prepped, yeah, I've needed like a lot of cardio, um, an hour and hour a day usually gets it done. But this time we're, I mean, I held on to a lot of my size, um, and the, I mean, my coach knows that if I don't have to do an hour cardio, I really don't want to. So we're going to try to keep it at 30 minutes. And we're going to see if we can do just keep the intensity high, you know, the, the animal training is where it's said. It's just when I'm living the diet changes and I get, you know, chapped into like the fish. It's sometimes the energy isn't there to do, you know, like the hit. So sometimes it has to be steady state. So we're going to, we're going to do some trial runs with the cardio before right now. The plan is stick to 30 minutes, give it all you got for some hit training, um, preferably like a one to one and then call it a day, which I'm excited about that because like an hour man, whoo, it's a long time, long time, world, long time. Well, I want to do, you know, but yeah, um, like some other things that good. Oh, some other things that come along with like my typical prep, um, um, we start back and off of some of the weight, like once my ground beef gets cut back, um, we start decreasing some of the weight or something that load and we go into like just high volume, um, and then we add in a third leg day for me, um, isolation only, um, where it's just leg extensions, um, and leg curls of different varieties. So I mean, that usually gets my quiet, it's pretty, pretty good and, um, hamstrings is a focus disc prep. So this is definitely going to be, um, something that we decided that, you know, we could bring those hamstrings in just a little bit sharper. Um, so he wants me doing more dead lifts, um, he, and I'm not, I usually don't do dead lifts. So this is going to be something new that we kind of explore, um, in lots of easy to leg curls, standing leg curls and prone curls, um, isolate them, so that we can make sure to do that shine. Oh, yeah. That's, that's wild that, uh, two imagined three leg days a week for me is I can't walk with two. So how does three work? You move slow, man. It's just move slow. And you rely a lot on those BCAAs and body works. So like, when I get to that point and prep, um, I'm usually getting bodywork done like just about every leg day. So three times a week, because again, that recovery, it has to be air. I mean, can you imagine touching? But we're talking like the full gamut of like bodywork. So like my guy, he does cupping. He does scraping, um, he does, um, these, um, it's cupping scraping. He uses this light, it's infrared light that he uses. Oh yeah. Yeah. And then yeah, just traditional massage and then he starts stretching me. So it's a, it's a three hour long session every time I meet him. So he gets down and they're really good. Really good. And I'm not sleeping. I'm not sleeping on the table. No, no, no, it's not that kind of he's digging. He's digging, man. But you know what, every time he gets down with me, we can see um, much more clarity in the muscle. So that like that's going to be exciting to to see because my judges feedback on after that last Olympia was just, uh, no more size. Okay. Just focus on the details. So I actually feel a little bit like relieved that, you know, because with this detail work, I mean, that's the easy stuff. It's making sure you add the mass. It's, if that's what's needed that I felt like there was more pressure for me there. We put on like if I recall it was around like 10 pounds from last year compared to the year before, right? That's yeah. That's still, got me on treatment. That's a lot of muscle. You know what I mean? Because like comparatively, you were, what, 170-ish something like that? Um, I stepped, um, before we left for the Olympia in 2020, I, um, I left and, and weighed myself depleted at 169. So when I weighed myself for last year's Olympia, depleted, I was 170-ish. Yeah. So 10 pounds. Yeah. That's a lot. You know what I mean? That's like comparatively, I don't know what the math is, but for like say a 260-pound body builder, that's like jumping into 280. You know what I mean? That's like a, that's a huge amount of progress to make the whole year. I mean, more water was required. I kind of found that out during the prep. It was like, you know what? When you add that mass on, you know, I had to, I was up to like 2.5 gallons of water a day. Sometimes 3, just to, you know, stay hydrated and well, well, hydrated, you know, with the cardio and like that extra muscle. Because I, and I was eating a lot of ground beef. That was like, so that's where this year, you know, there won't be as much ground beef since I don't have to grow. But I was eating ground beef at like every meal, meal one, ground beef, meal two, ground beef, meal three, ground beef, I mean, I was beefing it up, man. And it's so, literally, literally. That's what, now, do you guys, how do you approach your offseason then? Are you, because you stay tight now, because you don't push the size, but did you get heavier in the past and you're offseason or how that work? Oh, yeah, I mean, I usually like balloon up right after the show. I mean, you know, it's not something that I like to, you know, voice openly, but usually after the show within about maybe a good 10 days, I skyrocket back up to 200. Easy. Okay. Easy, I'm eating. So, you know, even though I don't take days off from training, I'm still training. I'm not doing as much cardio, but, you know, that's where we figure, you know, what, maybe we'll kind of keep the diet a little rain down a little bit more this prep. So I'm actually doing a reverse. I've never done a reverse before up until now. We're trying to make sure that, you know, I didn't have that balloon up. So I actually got there, but then we brought it back down really quick. So I had some steak house goodies, lots of lamb chops and it looked okay. We got to switch gears. Yeah, then you got to chill out now. No more apple five, no more lamb chops. And so, yeah, so far it's been working pretty good. I've been holding pretty steady at about 180 to about 185. Nice. And so far, again, that's the plan. And I still get one serving of ground beef per day if I want it. I don't have to have it, but if I want it, I can have it. So as you can imagine, I have it when I have a craving for it, but other than that, just leaner forms of protein and it seems like again, it's working pretty good. Because like my last guest posing, I was pretty happy with shape and overall, you know, definition. You still work with John, right? Oh, yeah. Yeah, I want to kind of paint the picture for Dusty. What, you know, what to trade body building is like, you know, John Simmons is somebody we all know. He was a great body builder in his day. And do you ever get a chance to get down still to powerhouse and to trade? It is essential. It's essential. Every single prep, I have to go down there and train at least once every two weeks. And then the closer I get, the goal is once a week. Because the equipment down there, there's just, there's no substitute. I've been to so many gems. As far as like Saginaw, I mean, there's no place like Powerhouse and the sheer amount of history that is, you know, out of that place. So yeah, I mean, that there's just something about that place when you walk in. We got to bring you here, Dusty, man, when you walk in, you know, like this is, this is the place where if you really want to be great, you got nothing but opportunity here and they've got plenty of equipment to get it done. So yeah, and then, you know, there's Linda, Linda Solinda, Murray and John Simmons used to train together as training partners, not too long before she won her first Miss Olympia. And that's kind of been like a huge call in car for us here in Michigan. It's like, okay, we've got one gem and two Miss Olympias and you got lots of talents. I run love. I love the world. Yeah, Ron still there. Ron love his training people there. Like every day and he still tells me to this day that he's going to make his comeback. Like he's not done. You know what I mean? In his head, he's like still going to compete and that good that dude had so much muscle on him in his day. Oh, yeah. And that's where we too. We so run a little backstory on Ron. Ron got shot as a Detroit police officer and he was not able to work legs. He got, I believe he got shot in the back. He wasn't able to work legs the way he wanted to with your, you know, your compound movements. So, you know, no squatting, no dead lifting, but he found that doing the leg extension was something that he could use to still get ready for competing. And he said that's when he just somehow found out that that's when his quads shaped up the most. Like that's when he could see so much striation and definition in his quads. And John adopted that. Ben John said, you know what? I know one way we can definitely bring those quads there. Because when I first started bodybuilding that was an area that, you know, we needed to work on with me because I just got really thick dense muscle in those legs. And you know, the squatting as the size for me, but the leg extensions and I mean, this man had me doing leg extensions for one hour. Holy shit. Back and forth. One hour acetylacro and leg extensions were one hour straight. I know joke. I'm in worse. I'm like, you know what I learned from John that was such a valuable tool to me. I remember, and this is before I was training at powerhouse Detroit, this was over at Farmington Hills back when that was like the World Headquarters. And I remember I was dumbbell pressing like the 90s and I think I got 10 reps on it. And I was talking to John. I was getting ready to do my workout and I was like, yeah man, so I got the 90s for you know, 10 reps. So I'm going to do the 95s today. You know, this is a decade plus ago. And he was, he was like, hey, he's got listen man. He was like, why don't you take those 90s and learn to get them for 20 reps. He was like, you don't need to keep climbing in that way. You know, why don't you take those 90s and learn how to get them for 20? If you could do that, I guarantee you your muscle is going to get bigger. So his philosophy of training, I think is a little bit different than what I had known at that time. I just was thinking like you got to go however you got to go heavier. And of course, I learned to get those 90s for 20 reps and guess what, I then I got stronger in everything. You know what I mean? He's just, he's an intense guide. I would say John uses a good deal of volume in his training too, doesn't he? Yeah, yeah. And he's old school, right? I mean, that's the thing when I think about bodybuilder, you know, the old school of stuff works. It works. So I mean, some of this, some of this new age stuff where, you know, they got suspension training and you jumping off boxes and like, no, no. Just get down the business, just lift the weights with good form, slowly incrementally increase, but keep them reps high. I mean, keep the muscles working. That's what, that's how you bodybuild. You keep the muscles working. Not this is no time to chill. You keep working. What's your philosophy? What's your philosophy, then? With you and your clients, is it? I mean, how's your volume, for example, on a on a workout on a given day and what's rep range of speed, what's your workout look like? Slow and controlled. Slow and controlled is usually the way to go for me. And I'm a huge fan of drop sets, so it's John. Only because again, our, our goal is always to keep the muscles working. So even with heavier loads, it needs to be controlled. I don't care whether it's, you know, bench press, Smith, whatever. Like, I want to see you control in it, because then I know you're actually working and you're not using momentum. You're not, you know, rely on anything else to get you through it. But aside from that, like my rep range is, I try to make sure I keep the rep range as high. Even if, you know, the weight is, you know, moderate to moderate, heavy, I still like, like, John said, like, if you can get 20 reps, like, for those 90s, that's what we aim for. So again, I want as many reps as you can give me. Like, I want all the reps you can give me. Like, until you feel like you can't rep any more, I want two more pass that. Right. Yeah. That's, that's another one of our great female guests actually, Gina Davis said that back in the hurt. Her mentality is death minus one was a perfect set. I'm like, I can understand that. Death minus one. She says that's just wrong in my life. Legs, yeah, legs can definitely like be really, they can be pushed hard. I mean, we walk around on the legs all day. So this is where I try to tell my clients like, when it comes to legs, I'm absolutely going to push you because you walk on a mall day. So there's no, there, there's not going to be any change in them unless we like force them to change. And, you know, I got a whole lot of that philosophy too from John, I was doing these dumbbell squats. John loves dumbbell squats. So some people call him goblet squats, Clea squats, whatever. I use one dumbbell and a squat. You're right. And he's like, I get up from the set and I'm thinking I'm doing something. I'm like 50 reps. You know, doing something. I come on, coach give me some kudos. And he's like, how about 75? And I was like, whoo, damn I was happy back. But yeah, I mean, his goal is, yeah, I want you to give me everything empty the gas tank. And I carry that same philosophy, empty the guy like some of my clients, I say, yeah, we're going to do 50 reps to set. And they look at me like, what? Yeah, I'm not playing. Like we're getting ready to do 50 reps to set. Like you're not getting up until you give me 50. And yeah, more recently, now, I don't know if you guys are familiar with this training philosophy. However, I've been implementing it and I really, really like it. So let's say you set up on the leg rest. And it's a moderate heavy. I did eight plates each side. So you do one rep and then you rack it. Two reps and then you rack it. You give yourself no more than one minute rest. Three reps and then you rack it all the way up to 25. What? Those were that B 25 or 20, or 20 all added together. Yeah, that's that's man. I was so for about eight days. It's like wow. Okay. This is this is good news because yeah, John still doesn't want me squatting because we don't want my legs to get any bigger. And again, I have that, it can happen very easily. Like naturally, I've always been like it's just a thicker like my because my dad was big. Like if my dad was still alive, he would be the equivalent in my mind of like Ronnie Coleman. He was big. He was just big. He would eat jeans alive. He would eat shirts alive. Just big. Oh yeah. But that rep, those reps there. And you're having done the math. I just don't want to. Don't do that. Yeah, no, no, no, no, no. Something you don't want to know. Yeah, yeah. And you know, normally like that, that onset of muscle-sortness, normally doesn't come on until like, you know, 48 hours later, I didn't even get good into bed that night. Like I got out of the bed to go to bed. I was like, ooh, I better go get drinks and more BCA. So like this one's one for the books. So yeah, I just started implementing that. And I can I can already see like this is going to be this is going to be good. Really good. So I would implore you to test it out. I want to do just a sound terrible. Yeah. Absolutely terrible. I love the idea. Oh, no. So I want to rewind you drastically now because obviously a lot of people know that you're you're winning Olympias, but what brought you into body with them? I mean, did you play other sports? I mean, how did you get here? Well, some people don't consider the sport, but I started in cheerleading and gymnastics. So that was just like my easy segue into bodybuilding. And it was like, you know, when I got done with the sport, what do I do now? Right? Because there is nobody structure in practice for me. There is no gains for me to go and cheer it. So then I had to like deal with, all right? If I'm like adding more weight on because I was in college by this point, what am I going to do to make sure I stay in good shape? And you know, people in the gym, I had been around the gym a while. My mom was like training people and she had like this group of people she was training, but then like as a teenager, I wasn't like, I would go, I would kick around a little bit, but I'm like, I still got you know, other stuff that I can do. I had all kinds of different things at school and activities, but yeah, once I got in the college and after the freshman 20, it wasn't even like the freshman 15. It was like, yeah, I was like, you girl need to lose some weight. Like this is not too. I didn't like it. Right? I like it. It was like, okay, I got to do some. And people around the gym were like, you know, how do you feel about doing marathon? So I'm like, now I just not last to be, you know, I got too much muscle and like running for me, like that's that's like torture. Like, no, I don't want to be running like that. Would these big o-coats? Right. They'd be, no, then it's like, okay, well, you could always compete or you could power lift and I'm like, okay, I'm over the equal thing because I like dipped into like you lift and really, really, really heavy in the beginning, like 18, 19, but I was like, no, I want to look good. I show me where I can get down and I look good and the Robert Kennedy, you got him going all of a school now. Robert Kennedy, I got to do magazine. Yeah. And I was like, and I emailed him. It was so cool. I mean, he was the most humble guy. So I just emailed him. I'm like, hey, you know what? I subscribe to your magazine. I love, you know, the content. How are you getting the girls in the content? And he's like, you know what, we're at the shows. He was like, you know, we look for, you know, good talent at the shows. And you know, if we like your look, we'll approach you and, you know, we'll see what kind of opportunities we can kind of make happen for you from there. And I'll never forget it. I knew then. I was like, all right, I got to do a show because that's the only thing is going to force me to get in my best shape because like, I knew me. If if if if if it's any other sport, I'm going to be eaten and I'm gonna eat whatever I want. But if I know I got to get into that suit, does this be it? I'm going to stick to the diet and I'm going to do it right. So that's how it kicked off for me. I just wanted to look good and feel good about, you know, what I saw, reflecting back in the mirror. And the rest is like history figure figure was like my jumping board right into it. I got ready for that show in one month and place like, yeah, one month crazy. And how did that have a transition go from from figure to bodybuilding was out years what would happen there? So figure now when I competed in figure, where you can 2008. So there was just figure fitness and bodybuilding and placing third at that show. So Scott, you can appreciate this. They had this show called the Michigan Natural Edge, the referee theater. Oh, the referee is, what a few months later. Yeah, I mean, it just got a lot of history. Really rugged old place, but good stage. And the second show for figure I came in fourth. So that was like, you know, it became clear that even like at my leanest because I was really starving. I was eating like egg whites for breakfast, egg whites for dinner, two ounces of tuna, one cup of lettuce, I was starving. And I was still, I still got on stage at 140 pounds. And my claws were just like, yeah, I was doing cardio three times a day, like four and hour, every single day up until showday. And I still got on stage at 140. So the first time I had to, you know, accept that, I needed to go somewhere else. It was rough mentally for me because I knew I gave my best effort to get ready for that second show because I did so well at the first show. So I'm like, you know, I got some potential here. And it was like, you know, dang, like that sucks. Like, yeah, I still didn't quite make it. But I mean, I play. So I play fourth. Right. So I still play. But like, I wanted to win. I want to do it. If I'm going through all of this, I want to do all of you. So I took a eight year break. I took a eight year break just to just to train. Yeah, I know. Like, and I tell people like that and like, y'all think I just got here, I took eight years off just to train and you know, live life like that. I got a job, right? Because this sport is not cheap, right? You got to pay the play. Yeah. So it was like, okay, if I'm going to get, you know, into, you know, more tanning and hotels and travel, I'm like, okay, I got to make sure I got a good job. So I finished school, got a good job. And then I approached John in 2017. Because by then, I had gotten my head straight. Like, John has always been around, like, I've been no one Johnson's. I started competing. But like, my head wasn't in the game enough. But I knew what I got that job. I was like, all right, John, I'm in a good spot now. And I think I got a good shot at going pro because, you know, continuing over those eight years, my body started to change. I'm bench pressing, barbell, dumbbell. Like, I started getting strong. Like, I could see, like, my body was just, you know, the shoulder started to round out. I'm like, all right, like, I, I grew a lot. And I'm like, this women's physique thing looks promising. Like, what, what, do you think I have a good shot at this? And he's like, yeah, I think you do, you know, let's just see what we can do for next year, which was 2018. And what do as many shows as we can do and see what happens. And that's what we did. He took me down Ohio. I did a show down there, came in second, came back to Michigan, did John show, came in first, did Linda show, came in first, then when we were right to North Americans. And I came in third. So that's when I needed to kind of, yeah, that's right. I saw you there. You were there. We were right in the stay cows, man. I ate the stay cows out of lamb's. The manager came over. He's like, you know, you like the lamb's I was like, yes, I do you have anymore. He's John's like, stop. I'm in, you're a brick. But yeah, I mean, I came in super, super conditioned at that show. To me, that was my best amateur look to date, like, because I was super shredded. It was a good look. But it was like, and Sanito, she's like, you're really dense, even for women's physique. But I still wasn't like making, it wasn't clickin' in my head. So I softened up a little bit, dialed back on the cardio sum. And then I, we added in more carbs that time. And that's when I got my pro-card at Nationals. I came in second. So the girl who beat me, she beat me by one point. But you know, I knew then. I'm like, all right, now I got a shot at the only few. But I'm thinking, women's physique. Yeah. So I'm like, all right, well, let's see where it goes. Let me jump right into the closest show. Because again, like, I had the job. But I still want to try to plan, like logistically, how do I make this feasible for me? So now I'm not going broke. So I'm broke. Okay. And I'm like, we could drive it to run on that's easy. Sweet. Let's go. I mean, I'm like, I haven't been in the counter this since I had been like 12. Oh my, let's go. I got the bad. Let's go. Let's just write. And yeah, John, John's like, all right, let's do it. And so I got on stage, making my pro debut in Wimbledon's physique at the Toronto Pro. And I mean, it was a blast. But I still, I had that feeling like, like, like, the, like, at the figure show. Like, I'm looking at these girls and I'm like, man, they're like, they're like, they're lead. Like, not, like, massive. Like, I got the biggest quasi-back here in this lineup. Right. And I knew. And I'm like, okay, something's, something's off. And I'm like, all right. Well, I got to get up here. I'm here now. But I got on stage as the mass master and women's physique. And, you know, as soon as I got out stage, Linda and Alina are like, come over here. Like, you know, you definitely should not be up here with these girls. And Margie Margie's like, does somebody love you enough to tell you you should have been up there? I think you're just a great guy. All right, Margie, I hear you. I got it, man. I got it. So then I did the Toronto to round after Toronto, I did the Chicago Pro. But that transition from an even one that is judges, two of the judges approached me like, you know what, your look is great. You just in the wrong place. And it made it easier for me to transition from women's physique into bodybuilding. Because I had already kind of went through all those emotions at the figure, you know, transition. Because it was like, you know, that disappointment at that point, I'm like, you know what? I'm here now. I'm pro. Like, look, where have I got to go? I don't care. I'm going to get sent. Let's be let's get it going. Let's get going. Like whatever the next show is, that's what I want to do. And Chicago Pro was about not even 30 days later. And I got just got I got right into it and it came in second to Alicia Young by one point. And that's what I knew I'm like, all right, we working with something. But the women's, the women's bodybuilding for the misalipia had not been announced to come back by then. So rising Phoenix that wings of strength show was the only, you know, aspiration at that time that I had, like, okay, if this is our, our Olympia is this show right here, then I'm going to give it my best and see if it's not going to win it. Now, what year was it that you did the pro show as the women's physique and then the bodybuilding right afterwards? What year was that? Uh, 2019. And what do you weigh in at when you're doing the women's physique? Back then, I was cracking like one, like between 1.6.170. Damn, you were a bodybuilder. Yeah, but the score was, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I'm a quad. Yeah, I'm like, yeah, I'm like, yeah, I'm like, yeah, I'm like, yeah, I'm like, yeah, I'm like, 100 pound quad, Scott. Yeah, but they had, that's why, yeah, like, where are jeans? I don't even go there. I don't wear jeans at all. Like, no way. You kidding me, even the ones that stretch it like you should get the ones that stretch. Nope. I tear them up. I tear them up. Band. And I mean, that's just a little bit. Band. I like, let's, I bust them open. I destroy them. And coats. I destroy coats. I rip the seams open on both sides. The shoulders they just, they just, it's bad. It's bad. I'm trying, I'm trying to laugh and not be mad at you at the same time right now. Um, but you know, it's crazy. I've always been like, I said, I've always been on the bigger side. I mean, when I was in college, I remember, and I wasn't even like really serious about competing. I just want to hang out, drinking party. We went to this bar and this guy, I wore this caps leaf shirt and he's like, I see you, which are muscle shirt on and I'm like, I'm not even lifting, but then I'm like, okay, well, if they think I work out, my school will work out because, you know what? I mean, I've always just had that maybe it's from gymnastics, because you know, with the upper body, do so much with the flips and, you know, yeah, maybe that's kind of, you know, um, it played its role in addition to my genetics, it just be, just be big. Let me get something. And Dusty Hold on, you're in a really mad now. It really be mad now. I didn't even start training arms. I didn't even start training arms until my coach made me start training arms like at the end of 2020. Okay. I did not change arms at all. Oh, yeah, you're right. I'm going to my back lips and my chest lifts. We're heavy enough. I could just fly right in and compete. It was good. I'm pro without touching a bicep curl. Thank you for tuning into another podcast here at Think Big Body Building Media. If we've provided value to you today, then please consider contributing to our show. You can help support the show through Patreon. Every $5 helps to pay for the software and the hardware and everything else that goes into making a podcast. You can also contribute by using our code at True Nutrition. True Nutrition has been our title sponsor for several years now. I'm super grateful for them. And I've believed in true nutrition supplements long before they sponsored our programming. You could use our code. Thank for health supplements and performance supplements. Feel free to hit me up if you have any questions. And if you're in Canada, check out SupplementSource.ca. They have free shipping over $99. Huge discounts on overstock, short dated, and label change products. Plus, they have all your normal supplements too. Thank you guys for listening to the commercial. I hope you're having a great day and that your body building is going well. Let's get back to the show. Yeah. I had a question. Tell me, man. I got a question. So you made the decision to get into body building. That was before it was announced that it was going to be at the Olympia. That's a big choice to make. I feel like at this point, women's body building is making a comeback now. I feel like you're a really good face for that. I think there's a lot of stuff we could talk about relating to that. But just making that decision, I feel like that had to be a difficult one to make. Feeling like, hey, this is the right division for me. Although at that moment, I feel like women's physique would have been the more popular place to be. Yeah. I mean, because John asked me, he's like, are you sure? And I just told him, yeah, yeah, I mean, I want to go where I'm going to go work with my body, not against it. Because again, he could only die at me down so hard. Muscle is very hard to catablaize. I mean, I always tell my clients or people that just convers with catablaizing muscle is a no-no. In this game, yes, catablaizing muscle is a no-no. I don't care what the look is. Like, if you're catablaizing muscle, you need to stop. You need to stop. It's just not good because again, your bones are connected to the muscle and your muscle mass. It needs to be there. Because again, you're going to get older. And you want to make sure that you protect your structure, right? You have a slip and fall, you know, you want to be able to get up and walk away. Right. So, yeah, I mean, that's where I'm like, you know what, wherever I was able to be celebrated and still compete and have a better opportunity at winning. I wanted to go there. I mean, my heart was in limits physique because I did like the extra femininity of it. But that was the thing that I didn't really I wasn't really drawn to women's bodybuilding for initially because again, some of it is a little bit gruff. And you know, let's just be real, right? I didn't feel like there was enough femininity in the division for me to just jump right into it back when I was making the decision to switch from figure, you know what I mean, into potentially bodybuilding. But that's why I waited. I was like, you know what? I'm not, I'm not really interested in doing it because I really don't see where and I told you, and if I had to lose my femininity, if I have to lose some of those like extra girly qualities about me to get our stage and compete, I wasn't going to do it. And so it was almost like, I mean, but I loved Linda's error. I loved Linda Popas look, but there was just, again, there wasn't enough of a draw for me to really like say, yeah, I'm going to do women's bodybuilding back when I was doing figure. It just wasn't there for me. But again, I appreciated Linda's look. I absolutely love Linda's look because her femininity, and she's taller than me too, right? So I were already like, I'm shorter than her. I had a different structure. So this is where I was kind of apprehensive. Like, you know what? Like, and I put on muscle easy. I'm like, I don't want to be super super massive. I'm still the heaviest misses Olympia. I think to date they said they's like, you're the biggest miss Olympia we've ever had. No kidding. And I'm like, oh wow. I'm not shocked by I have let it like, okay. You know what? So I am because this is what's wild. As you were talking, I have a lot of clients that are classic shaped guys, but they love bodybuilding. And they're like, I didn't do classical. I'm like, no, you don't. Take that classic physique and get it bigger and be a body bit of like, what do you think saidric was? Yeah. He was a monster. That's a classic body. But I feel like that's you brought that into women's body. And it's like, and I'm going to be a little blunter than people would like, but it's like, why not bring the femininity back to the sport and be a muscular woman and say, oh, you can do both. You don't have to sacrifice because even for me, and I've loved all love was about it in my whole life. Like it blows my mind because your physique flows so well and it is a pretty package that when you're like, I was the heaviest. I'm like, oh, yeah, I wouldn't even cross my mind that you have the heaviest, even though you have masks, it just because it flows so well. It's pretty like, what's pretty. It can't be huge. What is? It's kind of like, uh, right, exactly. I remember in art school learning about sculpture and one of the things that a good sculpture would have is it could be made out of stone or it could be made out of bronze or whatever, but they would have the ability. Like a good artist could make it still look like light like a flower. You know what I mean? Like whatever it was, it didn't have to look like it weighed, you know, 500 pounds or whatever. You know, it's still, and that's that's I agree. And I think part of it too, like see, and I know both of us have seen you in person, you know, when I see you or, yeah, I don't think of like, oh my god, that lady's huge, you know, I mean, like just the way you're put together, it just it really works for you. I feel like you were, were you? Were you your leanest at this past Olympia? Because if I recall, like I remember seeing you know, I was like holy shit, she looked shredded this year, you looked so lean. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, we filled out. I mean, it was, I surprised myself. I still, I still kind of look back and I'm looking and I'm like, wow, because we always do these side by side. But yeah, I was tighter and I was leaner. And again, much more definition, especially my legs, especially my legs. And yeah, I mean, we could see where that added mass came into play. Like it was like, I called John the Scientist, man. It's like he knows what he's doing and it's on another level. But you know, having, having this position to really bring back that femininity, I think that makes me like, so happy. It makes me so happy that again. And I'm telling these girls, it's not that you don't have to, I mean, okay, maybe girly mannerisms isn't your thing, but like you can build your way into it. Like, where you can practice your way into it. There's a way that is elegant for you. Think of this like elegance. This is a beauty pageant with muscles. Yeah, right. That's it. It's a beauty pageant with muscles. I love that you're in the position you're in because this is a, this is a common, I just had this conversation in Dallas with the girl last weekend. She wanted to hire me. She had already, I don't know where she was before, but she had already crossed the line in my opinion in starting to, you know, with the effects of antibiotics. And I said, here's the problem. This is not personal, but I can't work with you because I can't have someone peg and say, dusty did that where a female became more and more masculine because my bread and butter are women who want to just get in good shape. Like, I don't want them to start thinking, oh, if I were with dusty, I get really really big and I start to look more masculine and I don't want to do that. You know, and that's a tricky thing. So I think to see a granted, you have obviously great muscle genetics, but you can show women, you can have a lot of muscle mass and still be feminine, still not lose the look, but also carry yourself with grace to guess is what I would say. Exactly. It's a good, it's a good thing. Unless sometimes it's more like, you know, I mean, when we talk about antibiotics, right, you don't need to be running all this hard stuff, right? And you don't need to be running stuff all year round. Like, okay, there needs to be some conversation about, okay, you need to come off everything for a set amount of time, clean up, get your blood worked down. So this is, again, this is where I think there just needs to be more open conversation with with the ladies. So this is where I try to open up, you know, my DMs to these ladies and I'm like, listen, if you've got questions, ask, if you aren't sure about something, ask, I mean, if I don't know, I mean, I'm surrounded by people who have been in the bodybuilding game for two decades, or more, right? Like, this, this is something that we can, we can help you navigate, but if there's, if you start noticing things about your body that are changing, that you know something's wrong or again, if you, if you've done some research on some of these things that maybe you're coach wants you to do, and you're not sure, you need to start talking. And again, this is where I didn't have that when I came through, right? I mean, I knew of Linda, but, you know, she moved out of Michigan by the time I started coming through, you know, with competing. And it's just a matter of some of these ladies need to ask more questions and have a safe place to go and talk about some of this stuff. So I'm hoping to be that for them. Because again, I had a lot of questions too. It was like, okay, what about this? What's this, versus this? Because I was totally ignorant. Totally ignorant. I was like, oh no, you know, don't take steroids. But it's like, there's so many different ones, you need to know, take one, for what? What is the goal? What are you trying to accomplish, right? Okay. And yes, there can be a very safe way to do that if you are open on us with your coach. And if you do enough research and stay on top of your blood work, that is, it's very simple. It's very simple. Like, and you know, that's where I get, I keep kind of pissed off where some of these people start saying, oh, well, so many bodybuilders have died because they're on antibiotics. That's not true. You want, you aren't the corner, like, you don't know. You don't have no idea. More often than not, there's something else at play that went sideways, whether it's a pre-existing condition, whether it's, yeah, they may have been too dry. Okay. There's so many different things. Maybe they didn't have enough water, right? And there's some things that, again, like, when you add more mass, I found that out last year. I needed to increase more water, right? So there's some, it could have been something small. We don't know. So for you to speculate, you just sound like an idiot, shut your mouth, imagine your own business. But I couldn't do that. But again, there's a way to be in this sport. If you decide to go the antibiotic route, then yes, there's, again, a lot of research to be done on your part. There's nobody should ever just jump into it and say, oh, yeah, I'm going to take it. Oh, I do see this. I know what's what, and ask questions. And again, I think somebody's people, they get so quick to want to develop the gains, right? But hey, what about when I took those eight years off? Yeah. You got to develop what you work in with naturally first sometimes, right? Let's see where you can push this body naturally before you start adding in antibiotics. If you got a good worth that ethic and a good training regiment naturally, then yes, antibiotics are going to help you achieve some things a lot faster. But you still need to have that mindset. You need to do the work. Because I mean, some of these young kids, they, I mean, the one guy approached me back in, oh, gosh, 2018, how is it that you're natural? And then you still look like this. How do you stay so hard? I'm like, I don't know what to tell you. I train, like, and I train hard. And I train a certain type of way. And he's like, well, I'm one all in stuff. And I, and I'm growing boobs. And I'm like, okay, what's up? There's a round with your training. So what's up? Like, okay, I'm like, I can help you. Like, I volunteered my assistance to help him. I said, pick a body part. Whatever body part you want. I'm not trying to throw off your program and I ask you for any money. You genuinely are approaching me because you want some help. Pick your body part. I would train you through a good workout and give you some point in his own way. I think you can do to help bring up that area. No kidding. I don't want to, I don't want to leave my toys. You know, I'm a crew hanging. And I'm like, okay, so let me get this clear. You take an artist gear. You spend all this money. And you hang out with this crew and you ain't getting no results. Why are you here? You have a chance to do that. The way you waste your time. You straight pissed off, like, yeah. You know, I would love to see though, from you, too, that I don't think that people realize how hard you train. Yeah. You know, and no, you're wrong. I understand there are genetics are number one, but you got to do some of those genetics. And I feel like that's an area where men, women, anyone who's on something. I mean, when I do a Q&A, if I were to open this up, we're going to do one in the next show. Most of the questions are drugs. And it's funny because I've been in the game long enough that like, you know, I couldn't, I couldn't give you much detail on it, because I don't care. I'm not interested. And it doesn't matter that much. I'm like, okay, if you're a guy, I'm like, okay, these are healthier options. You know, for sure, turn blast, these are longer ones. Other than that, if you ain't training right, it doesn't matter. I would love for people to see what a workout looks like with you, because I don't think most people realize that they don't train. They go to the gym, they work out. But training is another thing, you know, and when you're looking for pain like you were describing earlier, it's like, I found a new way to torture myself. I'm so excited. I don't think most people do that, but I would like them to see because that's the other reason that you're able to maintain as because you didn't look for the secret to bodybuilding in a syringe. Exactly. Exactly, or you know what I mean? And I thankful for those eight years because it helped me to really develop a certain mindset of being okay with being sore, and being okay with being uncomfortable. And then being okay with going back to training again when it's time to train that muscle group. And I'm still sore. I don't care. I'm going to train. It's time to train legs. Yes, my legs are still sore from the last time, but guess what? I got this go. I don't care. So, you know what? Like my workout partner. He asked me, uh, as well as I said, I did just yesterday. And he looks at me now. These are Marines that I'm dealing with, right? John is Marine. And my workout partner is Marine. And he's like, okay, it builds good character. And he turns around and walks up. Like, okay, what you're going to do? You just go stand up or sit down. Yeah. All right. All right. I look. I'm not soft. We bought to get down on it. I'm going to give you what I got. Yeah. Right. I love it. And that's it. You're going to be so having that. I think it's more mindset. It's totally mindset. And that's where I went. Yeah. When I tell somebody, yeah, we're going to do 50 reps. I'm watching them. Okay. What you're going to do? You're going to stand up. You're going to sit down. Don't waste my time. Because I fire clients. I do not go waste my time. Like, if you're going to be committed, I need to know that you value this time. Because I can go make money. The money is not the issue here. Are you going to be committed to like, okay, and if it's if it's a competitor, let's be clear. Like if it's a competitor, like, because competing comes with the whole different mindset. Right. We're not going to be wasted my time as a competitor, asking me, you know, can am I? Are you only going to make me eat chicken and broccoli? Maybe. Why do you care? Do you want to get on stage or not? And when? And be your best. Yeah. Like, and if you're asking me for cheap meals already and you just get started, it's time for you to walk. I'm not going there. I'm not going to be frustrated by it. So I would rather see you find somebody else. Yeah. Yeah. I would like to do that. I would like to work with you and, uh, and hector and uh, and or maybe go like and do a do a workout. That'd be awesome. That'd be awesome. I'm not going to do it. No, I'm going to job on one of your videos. I said, I said, I said to him. I was like, have to. When you mess with me, I just strange I want to leave. We just, we just, we just, we just, we just, we just, we just, we just, we just, we just, we just, after I went to a Nashville Scott, we did some videos. And I told Hector, I said, I want people them to feel the work at. Yeah. When they watch the video, it's the only thing I ask. And he's like, I got you. So that video came out and Dre, I've message me, she goes, who shot that video? That I'm like, mission accomplished. That's cool. Yes, mission accomplished. That's cool. Man, man. I need one of those. I Hector's like, look, I'm going to get you on as soon as I can. As soon as I can get you and I'm like, I'm ready. I'm ready. I want one of those. I made you bring you back to the gym. I'm looking at you and I'm like, yes, and let's go work out right now. All right. I propose now to all of our audience watching guys, if you want to see Dusty come out to Detroit, train with Dre a comment below. You know, Jim will make that happen to you. Okay, we take you straight to powerhouse, man. Straight to powerhouse. That's the only place I'm going to take you right to the real deal, or you can get down. I bet at that gym for over four years now, and I still haven't gotten on every piece of equipment in the gym. Ha. There's some handles there. I think some mirror binu used. Like, there's some old handles, you know, over in the over in like the cable bin. I'm pretty sure, like, I've grabbed some of those handles Dusty and I hook it up to do a lap and pull down. And I'm just thinking to myself, I have a real good feeling. Just by looking at this thing, I have a real good feeling some mirror used to this thing back when he trained here. There's so much history in that gym. And I go through Dre. You walk in that place. It just, there's a, like a level of seriousness that comes over you. You walk down the hallway. There's pictures of every pro down the sides and everybody that the dab is should have ever met, you know, from Ronnie to the old school guys to the new school guys. And then it just opens up into that big gym. And if it's summertime, it's going to be hot as hell in that place. It's hot. Pump the hot. It's grunge. It's grungey. It's dirty. I mean, dirty in a, in a good way. Yeah. Yeah. You go in a near to take care of business. This is not the health club. Like, you're ready to stand up or sit down up in here. Like, seriously, like, people, you know, you got guys that have just got out to joint working out in nearest. So like, they, you know, it's a different mentality. Like, okay, you better be ready. I'm better ready. Yeah. Get down. I love that though. That's, you know, I used to change the, it quads in Chicago. Yeah. And I had been there for about two months. And I had somebody who was, he's, he's on line. He goes, I love that gym. You ever try that, that piece of equipment, he pointed out he's like, it's down stairs. That's actually never been downstairs yet. And there's just so much. I've been there for a few months. I hadn't even been in, I, I walk in. I walk straight up the first flight of stairs. Yeah. I train there for two months and never went down the stairs. I was like, I guess I'll check out the downstairs tomorrow. Yeah. Yeah. Same thing. I was like, I'm fucking, in the funniest part was, I, I walked in that gym the first day. And, you know, I know what everyone knows quads. So I walked in. I was like, I need a day pass. And I'm talking to the guy. And I, you know, he's just asking me about, you know, training in this and that. He was, all right, you all said, and I was like, oh, I didn't pay. He's like, oh, you don't have to pay. I'm like, what? He's like, I said, no, it's business. It's all good. Like whatever he's like, no, because I want to see you train for a day. He's like, he's like, then we'll decide if you say it in the future. I'm like, I like this guy. He was great. He didn't know probably give it to me. Right? I think he had a mic. There we go. Yeah. That's cool. Man, we, we could call, hey, we got to get you out of comment. We got to rent a house. I have a feeling that one's as handled right there. Let me see. I want to make sure I grabbed a few. Oh, okay. This is one important one. I actually asked some friends that are that are into bodybuilding some questions as well. How do you think now that you're on your platform you are between just being you mute and all those things? How do you think or have you put thought into how to change the perception of female bodybuilding and more or less women with muscle? Like, is there a way you're trying to get that out besides just being you? Well, I'm trying to encourage more more ladies and I'm, I've decided to open up my posing to online ladies. But strictly women's physique and bodybuilding. Like, you know, I love figure out love all the other divisions too. But again, maybe this is my contribution on a different level where I can kind of give them more pointers on how to be more graceful and how to have better smoother transitions, right? And bring those feminine qualities to the forefront. Because there's nothing like somebody being able to teach you maybe how to go to that elegant place, right? So this is where I'm trying to be more boots on the ground. So to speak and help in that effort. But yeah, I mean, other than that, it's just a matter of having more conversation, having more conversation about, okay, you know, maybe instead of doing this, right, or maybe instead of having this look, right? So I'm, I mean, I've been telling girls, maybe go with longer hair. But your stage presence is everything, right? How you conduct yourself in the gym out of the gym? These maybe these are practices that if you're going to be elegant on stage, you need to be practicing in your private life too, right? Like, okay, and the more you practice in private, right? The easier it is when you do when it comes to being on stage. So yeah, just open it up more for more dialogue. I mean, that's the big thing. And maybe encouraging some of these ladies. I'm not against anybody's coaching, but if you got a male coach and you aren't feeling like, like, not just a coach, but a male posing coach. Because some male coaches like to do the posing and the training and all the things. That's cool, right? But if you feel like you're still not bringing a much more feminine charisma to the stage, maybe it may be worth looking at working with somebody else for posing, right? Because again, posing is, I think that's one reason why posing on stage for me is the way it is. I'm that way in my private life too, right? So I like getting dressed up. I like putting on heels and dresses. Yeah, but again, not every person is like that. So maybe again, having these conversations about, all right, let's hook you up with a good posing coach who's a woman who can start to teach you about certain things to do to make yourself look more feminine on stage. Because again, I think that, yes, I mean, somebody's gear protocol or their workout protocol can be one thing. Because yeah, there's a fine line. They can't go too far. Maybe, you know, and maybe we can't teach femininity to that look and it's still look better or prettier on stage. Right? But again, it's just doing what we can. I'm all about just doing what we can. So I want to try to reach it. Is many girls as possible? And I've been actively reaching out to certain women and women's physique. I have one that I reached out to just last week. And I'm watching, I'm like, this girl is dense. She's a, I'm not totally. If you're not placed in high on women's physique and it's just my personal opinion, I think you need to do bodybuilding. So what I'm just Olympia. So what if you, if you make it to the Olympic, we're going to be on the same stage. You still have a certain quality that I see as being something that would be great to add more value to our division. I'm going to tell you about it. I'm not insecure. You know, everybody should just be doing their best to get on stage, right? But again, I'm not insecure woman. If I see something in a woman and I'm like, you, you would be a great bodybuilder. He just in the wrong place. So if you're not winning, you need to think about what I'm telling you right now. So again, I have a more active approach when it comes to that part. Yeah, let's just talk. Let's talk. I like that because I think when I look at, it's the same as bodybuilders. Like when I meet someone that's not in the sport, they're very first impression. Because you know, you forget, I'm sure you forget what you look like because you're just you. You just walk around and your friends know you and they don't think anything of it. So when you meet someone or you walk into a restaurant or something, you see people's eyes like, oh shit, you know. But I've had people say after they talked to them for a bit, they forget you're a bodybuilder. Because you've, you've taken that away, you're just whatever you are. And I think that that's on the feminine side of what you're doing really well. Because obviously, I mean, when we first bet the Arnold, I knew who you were all those things. But within about, I don't know, a minute, I literally forgot you were a bodybuilder because you're just a woman. You just have an energy that's confident, but not like, I don't feel like you're, you know, pulling a lot spread while you're standing there either. You know what I'm saying? And I think that's the good. I'm not a woman. I'm a muscular just to show you that. There are women in men, but I think it's harder for women if you're walking around all opened up. It's like, that's already a strike in the femininity side, even if you're beautiful. It's like, you know, it's kind of the same as a guy. See, you know, I'll tell you like that, bro. Yeah. We ain't got to do that. Yeah. Yeah. It's like, yeah, embrace your muscle, but don't leave your feminine in and be high. You know what? I mean, embrace your muscle, but don't leave your feminine in and be high. But you're not, you know, obligated to just showcase the muscle. You still are women. Right. I love that. I love that. I think if that happens in the sport, it'll make a strong comeback because I feel like personally, that's getting lost in women's physique now, too. I'm watching that drift further and further and I'm like, no, no, no, what's happening? Where's it going? Like, I love it when it's started. And it's watching it slip, you know what I mean? Yeah. And that's where again, my, my target market, so to speak, is women's physique and women's bodybuilding. Again, we have some really good talent out there, but I think they just need a few more peace and cues to really, you know, help them to make that, that transition into expressing the femininity on stage. Yeah, agree. 100%. I love the year that you're doing that. And we could probably go for like five hours as at this rate, I haven't even touched like nine of my questions. So I don't want to steal too much of your time, but if we can, how can people reach out, contact you for those things? And then of course, anyone you want to mention before we give you your time back and bring you back with Ron here shortly. Yes, I buddy Ron, who who ditched me. I think too. That's what I think too. But yeah, I mean, I want to say, I'm a huge thank you to my coaches, Sid Gillen, John Simmons for, I mean, sticking by my side 100%, you know, obviously once I start print, I just spend a lot of time with them. I mean, you know, I see John on a daily basis and I see Sid me sometimes on a three times a week basis. So, you know, he was thank you to them, because I mean, without them, you know, I know for sure that, you know, I wouldn't have been able to accomplish so much in a short amount of time. As I'm super thankful. Huge shout out to Mutant Nation. I really love my mutant. Yes, I absolutely love it. I mean, being with Mutant, and it's only been six months now. I mean, I'm sold. I mean, every the whole culture with Mutant is not just supplements, right? This is, this is like, this is, I love Jim. Like Jim, has a certain quality about him that I mean, I'm just, I'm drawn to. So, I mean, huge shout out to Mutant Nation. And Scott, hey, homegrown, love me. I mean, I can't thank you enough for bringing me on again. This is just I always love to get bring, when Scott, when I heard Scott was coming on like, all right, love me. There is complete. I'm so glad to, I'm so glad we can share this. To a wings of strength. Yeah, I got to give a shout out to wings of strength, because again, without them bringing back the misalmpia, I wouldn't have a platform to be on. So, huge thank you to them. And I'm super excited to continue to represent our ladies and encourage them to, you know, let's bring this up to another level of entertainment for the fans and, you know, getting more people, like, so I don't want to say reverence, but for lack of a better word, the sport again, to really bring back the awe and the wonder and the majesty of it all, because again, it's beautiful. Bodybuilding is beautiful. I don't care what division it is, but it just so happens that, you know, women's bodybuilding is going to be something that, you know, I think the company and I will continue to focus on making it much more mainstream again, like it used to be. So, yeah. And they can reach me on Instagram. My Instagram handle is Ms. Pretty Muscle. That was so deliberate, right? Ms. Pretty Muscle, Ms. Andy. And or my website. So, my website is Ms. OlympiaAndreaShaw.com. Awesome. Well, thanks again so much for joining us and we're definitely going to have to take you up on that offer. Maybe at the beginning of your prep before it gets too rough or right before. So, we can get you on because I still have eight questions of my own and Ron was even here that we haven't touched. So, and I had like three or four myself. Okay. Let's do it. I'm ready. I'm ready. Awesome. And you know, if you're going to be at Tampa Pro, Dusty, we could get in a workout there. I'm just saying this. That's the only one I'm not going to have because I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm moving and then right after that, go on to the Dominican Republic for some fun. So, let's see what you're on. Not going to. Okay. Okay. I'll figure out something. We're going to build. There's a waste got. We're going to figure out. I say we bring him here. He's got a sea power house. It's like it's an event of its own. Yeah. Good enough. All right. So, next time, everyone. Beyond, guys. Yes. Thank you so much and remember everyone's got what are the, what are Ron's numbers? It's just bodybuilding.

wonder he's getting shredded like crazy and he's dropping weight so fast. Where we have to be careful is the evidence is quite strong that if you already have a metabolic dysfunction or you're overweight. Basically saying if you're dead, he's warning is you personally. This is what works for you. If you have an already been in a diet at stake. And at least now he's making some. It's okay. Basically what is the actual metabolic is what I have said in in defense of skip loading for a long time. What's that? The average diet of the average person when they eat process carbs they get fat because they're not insulin sensitive. They are not putting demands on the body that require the use of those carbohydrates as fuel. Yeah. We are. And because we are, that's why post workout serial is so beneficial. But if you're not training and you're just the average person and you eat serial once a day, a large bowl of serial, you're not going to get leaner and it's not going to help you recover from a workout and build muscles. So ultimately, he's not saying anything. He's he's right. Yeah. But he's not saying anything. There are no profundities there. Okay. He's explaining, I don't know that he's trying to be profound. That's not what I'm saying. Oh, yeah. This is just, I think he's explaining it. He's been said for a long time. To the mainstream audience of four millions of subscribers. You know? Yep. Actually get the beneficial part. What's up guys? And back with skip, we're going to do a little bit of a reaction here. This is just for fun. Somebody commented in the Facebook group, skip, saying like, there's this new sugar loading. Have you heard of this? It's like sugar, sugar loading or sugar diet? You hear anything about this? Okay. What we're going to find out. It's basically we're doing a reaction to a reaction to Mark Bell doing this sugar load. Okay. And I think this is actually better than us actually watching the Mark Bell video. Because this guy's giving us insight into Mark Bell and what he's doing versus just, you'll see it. I'm saying, I watched like the first two minutes. And then I thought, you know, skip is the creator of skip loading. Which, I mean, it's not just clean food, right? So I want to see how different is this. So that's not really not enough. Well, we'll see you, man. I mean, I don't think you do a little sugar, do you? It just depends on what it looks. I mean, it's like table sugar, can you? We'll see. We'll see. All right, you ready for this? Mm-hmm. All right. Sugar a day. This is my breakfast. We had some sour patch kids, starburst, jelly beans, eight ounces of apple juice, literal sugar, like sour patch kids from breakfast, has Mark Bell lost his mind. Like, what is going on? Now, if you were to look at him even a year ago, the guy is a very low-carb high-fat approach type of guy. And he's drop and followers like mad because he's doing this sugar fasting and the sugar diet. Another guy, Cole Robinson, who was kind of doing a snake diet before. The snake guy. He's been talking about doing this sugar diet. This sounds good. Cole Robinson. And it is a little crazy. But there's a couple really, really, really important caveats to know with what's going on here with Mark. And before anyone just jumps in and does, like, he's doing, or before anybody jumps in and completely discounts what he's doing, should probably understand that there is a logical reason and an actual, like, real scientific reason behind why he's doing, what he's doing. There is a messenger molecule in the body that's called FGF21. And that's what he's leveraging. And that's what the whole sugar fasting thing can leverage. But a couple quick things to note, you have to be in a deficit. Fat has to be tremendously low. And you have to be able to consume enough to keep on elevating and sort of revving up this messenger molecule FGF21. So we'll break it down a little bit more. In case people actually do want to do this, I want to make sure it's the right people doing it and people doing it right. And this isn't mean necessarily condoning it. I just know that this exists. And it's a real thing. And he's not just completely lost as mine and gone office rocker. Marks a Kuku guy. He's my buddy. He's one of my best friends. So I haven't heard, I haven't figured this out yet. Is he just, it sounds like he's doing it. Am I right? Skip, it sounds like it's just one day, like a one day load thing. It sounds like in the music. I mean, what do you guess here? He's doing low carbs otherwise. I'm sure he's going to tell us. Yeah. I mean, the fact that he's in a deficit and everything else. I mean, it sounds like he's loading to some degree. But I don't think that he's been clear yet. OK. I didn't know if it was just me missing it or something. All right. And he's totally low-co. But I respect his ability to experiment with different things. Especially when you see how shredded he's getting with us. It's actually working. So what's the reason behind it? There's something very important to note here. Mark has done a low carb high fat diet for an immense amount of time, which means that his cellular machinery is very primed to dietary fat coming in. So what that means is that he's been feeding himself so much dietary fat. His cells are used to that. The moment that he drops that dietary fat down very low, his body is going to still be looking for it. He's going to be looking for fat. So what's he going to do? It's going to pull from what fat source he does have. And it's going to allow him to get very lean. Now, you can do this a couple of different ways. You can do this by just dropping your fats down and dropping your carbs down and doing what's called protein-sparing modified fasting or rabbit starvation, where you keep your protein high, or you can drop your fat very, very low, put yourself into a deficit and actually rev up a different part of the metabolism that leverages this FGF21. So FGF21 is a messenger molecule. And what happens is when you consume pure sucrose, not starches, but pure sucrose, like literal sugar, it activates this molecule and it actually revs up the metabolism significantly. There are multiple studies that demonstrate that when FGF21 is elevated, it ramps up energy expenditure. So it's kind of like, you ever see those people that just have them. Yeah, I'm kind of getting DNP fruit diet vibes here. I think there's probably a little bit of a connection. The guy's born the hell out of me, they know if he says messenger one more time. Or if he says leveraging one more time. I mean, basically what I see so far, and I'm not saying in any way that this is, you know, apricot ripping off the concept of skip look. When skip loading started, the traditional skip load was high carb, processed carbs because they're so fast and low fat. And the fact that it's candy, I mean, we have top trainers now saying the same thing. Top trainers who are putting Olympia, caliber guys, on stage, turning people pro. It's not uncommon. What is odd or different is that Mark has been so low carb high fat for so long. Yeah. That when this guy explains what he's doing, of course he's incredibly insulin sensitive. Yeah. So he's going to, you know, he's going to benefit to some degree from from these carbohydrates, but it's not going to be specifically to just sucrose. Yeah. You know, by the time the body gets it, it's converted to glucose anyway. No matter if it starts as a start or it starts as, you know, anything. And he just essentially going to hit the bloodstream as glucose and it's going to be stored and use where it needs to be. So you have someone who's been high fat low carb, arguably not very full from a glycogen standpoint and they switch their diet and he probably goes look better because all of a sudden he's going to be fuller. It's going to amp up the metabolism, but no more so than any other. Any other carbohydrate it could be rice. It could be candy. It would probably be a good easier to eat 1,000 grams of sugar than it would be like 1,000 grams of carbs from, you know, rice. It would be from a volume standpoint, but I got to tell you that a lot of people would not be able to stomach. Well, like if you just said, hey, you need to eat 1,000 grams of carbs from candy. Yeah. I know myself. I just switched to trying to get some crappy carbs in for my cheat meal. And I couldn't get through two cookies. Two decent sized cookies a lot of feeling like I was going to throw up and had to go back to toast with, you know, a little bit of butter and peanut butter, a cashew butter on it because it was just too much for my system because I wasn't used to it. And I wasn't no carb. Yeah. And I certainly wasn't high fat, no carb. I'm taking in plenty of carbs. So it, or I tell you what it is. Yeah. In my opinion, it's just, it's, it's no one's reinventing the wheel here. I didn't either with skip loading. I had a method that I had kind of, I don't want to say, repackaged, but packaged in the skip loading box and changed some things and came up with a protocol that people could follow and, and it would work. And, and it sounds like it's essentially the same type of protocol that Mark is using, but it's more specific to sugar. Because the other thing at the end of the day, yeah, okay. Some people argue, all candies not that healthy and there's a bunch of crap in there. But the body really only knows that that is carbohydrate. Let me see what else you said. I want to hear more of this. Okay. Tons and tons and tons of sugar and they say skinny. Well, sometimes you have a genetic predisposition to actually increase FGF 21 even more. As a matter of fact, one, you are fast. FF 21. Can we get the way into a longer fast? It's a big start. Increasing FGF 21. And all of a sudden, your energy expenditure can go up a little bit during a fast. Now, what happens is you not only get an increase in energy expenditure, but you get an increase in uncoupling. So, energy will actually just dissipate out of the mitochondria as heat. Now, this is not the old school like eat more to rev it in metabolism. This is a completely different system. A you are basically turning a whole different flywheel here. Your ear is turning it. When you condoning it, how to amp up the metabolism and carbohydrate, it is very, very important piece that we need to know here. Journal of obesity and diabetes metabolism, published a paper that found that when people were overweight, obese or type 2 diabetic, their FGF 21 levels were very high. And the higher their VMI, the higher their FGF 21, what they were finding is that it was actually an indicator of metabolic distress. And the reason is is because when there is more out of host tissue or insulin resistance, the FGF 21 doesn't actually bind at the tissue level. So, you can produce it, but it's just gonna be producing on top of each other and stacking and stacking, stacking never actually get to the end result. Where Mark is different, is Mark is already lean and metabolically healthy. So, he can do this FGF 21 sugar diet thing. And it's actually gonna kick him into another gear. He didn't know he even had. So, no wonder he's getting shredded like crazy and he's dropping weight so fast, where we have to be careful is the evidence is quite strong that if you already have a metabolic dysfunction, or you're overweight. Basically saying if your fat is not really he's wearing his beard. And the reason is because you're going to be stacking energy into what I never actually have. He gets an result making you so if you can get a grass we want to be actually metabolic. Is what I have said in defensive skip loading for a long time. What's that? The average diet of the average person when they eat processed carbs, they get fat because they're not insulin sensitive. They are not putting demands on the body that require the use of those carbohydrates as fuel. Yeah. And because we are, that's why post workout cereal is so beneficial. But if you're not training and you're just the average person and you eat cereal once a day, a large bowl cereal, you're not gonna get leaner and it's not gonna help you recover from a workout and build muscles. So, ultimately, he's not saying anything. He's right, but he's not saying anything. There are no profundities there. Okay. He's explaining, I don't know that he's trying to be profound. That's not what I'm saying. Oh, yeah. This is just, I think he's explaining it. He's saying it for a long time. To the mainstream audience. He's mainstream audience. So four million subscribers, you know? Yeah. Actually get the beneficial part. So what you would want to do is you'd want to do a period of fasting for maybe a few weeks first, like every other day or something before you would ride this approach, right? Right. I mean, doing it every day is a time where you are glycogen depleted. Okay. He doesn't mean that you have to be zero or zero carb. And I've said this, there are guys who can take in three or 400 grams carbs a day and be glycogen depleted and benefit from this type of dieting or skip load. Yeah. You don't have to, and that's where the misconception for skip loading always seems to come back to the service. It has to be keto or it has to be zero carb. No. I mean, those things would be good to get you their faster if you needed it, right? But absolutely, they can be used, but it's not a prerequisite. If you're going, which means they're going to preserve muscle, the problem is they also are pro fat storage. So in the case of Mark, what he's doing, he needs to keep sugar super super, super high. He needs to keep fat ridiculously low. And he can also keep protein ridiculously low. So that he gets the main benefit of pure sugar. But he is consuming so much throughout the day that he's having an anti-cathabolic effect. Sure. It's the most glorious way to really preserve muscle is just by using carbs, because you have to consistently feed them. But again, this is what Mark does. He just experiments on himself and tries these things, which is what I explain when people are type two diabetic or obese, also increases with age. So for a number of reasons, the tissue becomes less receptive to FGF21. And it's one of the reasons why when you're young, it has less to do with your metabolism being fast. And more to be with the fact that you can be more receptive to FGF21. You can eat more sugar and it's going to have more of an effect on actually giving you energy. Whereas, when you consume sugar when you're older, yeah, I would ask you about that. That's a good assumption. It's just a misconception. It has to do with this after you've seen one thing. So as you get older, you're taking in a lot of carbohydrates and that increases your insulin levels. That if there's fat in there, that fat will be stored as fat that's silly. It's just a, it's not silly. It's just a, it's just a misconception. It's just, it's not true. You would have to be in a surplus at that point because the muscle will still store triglyceride. Now, it won't store it anywhere near the capacity that it will glycogen. Sure. But it will still store it. So it's, it's misunderstood in the sense that that's where we have come across the industry. Has gotten this idea that if you're using insulin or you're taking in high carb meals to replenish glycogen and if there's any fat in there that it's going to be stored as body fat and that is just not true unless there's a surplus. And I give in example. I mean, I go right now in prep progressing crazy right now. Yeah. Five meals, five or six meals, it's straight high carb moderate protein, very low fat and my last meal is arguably moderate carb and relatively high fat. Okay. Like butter on toast, then cover the butter with cashew butter. It's things like cheat foods like a gourmet cookie. Yeah. Those aren't, you know, and the guy was showing, he's talking about high sugar low fat foods that aren't choosing but he's, she's picking up candy bars. So you have to be more specific, skittles and things like that. Yeah, those are just basically, you know, sour patch kids, though, or sour patch candies, whatever they're held, how they're called. Those are just high sugar low fat. Yeah, candy bars. That's some of the junk that he's showing is counter to what he's saying because it's also high fat. It's a high-dissom guy or he doesn't edit his own videos. He's got a guy doing that, I'm sure. You know, it four million subscribers. So that guy didn't know. And the other thing, too, is like you said, you're to do it. And I've done this last week, you from a condition standpoint and from a response standpoint, it can be garbage food. It can be unhealthy food. Yeah. But at the end of the day, one of the things that I changed over the years was I thought to myself, well, okay, I was young. I could get away with it. I didn't really care about the fact that it was on how that just cared about whether I was leaner or bigger. Yeah. As I've aged, then I thought, wait a minute, we can do this same thing by taking in healthier foods without all the added chemicals and dyes and crap that goes into this food. True. Even if it's as silly as getting or as simple as getting a cookie from, you know, Mamma New York that is organic and no preservatives and things like that. And is incredibly decadent and awesome cookie as an example. But, or you can shove your face full of orials that just has a bunch of garbage and the response from a condition standpoint will be the same. You were with me until you started trashing orials. That's where you were. That's where you were. Let's hear this last thing he has to say here. He said one more point he said. I think that's important to note is that Mark has shifted his training to a little more lifting and more sprinting. And part of it is a demand driven process because he's consuming so much in the way of the sugar. It's driving him to want to do that. Keep in mind, if this is his job, right? So for him to consume sugar and be like, I'm going to go and sprint and I'm going to have a longer, more intense anaerobic workout today. He can do that. So where I want people to be cautious is if you're someone that's metabolically on the fence, you're your kind of healthy kind of not, you work a desk job. This might not be the approach for you. You might be a better off just doing more of a traditional water fast than this sugar fast kind of thing. But it's very important that I put this information out there because I don't think that Mark is doing any kind of dangerous. Mark is doing something that we work very well. He's actually putting a solid point. And a lot of it is that he's like he's doing this community service for everybody. It's so selfless. And again, he just is touching on the fact that Mark has switched to more of an anaerobic type training. Yeah. No kidding. Because now he has glycogenes as main fuel source. He can do it. Of course. So you're going to be, you're going to want to replenish the glycogen, then you're going to want to deplete it with the training, then you're going to want to replenish the glycogen with the carbs, the candy, the crap. Yeah. And just it's a constant cycle. So is he right? Yes, he's right. Is he repackaging or say him? Is this guy explaining how Mark is repackaging essentially what we have been doing, not just with skip loading, but with other methods in prep for the last 15 plus years? Yes, it's all the same. Yeah. Yeah, I could see that. I just thought it'd be fun. Like I said, one of our listeners pointing that out. He was like, hey, is this any, how was this different? This sugar loading? And so from there, I saw this video and then I saw a trend, not trend, a trend with a D of there being other videos about sugar loading. So I think that it might be a new topic that's happening right now. Yeah, a trend that makes sense, man. And at the end of the day, I think it sounds like it would work really well on the main stream, because who doesn't want to hear that they can do a diet where the eat skills, or Starburst all day long, right? And the average person can. He is wrong about that. The desk guy, if he wants to go out and start weight training and doing anaerobic exercise, the depletes glycogen, then he can do that type of sugar. Well, or skip low. Not tomorrow. He can't just much tomorrow. But he can relatively quickly. How long would you say? And I know that that's a, you know, not a bit of a week. OK. Yeah. Depending on obviously the level of commitment and whether it's going to continue to be consistent and structured, it is those two weeks. I have guys and if had guys start prep, it's not common, but it still will happen. Yeah. I think a one client in particular, because he stands out, he would always come to me, it'll roughly a hundred pounds overstage weight. And we knew it within 10 days to two weeks' top. So he could start his skip lowening. OK. And people would argue, oh, no, he's too fat. He's going to be, he's not insensitive enough. He's not going to benefit from that. And yet he would. And he did. And he would hit the stage and look insane. Hell. Yeah. Listen, I wasn't sure how this topic was going to go on, honestly. I was like, because I only saw the first couple minutes. And I got the premise for it. And then when we started watching it, like, you didn't have anything to say for it. And we had like that long block of nobody talking. And I was like, oh, shit. Is this going to bomb? But I just turned out really good, man. With that messenger thing. And yeah. And of course, as soon as you label it, it was something that's like, ooh, that's, I didn't know anything about, I mean, I still don't. I don't know exactly what that messenger hormone is. But I'll tell you this. He just explained why 20 years ago, I could and explain what the mechanism was that caused skip loading to have that impact, the high car. Because if you do the math, it doesn't math. If you do the coloric math, and you say, oh, you took in this amount of calories on this day, and you average off those calories over a week, you can't lose body fat. That's why it's not a mathematical coloric issue, black and white, at the end of the day. It's not. It's the impact of the timing of those calories over time and that cyclical change. Even my 15, what, 14, 1500 grams of carbs every six days now. And I'm losing sometimes two, two and a half pounds. It's coming off arguably, I don't wanna say too fast, but close. Yeah. And I'm not on people would think, oh yeah, your carbs must be in the basement and your calories must be low. No, and that's not counting the fat in my last cheat meal. Where I'm loading up butter, I'm toast with cash you butter. Yeah. Well, there's a lot of calories. I mean, there are times where I guarantee, I would bet that my last cheat meal on my last low day, plus the cheat meal, I mean, it was probably seven thousand calories. And if the scale is going down. Do the math. It's not there. It doesn't math. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in, go to teamskip.com, reach out to skip for coaching, hit me up McNallydites at jmail.com. And of course, trinutrition.com user could think over there, supplementsourst.ca for Canadian security, for which from Patreon and hey, if you're new to our content, and you like what we do, maybe you just saw this as the first time you saw us, if you wanna see more, we do podcast, come out each week. Skip and I do blood sweat and gear that comes out every Friday. So be sure to tune into that and subscribe and hit the bell. For a lot of long time people that haven't hit the bell, guys, it need to hit the bell. You know what, it's the only way you'll know that we put new stuff out, guys. For another episode here of Blood Sweat and Gear reactions, I don't know what do we call this. We'll see you soon. Sounds good. Yeah, we'll take it. All right, and we appreciate you guys in the livestream. We had a bunch of stuff here that we were trying to power through. Interesting, I didn't get a chance to get to some questions we had in the stream, but just to mention you guys, Rob says, have you seen the latest research on BPC-57 drastically helping heart failure issues? Very interesting. I have not, but I had heard about TB 500 and had a friend who had a major heart issue after catching a virus on a cruise ship a few years ago. TB 500 was a huge benefit to him. So I'm not surprised at school. All right, we appreciate you guys. Thanks for tuning in. We'll see you soon. More I think about it. 7,000 is generous because five meals, 200 grams and protein, those are 1,000 apes.

So I'll tell you a little story. So when I did you call the last year, Steve Warren Burger was judging you at a place second. And I went in line for his feedback. And he got his feedback. I make sure I had a record button on my phone. I wanted to, I wanted to, you know, remember it. He's like, oh, Kevin Wilson, you like your small. He's like, need work and he likes, I'm like, that's it. He's like, that's it. All right, nice to meet you. Steve thinks that that was it. Every the whole year, I had that thing in my headphones, the whole entire year on the day. Every set, every rap, one repeat. So I came to Chicago this year and he was judging. And when I won, I got the mic, I said, I looked at the directing as I was just saying, I listened to the judges feedback, Steve, you, all you guys. And I listened to it very, very precisely. And I trained all year for this show to make those corrections. And he looked at me and he gave me a nod. And I was all I needed. I was all I needed. That's like five paragraphs from Steve. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building. Of course, Ron Partlo with Dusty Handshot and the producer Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes, like the tempo. I still think you need to buy a drum set, Dusty because now that you're a percussion, I've been doing a lot of air drumming recently with the concerts, Nikki takes me to. And oh, you're going to rock concerts with your woman. And it's embarrassing. I do an out in public to just like you. I might just bust out the drum set in the restaurant. Yeah, no, I know. It's good. Keep it alive. The kids aren't rocking anymore, Dusty. Gotta keep it. Okay, today on the show, of course, Kellon Wilson, you're due for an appearance my friend. About time, we begged him for months. Yeah, multiple pro show winner. Going to a second Olympia in a row this year. And I thought, this guy trains at my gym. Why the hell has he not been on my show yet? He's going to win. He's going to win. Yeah, it's the way you run roles. If you're in my life, you're just a normal person. Yeah, just a normal person. We just presented immediately what you've accomplished. Yeah. And so it's like we got to get Kellon on the show. And a purpose. Yes, good to have you. And of course, you're immune, and athlete with Dusty and I, while we're not half-fleet anymore. We're just happy here. You're just up in air quotes still run. Yeah, you're just in air quotes. They're targeting tools. And primarily, we're being tools. So, come on. Come on, it's actually a sponsored athlete with mutants. So remember, I am mutant.com, get your heart core ISO. Yes. Get your mind FK and of course, everyone should be on the gear. Kellon, let's get to it. How are you doing, man? Two pro shows this year that you won. And recently, got back from San Antonio, where you didn't get the win, but man, you looked crazy. What's going here? You're head now. I'm a little bit tall. The management of the amazing year. Honestly, I just, it's been in some of the breakthrough year. And yeah, start off with Chicago Vancouver. And then, recent Santa, or New York, best look yet, and just riding the train. Got to link in three weeks. And yeah, man, just enjoy it. Just enjoy it. So when you qualify for your first Olympia last year, I think a lot of guys, I've seen it with a lot of people, they're like, oh, God, first Olympia. And they know, you know, in the classic division where you are, you know, they're like, because it's going to be 50 guys. So it's probably pretty overwhelming. What was that last year when you qualified to do it, and you got, I'm going to go? Yeah. I mean, it was a dream come true to say, at least, honestly, the whole experience of Olympia, just enjoyed everything about it. It was like, I said, it was a dream come true. I was just happy to achieve that goal. But it was surreal being up there with all those guys. Chris being his last Olympia, bring on just all the idols that have been watching on YouTube and seem in person beyond stage of them was wild. It was crazy. Yeah. Now, where were you at? I've sort of asked you this, but I want to hear what you tell it to the rest of the people. You know, you're a pro. You want to show, you earned your trip, you're at the O. You belong there, you're supposed to be there. You know, you're in shape, you know, you look great. But that's still bummed. And that's still, beyond. And that's still, you know what I mean? What was that like for you backstage when you're standing there going, oh, shit. Okay. Honestly, I had to keep my fan growing side me and I was seeing the formulas and athletes like I said, I'm a pro. But it was definitely hard. You know, like I said, I enjoyed every moment of it, but definitely seeing those guys in person, I had to keep that little screaming fan growing side me and not go running, give them a hug, or ask for a picture of backstage while they're popping up, right? Right. And but it was all positive right. You didn't look at anybody and go, what the fuck am I doing here? No, no, no, no, no. I know how to guys go through that. Even when they, you know, totally don't realize how good they look. A lot of guys go through that. I've heard people like good guys that were top, you know, top eight in the hundreds of men's, yeah, hunter, hunter like I saw rammy. And I was like, what am I doing here? You know, I'm like, so yeah, man. So then you must have, you know, with classic vicious division, they're like 50 guys at the, oh, they got all these shows. You're all forcing yourself into kind of the same body weights. So you're all so comparable. It's one of those, one of those divisions where everyone, you know, there'd be a bunch of guys on stage that look really great and it's hard to pick, especially in some of the other shows. So to qualify two years in a row. So now bring us up to speed. So now where's your head at now? Yeah, I mean, going into this year, obviously, all the kind of backtrack a little bit last year, my way cap was two or four. So I got a, I got a Bob bin increase in way cap. So it's actually two, 12 going into this year. So I had some room to put on quite a bit of muscle. We put on about eight nine pounds. So going into this year, I knew I was going to be a bit more competitive and also be able to do some bigger shows and win them. So we said to Chicago and like the goal was to go in there when the Chicago, I played second last year. And we did that. And then Ben Cooper was a hometown show that I like doing last year was my first qualifying show. So we did that show and had a really good battle with the local athlete here. He also trained the West Coast Aaron jaws. Yeah. So it was a good battle there and he got the qualification there. And now just going into this limpian hour, I just want to improve obviously my physique, my look and improve my placing as well in the classic physique division. Do you know, when you, we get, we go through this. You say we, who's your team? Give us your team. Yeah, he's on the Kellon squad. I mean the wizard, Brandon Pettington himself, that's been my coach that I started in 2016. I first show. He's a local guy here. There's an out of the fridge. He's done via, he's working with me. He knows my body. He knows me very, very well. And I owe all my success to him. So and then obviously my fiance, which helps motivate me in this pretty hard on me at times. So yeah, man, I got a good team behind me and I'm very, very blessed to have it. Tell me about Brandon, your coach. I mean, I know him, great guy comes to my gym all the time. Talk to him. You and him, I mean, you nail every single show. You guys have a thing. Like it is 100% on. What do you think you guys got? You just know each other so well and. Focusing. Yeah, like, well, bring you back to my first friend. I was doing flooring for my boss and he was mutual friends with Brandon. And he asked me to have a sit down, Brandon, he's like, you should meet this guy. You know, he wants the coach. He had said pictures of me to him. And I met a Starbucks, I remember. And he was like, listen, he's like, I really want to help you. You have a big potential this for. I think you will pro. And at the time, I was like, no body building, you know, thong on stage. I don't know, you know. He's like trust me. Just trust me. Just let me coach you for your first show. So we did our first show together. And I mean, I won my previous class. And with me, I have a genetic potential to stay lean around. So it was just just having the guidance from him with diet and nutrition and just falling a game fine on improve myself. And I'm a very coach, Matthew, I come from a football background. So it's easy for me to just follow what's told. And that's basically it's easy as that. So I just been doing you after year. And Brandon is a coach. He's a good coach because every year he improves his knowledge of coach. So he's always learning, always, you know, try to take up new courses, always researching. So him, better yourself as a coach is bettering yourself as an athlete. And it's just, it's just worked, man. And I don't see myself body building without him. So yeah. You've, I remember when we first opened West Coast and you came into the gym. I mean, that would've been 2017. We all got. So you came in like within the first year, right? I don't remember that first time. What would you have weighed back then? Like, were you like 180? Well, 170, yeah. On 70. And I remember thinking, like, I think you were getting ready for a show. It might have been the pop eyes. I don't know what show you did. But you were getting ready for something. And I remember thinking, that guy's got a good back. He needs to add size. But he's got a great look and a great back. And like, you know, you see like, someone kind of goes, hmm, that guy's, that guy's good. Right? And so to see you, like, if you were to tell me that, oh, that kid's gonna do the Olympia. I would've been like, holy shit. Because you were good, but it's just awesome to see like someone actually take it. Because we see people all the time that have, you know, you look at, you know, I meet all guys all the time. I'm like, oh, this kid's got great genetics. But he's, you know, at least casually into it or whatever. And you feel like some of it sometimes that doesn't get used. Yeah. So it's, because I hate seeing it not get used. You know what I mean? Yeah. That's one of the things about looking at you now in your stage is I just, you're completely different physique like you've transformed your legs or three times as big as it used to be and all that stuff. You know, you just chip in a way like if, how, how much have you changed training over the years and all that? Have you just been hammering the same nail and just getting it done? Honestly, I, I was watching a podcast a little while ago. I'm gonna plot this video of Jake Colour and you was saying you see a lot of great guys amazing potential in their physique and they didn't go far because they didn't have the mindset. And I was looking back at like when I started and I think the biggest thing I honestly think was 80% of my mindset how it's improved over the years and just being able to just be positive and enjoy bodybuilding and have a balance in life. And obviously, you know, the training has improved and the diet has improved. But mostly just the mindset around bodybuilding has got me this far out of it to that. What would you say you changed during that time? Cause I know some people that, I know a lot of people need to work on that area. Like what adjustments do you see you made when you say you enjoy bodybuilding more? I think, I mean, obviously I didn't start out winning every show. I started out too. I mean, other shows I lost and I think when I was younger, I would kind of have a bad attitude on it and, you know, be hard on myself on it. And I think as time went on, I actually just looked at other things like I enjoyed the show, enjoyed the process of the show and being able to spend time with my family up the lead to the show and my coach and making memories. And maybe we now had got the best place in, but we had the best look. And I think that just kept me going and not even having a bad attitude on, not always winning. And just enjoying the process, leading up to the stage. I think that you nailed that because when I saw your post show, the first post you put up, what I gathered from, it was awesome was you said, this is the best look I've had. Yeah, and you didn't win. You've won two other shows this year, but I could tell through the post that you were very proud of the changes that you guys made for that show and the placing was just the placing. Correct, correct. Is that just because of classic division? Like, do you see the classic division as, how do I put this? More unpredictable as the open? Because I'm too sure. You know what I mean? It's tough to say, because you have a lot of apples and oranges and the fizziques that come to show us right? And sometimes it's hard to compare for the judges that have a very, very hard job. So I mean, I just have to focus on myself, right? And I think for us, I think we've developed a pretty complete physique. And I think now it's just nailing, being conditioned in all shots and having the same on a texture and hardness and all shots throughout the physique, head to toe left to right. And that's all we need to focus on. I mean whoever shows up, whoever shows up if I'm against a pole of the Irish or a guy, I can't really play to their strength. They'll play to my strength. So I don't really try to worry about that too much, but it is a subjective sport at the end of the day. I want to ask you about the actual, we get a lot of people that ask us actual questions about the food and the diet and that sort of stuff. What's your diet like? Are you, you're naturally lean, you're always hard. You're always relatively offseason hard, right? So are you, do you ever go super low carbs? Are you dieting on 30 grams of oatmeal or are you pretty fed all the time? I mean, when that first started, obviously the calories are lower due to how much less muscle I had on my frame, but I mean, just this past this past year of these perhaps, I mean, I dieted on 4500 calories. Right. Yeah, so I was eating good, but obviously it was running through me. So how many months have you had your stride of glutes for? Like, like, you're stride of glutes almost all year? All year, yeah, you just say, yeah. Isn't it funny how you were not comfortable with the idea of doing a show in a song, but now you're on a podcast where another man's asking you about your ass. You got a cop, cop, cop, cop, cop, cop. That's got a plan to shot. I can't be the only person to have thought of that. I was like, here we are. Post production insert. You got it. Yeah, yeah, this one's a little filled with screen for five seconds here. This is a nice log. Somebody's going to be at work watching this and their boss walks by right while there's just a man's ass. Soon, right. Honestly, I'm going to. Now, I was going to say though, before just a purely on the fan aspect, I love classic physique for a million reasons, but your physique as balances it is. What I love is, every time I pull up a picture, the first thing I think of is your legs are stupid. Yeah. They're just pretty crazy. They're, and it's like you said, it's the shape, but it's also the texture. You've definitely perfected your posing because it doesn't matter what angle you're at. You are split in every direction possible. For the young up and coming guys, like, what did you do to get to the point where you could show your physique so well? Because that's something I struggle with. I have a few classic younger guys. And they really like to put themselves in poses that are great for someone else. Yeah. And I'm like, I'm not saying that's how I could pose. I'm just saying it's not a good pose on you. Right. I mean, for a young guy, I mean, I'm done it too. It's just trial and error. I mean, you have to, you have to, you know, two things that you're going to fail at. I mean, I had shots on shows. I don't look at them. I mean, I look back. And, you know, I'm like, you know, this isn't good. You got to, you got to pose to your strong points. And I think it's just a trial and error thing. But I think having a good pose in coach is key. And I also think you have to be a coach will athlete when you have a pose in coach. You have to listen. And if your coach tells you, this doesn't look good. And you do not do that shot. Simple as that. So I have a supposed to argue with your coach. Right. I'll tell you, I have a great story for that. When I was working with JJ Marsh, I always hit like the class, most muscular. We're like the hands on hips. So I hit that. And he's like, oh, it looks great. And I hit the hands on hips. It's like, yes. He goes, give me a crab. So I give him a crab because don't ever do that again. He's like, don't ever do that. And I was so funny because I already knew that. But I just loved it. Right. When I hit a heels like, oh, no. Tell me, tell me, do you do a much with working on Ab control? Is there anything in particular that you've had to do to try to like, focus on, you know, because obviously you guys need more Ab control than anybody. It's a huge topic in all the divisions now. But you guys, especially man, like you take a breath out for just to second. And you're going to get crucified because somebody's going to snap a picture. They're going to be like, oh, my god. And you know, he's got a public eye. So you know, and I look at your pictures, man. You have a great midsection. What is that protocol? Look like it is something you do year round. He does nothing. He shows the right hands. But I'm not. I'm happy to test on that. Honestly, I mean, there's the basic, you know, your fast-acquired, you had great Ab work your backings in the morning. Yeah, I'm sure everyone has that. But what Brandon has done after every show in our health phase, we actually do intermittent fasting to help me down the waste. And just reset the digestive system. And for me, it's actually helped me a lot with shrinking my waste and just that taper. And so every year, when the competition is done, we're going to help face and we'll do intermittent fasting for a period of time, really work on that app control. And then even through the off season, we're still doing backings. We're still doing abs in the morning after a cardio. And I think it's one thing that if you get away from that, then you're going to lose it. So we try to keep that in all year. Yeah, I agree. I'll go ahead to God. Oh, I just kind of follow up then. So I wanted to ask you to, like, what is the vacuum training look like? But then also, do you guys have to watch as you're eating food? Because obviously, you don't like you said, you can eat a good deal of food into the show. Is that a consideration? Are you guys watching the amount of volume that's going to be from a particular carbs or stuff like that? Yeah. So to the first part of the ad training the morning, I got the MFATs of cardio. And then I'll do probably three sets of the roller machine. No weighted out training because they want to build their bleaks. I'm going to do some planks. And then I'll do bent over six rounds, hold the vacuum for 20 seconds, and then stand up six rounds, hold the vacuum for 20 seconds. And then that's basically every day. So we're basically training abs every day, just non weighted. And then for the food look like that. I got to that then. I got to ask, I'll keep since you got that already. And I'm going to dig a little bit deeper because I think everybody's going to be really interested in hearing this stuff. And honestly, I'm selfishly kind of interested in learning more too. It's not about the people. Right. No, it's all about me right now. It's all about me. I had to get that. Scott's got to come back plans. Yes. So how long does that that daily protocol take just out of curiosity? So using my cardio stays at 30 minutes and then that whole routine circuit, usually about 30, 35 minutes to off. Okay. So that's a pretty big investment. And for your average guy that's listening right now, thinking to themselves, I want to compete. I want to have the best abs. That's a good amount of time. And I think as an amateur beginner, I think start off with three sets. A few breaks in between. I think as I progress, I usually go on the FST at seven movements. So we'll do a set, 20 second break, a set, 20 second break just because it actually helps control that stomach transfer to stage as well. Okay. Yeah, that's fascinating because I feel like the abs stuff is just the core stuff. I almost feel like with classic specifically, they are taking it to such a next level. Like this year alone, I'm seeing guys just just sucking in so much further than it's ever been. Really do think that we're taking it to like the absolute extreme that it can be taken at this point. It's kind of a pretty cool part of the class. Yeah. One more trick, it's a little bit of secret breath work and hot yoga. Okay. Okay. You can hate hot yoga. Yeah. So the breath work side of things, man. I didn't recognize how important that is. So when I'm doing planks, I realize it's not just the fact you're doing a plank. It's breathing at the same time, right? Correct. Correct. Yeah, what are you doing with that air? Because you know, obviously, I want to just let it go straight to my belly and let it push out. That's not what I'm supposed to do, right? Yeah. So honestly with the plank, how you're keeping that waist cinch and tighten those abs flex, it's going to train you to breathe through your upper chest frame and keep that waist cinch. Basically, we don't say that's what you want. You want that waist glute to your spine and not have that breathing in and out. So you're able to breathe through your upper diaphragm and not have that suddenly pumping in and out. So plank's are an amazing thing. All breath work as well. I used to think it was, I used to think one of the things I prided myself on was I could hit a full abshot locked out and I could just hold it and I could do it through my diaphragm, just shallow little breaths. Yes. And I could sit there with my abslock and it always blew my mind that other guys, when I'd watch the videos back at the national level and stuff, they hit to abs, they got one or two seconds. And then they hit them again and they got it to you. And they're twisting and they're moving and they're doing this and they're moving all around because they couldn't lock and just breathe shallow and just stay calm and not, you know what I mean? I see a lot of people that I don't know if they just never learned how to do that. You know, breathe shallow and the staying calm part and they're flexing everything else too hard and all that stuff. So the thing is staying calm honestly, when you don't say it, you just want to stay calm. You start having breathing. That's what's going to start coming. Yeah. Yeah. I know the big sweat thing, people always wonder what happened. Like, did you screw up your carbs? Did you take to make some go wrong? Yes. Things that can go wrong with blood sugar and all that. But a lot of times, people are just heated up and wound up and huffing and puffing and they're just too hot. They're just too hot. So what do you think of that? Yeah. I mean, honestly staying calm for a stage is a huge thing. I mean, before I go and say that I like to take a good, you know, five minutes, it's just breath work, just calming down the mind, relaxing, just at everything at ease and even when you're on stage, trying not to get too hyped up, it's all, it's all, it's easy, you're said to done. But just keeping everything calm and subtle and posing is very calm, posing and you're not supposed to be posing hard and posing aggressive. You want to pose calm and subtle and look classic, you know, it's not body building. We're not going out there hitting most muster shots and you just want to be calm and so let's spit on the crap. Exactly. Exactly. He can still be. I, I wanted to tell a story. I don't remember when this was. You might, you might remember what time period this might have been. But, you know, we talked a lot on this show about your training hard and just get out. And I remember you coming in the gym, you might have been 200 pounds to 100 pounds. I don't know how much you weighed. You might have been, I don't know, 210, maybe 220, but like off season. I don't know. You weren't nearly as big as you are now. But you had come in and you trained so freaking hard, man. I remember because I was a type of guy that always like judge people on how intense your training was right. I just didn't care. I just said, I'm judging. So, so dusty knows. So, so I could have stopped a judge people and not. Yeah. I just think like 10 times worse. I'm the nice one, right? So, like, I, you know, when I see, I remember you coming in and squat in five plates at like the body weight of 210. I don't know. Would you have been? Yeah. I think you was 190. And your squatting is like three barbells. Yes, squatting to five plates routinely. Like every time I saw him doing legs, he was in squat rack, starting with five plates squats. And like not easy set, not like cranking out, eight and rack in it. But like almost dying under the bar on like a five six reps set. Like heavy ass, 500 pounds squats. I might be remembering the reps incorrectly. You tell me, you did 20 reps. But you were like really training on the edge. Like you know, your, your fifth rep look like you're barely going to get it. You know, like you'd go for one more. Like you were heavy squatting. And now you're at the Olympia. So, I don't know. There's a connection. Like, I, I, I, with all the math and all the formula and all the way people train now with it, I think there's still something that you said like, you got to go to the wood shed with yourself, you know? Yeah. And, and like just find out where your wall is. I don't know. How, how do you feel about that? I, I, I, 100% agree. I mean, to build a good base physique with hard granite mature muscle. I feel you got to, you got to lift heavy weight. Now obviously controlled, good form, asked to grasp. But you, you got to put up some numbers, you know, for reps. And if you look at all the old school guys. I mean, yourself, Ron, Dusty, you know, J, all these guys, like they put up good weight. And if you look at their muscles, it's hard deep, separated. You don't get that from training with, you know, 10 pound bar squats. You just use it don't. Hmm. I feel like, uh, one great thing that happened to the classic division was that Bumstead was number one right away. And he put out content showing people how he trained. Yes. I feel like if he didn't, a lot of guys would say, well, this isn't bodybuilding. Yeah. So I'm not going to train like a bodybuilder. But seeing him with his cinched up waist, deadlifting six plates for reps. Yeah. I think told people like, this is bodybuilding. It's just a different division of bodybuilding. And I just, I always thought that was, I think the sport would be in a different spot. Well, Chris was, he wasn't putting out of him. He was, I know he was a bodybuilder. For the stronger pound for pound, then most of the open guys. Oh, he's ridiculously strong. Yeah. But you know, he didn't, he didn't switch to classic and then change his training top to bottom. I'm sure there's adjustments. But he was still in the gym, ripping. And I think that that has done a huge service to the guys that are on the Olympia stage now and the guys coming up because if not, there could have been some confusion. We'll say. Hmm. Yeah. Yeah. Two divisions, two different ways to like, live your existence. Yeah. And it's not really. What do you think of what EUR is dead? That is insane. To say to these honestly insane and honestly, but you guys, I'm not far away from doing that as well. And you don't have much room in my top. We have a little bit to grow. But I mean, I don't see myself as tricking myself for training to stay in the vision. So I think what he did was amazing. I mean, when he back to act shows was crazy and his look was just better and open. It was just better. What do you get up to in your off season, weight wise? 240, 240. Yeah. Yeah. That's a lot to bring down then with lines of his thoughts. Yeah. That's a good idea. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Before we got too far away from it, I wanted to circle back around about that food volume question. So you were saying that, yeah, you guys do pay attention to the amount. And I thought that that was interesting. I've been talking to more and more people about that Dorian Haywood who just won the Masters Olympia. You know, he had worked with a great friend, mine, late Dave Calick. Dave always had him eating like high, high volume of food. Dorian's a huge dude. But one of the changes that they made now is that they reduced the food. They went to more shakes. Like half of his food was liquid this year. Instead of doing like 10 ounce portions of meat seven times a day. And guess what? Is the best that his waist has ever freaking looked? Yeah. Yeah. I mean food volumes a big thing. We have to show for this for these perhaps all of this. We keep putting source shrimp and digest fast. You like shrimp, man? I'm like, I'm sure. I don't know. I love shrimp. Oh, sea shrimp. Yeah. It's so good. Yeah. And then we'll usually do like a night time. A night time, heavy meal like potatoes and steak. That's been the trick. So we'll do like five seconder grams of potatoes and two hundred grams of steak. And that'll be the night time. And I wake up full and we just feed evenly into the show. Carbs at night? What? Don't necessarily get stored as fat. Do you even in a giant deficit? So based on what you just said, when you're leading into the show, I'm assuming your carbs are pretty close to what they were. The whole prep when you're filling up. Not pretty close to the whole prep. We're filling up. The only adjustments we make is the creamer rice instead of doing three to one water. We'll do one to one water, some of the moans, a little bit tighter. And then we'll just add in like I said, that potato will be on the steak the night before the show. And then the show day, it's usually calorie dense stuff like maybe a rice crispy tree with a little bit of almond butter, just to hold the look. And then the I like I said, just feed up, rest and go pose. Well, what's your feedback from the judges? Do you talk to the judges? Do you bother every show? Yeah, you do every show. Well, what did they tell you? I mean, obviously like you. They've won three shows. So what are they telling you? Yeah, I mean, the last show here, this is the first time the judge has judged me. So basically, what I expected is like, I love your luck. He's like, don't change anything about your luck. You have everything I want to see. It's just the backside. You just wanted to match the front a little bit more. He's like, you're your front is on. It's tried. It's hard in the back since the match is just a little bit more. So you're going to go back to the drawing. It works. Like in great condition. So I mean, the classic is classic. These classic. Yeah, it's classic man. Yeah, it's funny. You just that level, you're at that level where there's always a millimeter. Yeah. Yeah. It might be another millimeter. Oh, you're pretty good. You're pretty good today, but you can be better. You're not a millimeter. Yeah. And that's a crazy level. And I think to myself, I'm really a fan. I've always been a fan, obviously. But now I really look at this from the lens of appreciating what it takes and all the stuff that we went through to do it and all that. So when I see the consistency in conditioning, really impresses me. Because I know how hard it is to get in shape. And I come from an era where we probably bulked up too much and got a little too fast and getting in shape was a little too hard. So the consistency of getting in shape for every single show and always be in dialed and never really, you've never been off at ever. And that's what impresses me. And more and more of your classic guys are doing that. You just repeatedly, always being on. And that makes that division really brutal. Yeah. Yeah, I totally agree. It's honestly there's always a new level you can achieve. I mean, going back to the Frisolipia, I will say one thing a lot of these guys that are in the top 10. It's another level of conditioning to have. The skin texture is different. I mean, body doing is not a spring. It's a marathon. And I understand that. So show off the show. It just got to keep getting better and better. And it's going to take time. So I can't rush things. But we will get there. We will get there. Do you think on that conditioning thing? And we've talked about this with open guys before. Do you think that some guys are better off to not be completely inside out? Because they might lose something that makes them powerful? Or do you think in classic? You've got to kind of find a way to make that happen because everyone's in such good shape. I look back. I mean, Logan Franklin has become the most conditioned bodybuilder on the planet. He need to ride. And you just can't help but be like, yeah, I just want him to win because he walked through hell really slow. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Honestly, I was having to talk to my coach about this. So I feel if you drive too much to say, let's get the glutes a little more shredded. You may lose your pot. You may lose that roundness. And like I said before, you've got to play to your strengths and my strengths is the perfect amount of fullness, dryness and condition around. So me trying to drive down to a certain bodyweight and get peeled shredded ham shrings that are, you know, look like Jose Mauer, you know, Logan Franklin. I'm not going to have that round, big bubbly back. And you know, my shoulders aren't going to pop, my tries are going to pop. So it's going to work at a disadvantage of me. So it's finding all those three things in combination. I work best for me, so play to my strength. Right. That makes sense. I was going to say to one advantage that open bodybuilders now have that we didn't or younger is what the classic division has brought into the sport because you guys have to be obsessive about every detail. You're thinking about that. You're thinking about your waist. You're thinking about is it flat, what am I eating? And I feel like open bodybuilding used to be about being the biggest riftest guy end of story. You didn't really have a lot of detailed thought about what that meant. And I feel like the classic division has really opened the eyes to open guys to and go on, well, what if I started doing some transversive domino work? Oh, yeah. And what if you know what I mean, those kind of details, and I'm hoping that it'll keep spilling over because I really believe that open bodybuilding is improving because of classic. Right. Because we're seeing these things. And I think it's also going to improve as guys like Irres and eventually you start crossing over because everyone knows that a lot of the best genetic bodybuilders are classic right now. I, I told you, if you did a dusty, but let me ask you this, I think there's a lot of talk about how saps and if he's going to win, he's coming out of later weight, more aesthetically shaped. Do you think it's going to work in his advantage of him coming in a letter weight? And maybe you know, having that big bubbly pop muscle when he's going to be a guy is like the quaker or do you think what he what's your take on that? I mean, my take is the same as everyone's which is we'll see. And what I mean by that is it's possible. We all know that sometimes you get like Jay Kotler 2009, he was so peeled that everyone assumed he was bigger. He was heavier, but he was actually 20 pounds lighter than he had been for years. That's true. The question mark is as he conditions will he look tired and small, right? Well, he looked like he's heavier. So you can't really answer. My knee jerk is that it's dangerous. It's because I think he's getting away from what makes him the champ. It reminds me of when when Jay chased Dexter for his third Arnold that he won. Yes, where he was stringy because he's like, Dexter's peeled. I got to be peeled and said, no, dude, you need to be fucking big. So that it doesn't matter these peeled because you're just too damn big. Yeah. So, you know, my knee jerk is that I agree with you. I think it's a risky risky play. I assume that they're watching and they obviously know what they're looking at. So it could be fine, but I do know that everyone at that level looks great alone. And then when they come together, shit gets real obvious. Yes, preach, preach. Yeah, we'll see what happens. I think it depends on, you know, we say, if you come down a little more to try to get, you know, this body part etched out, you might lose this. I think that's also a timeline issue. If you're like pushing the body hard to try to get another line and then you get the line, but now you're 40s out. You don't have time to fill it back out. Yeah, that's the problem. But if you're on your third show of the year and you've got the line, but you still got your four weeks out. So it's, you can maybe, you know, bring it in at a better end result. You know, fuller looking all that sort of stuff. But yeah, it's, we will see what happens. This year's Olympia is going to be as they say a shit show. Yes. I kind of love that for all the divisions though, too. I mean, you have to feel going into this Olympia that anything can happen now. I mean, you're not the same athlete you were a year ago. And, you know, maybe before, like you said, you didn't have any room. So you couldn't really get to that next level. Yeah, there was no room in the cap. Now that you do, I'm really excited to see what you look like standing next to these guys, because obviously we all know the guys and have seen them in person. I think that this is one of those shows where you look in your, like, anything can happen in that top 10. Yeah. Yeah. What's your goal in your head? What is that? What is, yeah. Sorry. I made it. I'm a set of four of me. You set of four of me. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's a great goal man. And I think, too, you know, last year, your first appearance, everyone feels 50 guys in that lineup. You know, first appearance, he's still did great. I mean, you look awesome. But this year, you really want to go in with a headset like they know me. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not, I'm not a new kid now. I, you know, do you have to work at that? Or is that like easy for you? And what regards do you mean? Just reminding yourself that they know it. I'm a vet here now. They know me. So it's going to be different. So I'll tell you a little story. So when I did you call the last year, Steve Warren Burger was judging you at a place second. And I went in line for it as feedback. And it caused feedback. I make sure I had a record button on my phone. I wanted to, you know, remember it. And he was very stern, very strict. You guys all know Steve. He's no bullshit. So looks a, he's like, yeah, he looks like he's like, oh, John Wilson, you're like, you're small. He's like, you need work and he likes. I'm like, that's it. He's like, that's it. I'm like, all right, nice to meet you. Steve thinks that that was it. Every the whole year, I had that thing in my headphones that whole entire year on the day every set, every rap, on repeat. So I came to Chicago this year and it was judging. And when I won, I got the mic I said, I looked at the directing as I said, I listened to the Jesuits feedback, Steve, you, all you guys. And I listened to it very, very precisely. And I trained all year for this show to make those corrections. And he looked at me and he gave me a knot. And I was all I needed. That was all I needed. That's like five paragraphs from Steve. Yeah, not as a, not as a book. No, you're basically family. I feel like I feel like, I feel like, and this is no disrespect to the other judges. But if Steve pays any form of a compliment, it's the highest compliment. You don't know what I mean. And it doesn't have to be like literally saying, oh, your legs look awesome. You won is the compliment. The knot is, I see you did what I said. That has to be up there with the win itself, just knowing that he recognized it. Of course, 400% of it was, it was proud to see that. Yeah, that's, I feel like, I don't know, I've always loved Steve. I love him the way he is a man in general. So, you know, my best memory of bodybuilding was, I got called out, like, I was the fifth person called out in a class at a pro qualifier. And right when I walked to the side, I was walking to the side, he goes in the middle. And I can hear him saying that in my head permanently. Yes. Did he let me get there? And I was like, okay, Steve just gave me a knot. That's all I need in this life. And thankfully, it's all I needed because it was quickly over after that. I remember, I remember something that gave me a real boost. I went to my first North Americans in O'Neighen. And I didn't make first call out five guys, they called five guys out. And then you know, they just take them off the stage. So you're like, oh, I don't mean to get, and then second call out, they put me in the middle and I got straight first. So I was sixth. You know, right? And I was like, fuck, I weirdly wish I could stick to that fifth place guy. Cause like, you know, they don't do that in North Americans. I'm like, I can take that fifth place guy. Just put me, you know, do like a, do like a three, four, five, six, seven call out. Now fucking smoke some of these guys give you. But they just did do that. So I was like, fuck, and I left the stage. And yeah, I got six. And then it was like the next year I went back. And when they're doing the thing, you know, he's like 187, 181, Ron. And I've never taken like, even if you get buried now. Yeah, you know, it's called me by my name. So that's like, ah, it's almost there, you know? So, but that's a power he has. Cause we just everyone respects him so much, you know? Yeah. And it's, it's funny when, you know, you have that much, you think of the amount of the effect he has on so many people as that hedgeudge, right? The amount of guys like you that have a similar story about, you know, what you're doing to make Steve happy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. So what, what, um, I got to get out of the, the actual nuts and bolts of body building. And we got to get into Kellan. So you mentioned a football background at the beginning of the show. And you were going to go here to get an happen. Yeah. I played some ball to football fan. What, what was your football experience and how did that, did that lead you into the weight room or did you, the weight room legion to football? How did that all go? Ah, football in high school, played for North Florida Bears. I mean, I only played for two years. I was running back. I was pretty small, pretty small, got 140 pounds. Perfect. Perfect high school tail back. So, you know, it was fun. I learned a lot of fundamentals, but it didn't get any into weightlifting. My uncle was a bodybuilder, you know, ever competed. He actually bring me to the gym when I was 15, 16. And he, I'll be awesome. He like I hated after I fucking hated him. I was like, the support that shared that was the lifting weights and she liked that. So we all owe your, your uncle a lot of thanks. Yes. Join me with the quick George. Quick pause. Not a lot of people have a bodybuilder in the family. Like it's getting more common now as we get, you know, the generation switch. Yeah. He looked at our generation. Like not many people had. We were learning from like our uncle. Yeah. Another George didn't exist for all. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know bodybuilding uncles in our generation. Go ahead. Yeah. So yeah. The moment I hit it, you know, I was trying to do try to set push downs and cracking over spilled milk and he was just a hard ass. I mean, he's like, you're going to become the gym with me. You're going to be in chicken rice and like, I want to do this too. I guess I want to play the new games for all. Like, and slowly can do both. Yeah. Exactly. So round us. Slowly, slowly it developed into me loving it after me hating it. And, you know, I'm just trickling to me, me my coach and stuff like that. But yeah, in the beginning, I did not like it. And I did not like it all. I went ask before we go further. How does Uncle George feel about all this? He is very, very happy man. He's a very emotional man when he sees me. He's like, you surpassed what I ever thought or dreamed you could do with this and I'm happy you suck with it. Is anybody in the family mad at Uncle George? Most of them. No, no, he's good. But he's very, very happy though. Very awesome. I love that. So outside of body building, what's Kellon all about? What is Kellon all about? So I have two dogs to American police pocket. They're like my children. Name spames names. They're two girls. So it's Chloe and Pat. So actually there's one sleeping right there. There we go. Oh, that is one of the be right there. Baby, oh my God. So is it now a show? So those are my babies. They spend all day with them. And you know, it's one of the coaching clients online. They're with being the better. You know, I'm taking them for dog walks. And that's just through my life. Do I love them so much? So that's, you know, big part of my life. And then my fiance, heart rate. Yeah. I kind of need her place. She's all a travel a lot. I got to have her. Yeah. So she's a big help on why I can do this man. Because when I travel, she has really exciting. But we've been dog. So she's always staying and watching them. So I'm very appreciative of that. And she's probably the hardest one on the out of every one of my corner. I remember when I went for my pro card in 2021, for North American. I was getting ready to leave and she didn't give me a hug. And she was like, I'm going to say this once. And I'm serious about what I say. I said, well, it's going on. She's like, if you don't win, do not come back. So I'm going to lead to beat this one. I love her. So the dice on that one. Yeah. Yeah. Because I just believe there'd be brutal or it'll be a great movie quote. Yeah. So she's a good woman. And funny story. I met her in the gym and I was actually timid on approaching because she was front squatting more than me. I went flying. And 150 pounds of girl, 140 pounds of girl. And I was really nervous about emotional. So somebody was like, go portrait. Ask her. I'm like, do you see this more than evil? I'm like, I don't know. She's going to go for me. So yeah, I did her. I was a her name and we had a young and left that dot. And then she ended up sending me a demon. And it's going to be like, so you're going to ask me or you're just going to be a pussy. I was going to check out a paid first. The, like, yeah, do you want to go out and the rest of this is your after that? I love this woman. How hard course is this? Takes you like, what is wrong with you? Yeah. Yeah. The shitter get off the pot and just be, you got my name and left it at that. Oh, that's amazing. That is. She's still training everything. Yeah, streams of west coast, lift hard. Yes. So yeah, that's awesome. What's, what's your take on social media? You do, you do good at put yourself out there as a body builder. Your social media is very, very pro body builder. Like, which I, I, I guess what I'm trying to say is like, I'm not the type of guy that likes to show my real private life, you know, I don't quite often. I mean, some people are more comfortable posting like me and my wife going for dinner and me and my wife, you know, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, me and, you know, me and my friends and I, I sort of some reason have something that kind of holds me back with doing that a little bit. I mean, you got to do some of it. But you keep yours very pro body building based, obviously, is that totally on purpose or you kind of just like to kind of keep a lot of it, you know, off? I mean, I feel maybe I can hear this, but I feel I think personal family time and personal time with your close one. It should be, it should be that only. I don't think it should be shared to certain extent because it's memories that you're cherishing with people you love and not everyone in the world needs to see that. Obviously, you know, you know, there's certain events that may be posted, but you know, if I go my way for a coffee or if I go somewhere with my brother or my family, I'm not going to, you know, take the restaurant or, you know, hey, guys, look, I mean, it does need to be that. So I feel that should be kept prior to a certain extent. And, you know, certain things I will post in my personal life, but not everything. Right. Right. I think it's great that you have a thought process with that because as someone who's watched long enough and seen how this going in my entire career was made based on the fact that I was like, come into my house, let's go. You know, but I think that that's awesome because you're choosing to do something that could limit your reach. Because one thing that I would love to see that I've thought about with you is I now know you better from this hour we've been on this podcast than I do from you're in all the social media I follow you. And I just think that there's a, there is a certain level where you don't have to let people into your private life, but I feel like if people knew you better, they would follow you even more because I don't think that someone at your level realizes that you're not human, especially to a lot of the fans you got, you know, yeah, why mean because you have a physique that, I mean, you have to understand I know that your chasing the top of the mountain, but like 99% of people cannot look like you even if they had all the drive you do and everything else and something that humanizes you and makes them go, it has more of an effect than people realize like when I was growing up I, and I was getting ready for my first big show I followed Fulad and he used to do this is back before Instagram and all that. He just had a blog that he would keep and he was getting ready for a show when I was getting ready for a show and he would just say little things he was doing like wasting money on dumb shit or and I just made me go you talk about that money on dumb shit. And, but he really like a connection with him where we both like cars when we're deprived of carps exactly not not good things that we have in common but we have them. But it did it gave me like a connection with with a guy who I knew I was never going to be on his level and it made me like a huge fan beyond his physique because I felt like he kind of walked me through my perhaps. You know, if he was having a tough time because you know, most pros it's easy nobody struggles. This is just what we do and he'd be like I want a cupcake. You know, and I would see that and I'm like I fucking want a cupcake too. But it did help me feel like I almost killed the guy at 7-11 yesterday. Yeah, I don't it made me feel like I'm not weak for these things that I've I've liked seeing. Right. You don't I mean? So I mean selfishly as a fan I would love to just get some things to where people know who you are because I think that it would be I think you would inspire even more people than you think because just what you said right there to me was inspire and just like I don't do this because it's a decision. Yeah and I hear that and I'm like that's a great decision. You have a reason behind it. You know what I mean? I think just a little too like that. It's like I just learned a ton about you that is so fitting and I think there's a lot of people also who maybe are putting their personal stuff out there because they feel like they have to and you're like no you don't. If I piggyback off that you know just critiquing your social media right now my personal opinion is we need 10 maybe 20% more dog content and I would be okay that would be good. 10 times I was alive. I didn't even know you own two dogs just by looking at your social media now I just from that alone I'm like oh my god this guy's my best friend. I wasn't even sure if I liked you before. Yeah. Exactly. He's got my boy. Instant following you know. I'll tell you I'll tell you I'll tell you when I let's say I put up let's say I have a good day where I put up 20 stories because I got a lot of stuff going on. Yeah. Anything with my dogs in it sometimes a bike trick get the most likes. No one actually cares about what I mostly do. No. They don't actually want to know us at all what you know I'm doing. The dogs all have like oh 13 likes 13 likes 300 likes 27 shares I'm like oh dogs. I saw window decal guys the other day that maybe laugh there's on the back of this lady's truck and it just said say hello to your dog for me. And that's like that's me I'm the guy that's laying down with someone's dog at Starbucks. Yes. Yes. I feel like sometimes do you ever so this is what I go through I'll meet other dog people because I'm in a building with like everyone on my tower has a dog which was like right 50 dogs in my tower. I feel like sometimes when you meet someone with a dog and their their dogs really friendly I go to a level that they even think is like weird. Oh yeah. I'm like get down like oh look at this guy and I'm like yeah I'm with their dog and I'm like and their dogs all I know like I'm like this is an amazing and then I look up and they're looking at me like we might dog alone you say dog or you look. I'm like there's different levels with the dog people too not all of them to the same. Overly happy dog dog lover. What what else is going on in your you know I know you like to stay home for work and you're with the dogs a lot sounds a lot like me. What about the what are you doing through time are you like a movie guy are you watch over a nice restaurant guy are you hard-core into watching yeah do you watch football on Sundays what what are you doing through your spare time spare time honestly me my coach will go on food tours that is what we do we're on food tours so last when we did it was a burger food tour we went to the four five burger restaurants and one day and just tried burgers eight leg assholes five that's even worse than a bang bang if you ever done a bang bang what's that a bang bang is where you have you that's he's like I was not a hockey so there was there was a pretty caught in the way I was really young yeah yeah a bang bang is when you go to a restaurant have a full on tray and then immediately go to a different type of restaurant have another full on tray okay no I and you got it you got to come up like you got it like and you you each have to pick something so like if you're going to do a bang bang it can get dangerous because the one guy might pick the diner and the other guy picks Indian food so now you know diner and Indian feedback to back that is bad you got to do it you got to do it okay and yeah I never thought I would say this but here it comes Ron I hope to do a bang bang with you somebody yes well hold it now hold it now that's more flipped but I like it does he and I go into Germany do some bang bang no how do you ever think you find I'm just doing the bang bang with Ron this time in Germany what happens Germany stays in Germany it's fine yes it's very disgusting it's actually a Louis C.K. thing but I I stole it so you do a food to I love this that is for you I barely knew you and now I'm like this guy is a spirit animal that's the best thing where if you go to visit dusty he thinks it it's now important to go out like four times in one day to eat yes no there will be four restaurant stops if you're with us I want him to know that like we're going to good places I'm take a very good and at the third stop you're at the third stop and you're like so fries again yeah fries are always a welcome side but yeah fries me on a road today okay I get what we're doing here I would have fries in an Indian restaurant by the end of an expo weekend Ron is just covered in veins though that's that's what we see we see Ron on Sunday yeah I look my best at the airport on Sunday morning yeah that's great yeah we next time I come to Vancouver I hope that you're in your off season oh I want to try this little run of burgers or whatever there is I've never done how much time between like are you are you yeah is it the drive time is that the only time between or are you like just a drive time that's just a drive time really yeah yeah maps this out to make it like do you do a restaurant in Surrey and then maybe one in North Fans so you got some drive time okay so yeah yeah yeah so Vancouver that could be three hours you could better off five hours yeah yeah well Matt most of them Vancouver because a lot of niche burgers and man Vancouver but we see Vancouver it's a really cool dress we're in a weirdo spots yeah I mean there's one time we did a 20k challenge as well too so it's just held the count I remember when you did that actually I felt that just shy 10k was too much it was too much I think but don't get it do they they don't understand what 20k is hard it is hard man it is hard I think the only way the only way I was ever able to eat upwards of 20k is I'm not sure if I ever hit 20 I know I absolutely hit 15 but the only way I was able to do it was I had a coach named Scott Abel back in the day and he used to very low calorie diet so it was like it was hard but then he had these super compensation days where he said he believed it literally didn't matter what you ate you were in super if you were in true super compensation everything would go to glycogen and more and your body with story and trimuscular triglycerides with some of the fats and you could basically eat like an asshole for a day right and that's but your appetite was also ridiculous because you were on such a your low calories so your appetite you know you're you know the growing and leptin and the blood you were just you could you felt bottomless and I remember being able to eat 15k calories several times doing that but there's no way I could do it without being sort of starbed out yeah game time to do it unless you could take like hormone blockers that shut off your appetite or I don't know what they got now they probably got a pep dead for that but yeah yeah how bad was that it was bad it was bad I think my digestion was pretty screwed for like two weeks but it was fun those were the odd stuff and you didn't yeah yeah I was going to ask if it was worth it I love that you answered did anybody get 20 did I think Brian and Brian and got 17 I think got 17 but I think he ended up going home the ordered pizza had her dominoes and he ended up passing out and he woke up and was at his front door cold oh and he was like oh he was like that was my 2000 calories and I passed out that's all I needed to get done oh he is also a lunatic this is amazing yeah you're love him I'll all I'll send dusty and Scott is Instagram they'll both love his content yeah this is fan I'm Brandon here here's here's all some up Brandon he'll love this Brandon loves the government me too and he thinks we should all trust them and they have our best interest at heart I think we'll get a lot of well then I should occasionally I occasionally even inspired to interact with one of his posts and I'm occasionally inspired to go up to him at the gym and go good story good story walk away in story yeah don't you say which one you know how did I how did I do did I give Brandon again I hope I don't do a very long show he wanted he's a pillar of the community and a trustworthy man and good to have at West Coast tank area you can so hopefully he watches this he's that tired of your stuff way off the Richter here so yeah you can use your podcast anymore yeah yeah I want to see you kick some asses here buddy I'm gonna be there you know what I forgot to do here you guys you guys talk for a minute I'll be right back he does this to us just drops us off I don't know what you know what I forgot to do and then he just walks away he's just going to take a piss I got to ask you Colin so when you get to Vegas what day do you weigh in and then what day do you step on stage weigh in or on the Thursday at least the Friday I believe no Thursday certain then step on stage the Saturday okay so you have a little bit of time to kind of fill out a little bit but that's not a lot is it I just realized I didn't wear my couch shirt oh let's go look at that let's go that's an acceptable leave this show and I wasn't thinking I was like Jesus I knew I forgot something dusty and the semi guys is the address I'll send you guys one two I love it that's awesome yeah yeah that prep series that's cool turn turn turn on the back I can't see it what's on the back got to give you the back too I need to give you the back you know to this is gonna be a lot of work I love that made of do this oh yeah that's sick that's all right you see a lot of great marketing right there that's fantastic yeah that's sick you're pretty cool pretty cool shirt so so we're gonna be there I'm a new we'll be screaming for you and cheering you on and what's the schedule for you what you got pre-judging at the expo yeah I'm excited sad yeah yeah and then fun okay so the only bummer about this is that the mutant team dinners Friday night you're not gonna be there oh that is a bummer but that's all right yeah I'm sure you won't be at any mutant team dinners because you'll always be doing the L so that's okay there's that we'll drag into one of the other country ones and then we're good yeah yeah yeah yeah very excited for you um you know I think it's gonna be a really break through experience and it's gonna be a great show and mutants excited for you and how do you feel about mutant just having them on board support yet oh man mutants an amazing company um I'm so grateful to be a part of them I mean there's great people a part of them like yourself Ron dusty um it's uh it's an amazing company I mean I love the whole team and I couldn't see myself even with any other company man I love all their products I use all their products there's no bullshit um they stand by people that train hard um and people that are real you know and and that's that's me so I love mutants I love yeah it's uh very very happy to see well said you will brand it up in on your way to the LMP again dude so thank you man where can people reach you? yes so my Instagram is a calendar be body-building um YouTube it's I if you be pro-calamelson I train at West Coast Island I live in BC for a school I'm your Canada so you guys can find me there and I just want to give a big shout out to all you guys for having me on thank you it was a dream come shooting on this podcast I watch you guys all the time I'll prep um and I just want to give a big shout out to my coach man in pettington my fiancee heart free and uh my sponsor mutants elevate uh both pack jet nor yeah look at you go yeah that's got a mom going well it was awesome having you on man and I'm I'm very grateful that we got to see a little more behind the scenes version because now I know you're a foodie in a dog guy and that's all I need when you're in BC dusty let me know you will eat absolutely yeah absolutely and I want to see those dogs more dog content a little more cowbell yeah exactly hey I'm excited to see this three-quarter back double on stage man oh yeah and tastic poser fantastic posing by the way like top-notch world-class poser um you know it's a lot of people need to watch the people who display their physics properly and um it's a great decision one more question dusty guy do you do any posing coaching I do I do you do you do you okay yes because I've got some classic guys and I was like I need to connect them with you but I didn't want to bother before the Olympia so I'll hit you up when it's done but that could be a game changer because I consider classic just a completely different thing they're like what you help me I'm like no yeah I mean yeah I mean honestly yeah sudden overreact now I love what I do is a job so it doesn't matter if I'm in prep and on in prep I'll get that classic bodybuilding I don't you meant to see you I'm sorry and I don't do any women's classes so it's just classic bodybuilding so I'm sorry yeah I'm a warrior you guy over the day for St. K. Dusty a bodybuilder who works what? and doesn't break for shows which by the way is my pet peeves a coach yeah my pet peeves people are about three weeks off I gotta shut up I'm a little nauseous today I don't know if you guys in a week I'm like if you put it up while you're sick don't know sorry so all right cool I'm gonna connect him with you today for sure that's awesome okay thanks Kelly Wilson everybody headed to his second Olympia three time pro show winner great to have you on the show man I'll see you at the gym okay you guys thank you guys please bye

Just my thought is David's kind of redundant to somewhat similar DHTs. If I were to add in, if I went with Mass in Test or Primo in Test, and then I wanted to add in a third compound, I would probably look to a different family, you know, be it a 19-nor or something that's going to be unique and different versus more of something that's going to be similar, you know? Yeah, I mean, there's a lot of popularity over here at the moment for Test Based with Mass in Primo. All three? Yeah, all three. Yeah. And I sort of see a little bit as Mass will tend to act like a swim rather than an AI, where Primo will act more like an AI, but at the same time, I get what you're saying as well, because there are two very similar compounds that have got very similar planes of oxygen and mechanism. What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I'm Scott McNeely, and all of our programming is brought to you by you. Thank you for the people from Patreon. You guys left us some questions that we're going to cover today. In fact, Dave, we've got about 30 questions. We're not going to be able to tackle them all. People missed you. You were away. You've been doing all sorts of education stuff. You just were, you couldn't even record yesterday when our normal day. What were you doing yesterday? Yesterday, I was talking at a conference at Birmingham, uni. I don't even know the title of the conference. But I was. So I actually did it sort of. It was supposed to be the coldest, a fast time chap, but it was me and a guy called Martin Chandler. OK. Now, Martin was the guy that really got me into formal hiring, we're talking about. I've already been doing stuff off me on back, but it was Martin that got me into the more academic stuff and the conferences and that sort of. So I've been asked about a guy called Professor Jim and Vey. I don't know what guy called Ian Broughton who's a professor of criminology. And we had a chat about criminology and antibiotics or the criminality of cannibalics. OK. And it was more to this quite a bit of research suggesting there's a link between antibiotics, drug users and committing offenses. I could think that. I mean, it's primarily sort of edged on people who take steroids commit offenses. And our take was no, it's more likely people commit offenses, take steroids. Yeah. So the thing is not to mistake usage with a driver towards criminality. And part of that was looking at right rage. I mean, no, I don't think anyone really, the thing is right away was very much immediate and it was coined out a meter exaggeration. And as a result, academia, particularly the harm reduction section within academia, sort of recoiled from that very strongly and as I know, it doesn't have it does not have. We now know that the truth is somewhere in the middle in the fact, yeah, there are always potential preceding factors, but there is so much anteluridence of people, paranoia jealousy within relationships for a primary around the use of trend. But there's a run-up like certain creates situations as well. And the other big area that seems to create situations is driving road rage. Oh, yeah. So the conversation was a lot. It's not that steroids create aggressive people, but there may be aggressive incidents that occur due to certain antibodies. Yeah. So you might get more of an over an action over something that would be normal for an individual because they're around antibiotics. And the big factors were domestic arguments and riding. But the other thing was that someone who's on antibiotics who's particularly focused that go into the gym, they're not communicating with their peers because they're there to get the job done, you know, headphones on head down, they're training hard. Yeah. Many people would perceive that as him being aggressive. Right. I go to him. Well, listen, listen. We got to move on. No, we got to get our questions started because unfortunately, we weren't able to hang out with you. We'd love for that. That's not going to be on liner anything is it? I don't. I honestly don't know. I had to turn it up 10 minutes before I was on stage. Did my base score 2015 minutes and then I have to fly. So it was all very rushed yesterday. And I'm just about catching up from the two experts back to back. But it's being a portion. Okay. Michael Nagler. I like him. He says I like Scott. How about that? Last is going to fall so count. Don't stop without rubbish. All right. Listen. First question. This is from YouTube. Guys, you did a great job. Leave us questions for the last for this episode on the last one. If you want to take part in the next show, then definitely comment below on YouTube or on Patreon. We've got a bunch of Patreon questions today too. We're going to start with this. What he says, he says, uh, uh, I love Dave's dry humor. I have a question for the next episode. Every compound that I've ever used other than test seems to give me painful back pumps to varying degrees. I tried to reen and balancing my electrolytes in the past. But it's never worked. Just wondered if Dave has any uninsight into this and what would help me? I suspect that, I mean, the normal go to it would be something my Tory, but I suspect that there's potentially more of a function ratio around hamstring flexibility in group tightness. There's just been an exaggerate. It's slightly when he goes on cycle, which is then aggravating a little about. So I would definitely look at running through hamstring flexibility, and make sure that he's good and the bloomability is good as well. Because if those two areas are tight, stress from just walking around gets driven up into the lower back. Yeah, I can buy my weight coming down into the lower back, that's the point with a two meat and that's the point where you start again, that's the back pump. So by ensuring you have good hamstring flexibility, that's planar. Clinically proven to increase Dave's aggression. I agree, completely. So, ensuring you've got good flexibility in the hamstrings and glutes will allow those muscles to move and take a little correctly and pulse of the tension out of the box. Yeah, yeah, I can see that plus we're oftentimes we've gone cycle we're training harder, right? So if you're going to get tight so as and QL stuff like that, it's more likely going to happen on cycle when you're training your hardest. Other thing I think is I noticed early on in cycling, I didn't have my nutrition as nailed as I figured out later and you got to really clean up that diet, you know, if you're holding a ton of extra water on cycle, I'd look at that diet first because I think that we tend to, you know, you are going to hold more water, you are going to retain more sodium, right? And I think that if you keep that diet cleaner, you're less likely to have those issues. You may find that you can avoid having those issues except for when you have a cheat meal, you know, I do think that and it may be even increasing fluids, you know, I wonder how much water he's drinking but can he drink more? Not that old, old, definitely potential contributions, yeah. All right, he's going to do iceman. I want as well. Is he in managing his estrogen legs on cycle? We're just going to keep going there. We'll just dive in here and see what else. Oh, yeah. So I've got one about the Huligans. So I'd love if we have time. Guys, Dave's on a boat today, by the way. We might not have time. We might have to cut this show quick because you got to move the boat. But regardless, yeah, we've got a question about the Huligans. People want to hear about them. What about Elkarnetine? Is there a specific place that you want to take at I.M. That is going to enhance its effects more than others. My quick answer is no. Like once you go, I am, it's going to basically just go systemic, right? Yeah, I agree. Without counting, I think there's two points of using it. It's pre-workout or AM faster for increased fat loss. I think that's pretty much it. And if you're doing it pre-something, I would probably be more tempted to go I.M. and sub-Q anyway, just so you know it's in. And it's in quickly, because sub-Q's just going to lay its absorption. But yeah, I don't think that it's definitely a buzz supplement at the moment. It bounced around for quite a long period. You know, there's something that I'm very, very popular. It's a pretty workout. I don't think there's a huge amount in it. It ended there. If you're nutrition is on point and everything else, you shouldn't eat anything else to increase energy levels on your training. But I don't know. I mean, I think that she smiled, guys. Yeah, I found that it helped me with energy levels, especially like dealing with the post-long bug deal. That was like the first thing I noticed that my cognitive function was better. And so I started using it for that. But I do think it helped with fat loss as well. Victoria is a big fan of it for females, looking for things that are going to be non-anabolic that can help people, especially women that are dealing with glucose regulation issues and stuff like that. She could get into something like that for sure. And it doesn't have to be as high as it used to be. Like we used to think you had to take 600. But I found like 300, 400 milligrams worked for me. I think one of the reasons that it's gotten so popular is because they've been able to suspend it in higher milligrams. Like we only used to get 200 milligrams per milliliter. But now with the amino place, they have 600 milligrams per milliliter. I'm not going to say the name of the amino place. I mean, I've used the alkaline in hard courts. And there's a, I mean, all right, it was dose to 1,000. But there's significant increase in energy levels from with the low calorie deficit with alkaline in place. Because obviously it's making that far much more valuable for users energy. So I think it really comes into its own. The cognitive positives of it are quite well known as well and quite well studied. But I do think I do really like it if someone's pushing hard on a low calories and getting to that point where they're struggling even though it for energy, even though it's still quite how it was a body for. Look at this nice little comment. Remembering Dave's health scare makes me that much more grateful that you guys, the work you guys do together here, thanks for us. From Crohn's Electricity. Hey, what was in this can? What was that? What was that? It's geared off to me, self and get away with it. You know what I mean, it just happened. Okay, oh, here's one for you. So several years later now, we still have people that are just now buying the movie under construction and uh, co-aboy. He says just watched under construction. Dave was an absolute freak. Next episode, can we get Dave's thoughts on pushing max calories when Balkan for pure muscle? I don't care about aesthetics. So the first thing is, I don't believe in dirty books. I've not done it myself. I've always kept my diet clean. I've quite happy to push through very, very high. But I do think it needs to be tight and straight. And I think a lot of people make a mistake in books because, particularly the competitive because they're pre-compared to so straight, that they tend to lax off a little bit in the offseason. It works for some people. Doesn't work for me. I'm naturally a fat bugger in the best of time. So I've always had to be super super tight even offseason with big calories. Having said all that, um, it's not a case of just taking shit loads of food for the sake of it. I know there's, there's been a popularity around the really old school sort of approach with the memory with some sort of pushing that sort of just the loads and train out. I think we'll get you so far. There's no denying you can still make progress in that. Yes, pushing for you guys. I think that that could be beneficial. Are you just need to start getting muscle on? No. In our instance, another example, in Usui, Tub's of ice cream in the offseason, as long as he was getting plenty of protein, and he wasn't too strict about anything else. Yeah. But the mantra, I can absolutely insane maniac. You know, he's, he's intensity in the gym, the duration of his workouts with that, and the calorie burn that he was producing while he was training was insane. So there's, there is an element of that, but I do believe in keeping offseason clean, and I also believe in diets being progressive. Yes. In the same year, if you will have progressive overload in the way you train, be it extra weight, about quite reps, more reps, whatever you choose for that progression to be, you need to be progressive with your diet. You don't want to be going from, you know, a 1500 or a 2000 maintenance, so I'm going to ball less than 4,000. You know, incremental. And just keep stepping it up and keep stepping it up. The thing is, what you've got to remember is you get big, your calorie maintenance increases. So if you're maintaining on 2000, you do a ball, can then you've got back to a maintenance of 2000, you're not going to support the structure of Bill. You should, massively be increasing your baseline calories each time you bulk, because you should be carrying more muscle mass and therefore need more calories to support it. Yeah, absolutely. Oh, you know, if you start up for maintenance of two and a 1000 calories and you spent three years progressively bulk it and get in bigger, you should be sort of 5,000, 5,000, 5,000 maintenance by the end of it. Otherwise, what's happened because if you're not growing and getting bigger and you're not needing more calories to support that, then there's something wrong with your progress. Yeah, so, you know, diet's always going to be progressive, it's always going to be relative to the individual. But yeah, I don't be scared of pushing food high, but I do really believe in keeping it clean. I think from most people that that's a big mistake they make off season. Good generally, naturally lean, you can get away with more shit without doubt. But at the end of the shit calories is shit nutrition, it's shit energy sources. It's not going to do anything any good long term. Yeah. If you're going to push hard and you're looking and maybe a two year off season, because you want to come back with some really extra size, then quality of diet is incredibly important, but don't be scared of pushing them. And I think some people ask out to, well, I think more than some people are scared to eat. And it's a case of, you know, you go up three four hundred calories, you monitor condition, if conditions are not worsening, conditions are still good. You can go up again, if conditions start to soften a little bit, you can even pull the calories back or you can hold until it was sort of progress catches up with where you are. And then push on again, but yeah, it's, you need to be progressive, both in training and food. I would agree with that a hundred percent. And I could say that one of the mistakes I made is that I was somebody who for a long time was extremely active. I could handle, I needed a lot of food in order to grow. It was basically a handicap because I was so active at work. And I would add in junk food on top of my food, but to a certain extent, it became counterproductive because it would slow my appetite down and make it harder to eat future meals. Not to mention, if you eat that stuff enough, you're looking at acid reflux, stomach issues. You know, no matter what, when you're pushing a lot of food, you're texting your digestive system. And then you add like two McDonald's and a medium fry and two medium fries and two apple pies. You start eating that every day, which I did on top of my food. You know, you start pushing your digestion. And although it didn't show up as body fit, I do think they did it. It had a negative effect on me in the long term. Now how about this week? Oh, sorry. I was trying to keep moving because we have so many. Let's up. Well, it's just going to say that you may not get fat, but it doesn't mean it's not coming in your health. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Exactly. In my HDL. My believe it or not, my LDL was fine, but my HDL was always in the crapper until I magically, when I came off, all of a sudden, I went back up to 40. I don't know how that happened. How about this? Can you do something on mast with premo? I can't find anything. Is there a reason for that? I responded to him in the comments. Just my thought is David's kind of redundant to somewhat similar to HDHTs. If I were to add in, if I went with mast in test or premo in test, and then I wanted to add in a third compound, I would probably look to a different family, and 19-nor or something that's going to be unique and different, versus more of something that's going to be similar. Yeah, there's a lot of popularity over here at the moment for test-based with mast and premo. All three. All three. Yeah, all three. Yeah. And I sort of see a little bit as mast will tend to act like a surm rather than an AI, where premo will act more like an AI, but at the same time, I get what you're saying as well, because of the two very similar compounds, so they've got very similar planes of action and mechanism. I mean, I'm not a big premo fan for off season. I think it's a nice compound for prep, but I think off season, it's just a bit too mild from a bite of you have actually encouraged in tissue, whereas mast is a little bit more aggressive on that front, so I think test-decker and mast is a lot of little compound for off season, if you wanted to do, you know, if you're edition in a premo level. Agreed. But yeah, you can start quite you one, and an increase in angregions is always to an extent yield a better result if everything else is on point. But the adulteration that those two compounds combine has on HDL, has me concerned long term. We still don't really know how impact in the low HDL is going to be long term, the research, why it's very inconfllusive. The only real relatable fact I have is that throughout all my bulky my LDL was left, because even though I had a ton of food, I used to boil my chicken and meat and strip a lot of fat out of it, and my actual food intake was very, very lean. The one thing I did to have and struggle with was low HDL, and I went with a block to artery, which is a cholesterol-based problem, so it wasn't a low-high LDL that actually was low HDL. So I do think that particularly in the levels that we see in animal abuse, there is a potential risk for high exposure to mass and premo, but having said that decent LDL management will go a long way to offset it. But there's plenty of guys where the LDL management isn't great, but this time in the master of premo, and there are ones that are potentially going to be struggling in five to ten years. That's the problem, it's five ten years down the line, and how do you reach it in ten years time, just something you get at ten years ago, it's difficult to do. I'm another fan. I've said all along that I like the right tool for the right job, and I don't like forcing compounds that aren't particularly designed to bulk with into bulking periods in the same way. I wouldn't actually look at using decarion of corp, you could do it, but I wouldn't naturally lean that way, like you wouldn't use debil in a cotton actually, because you're going to have more problems handling each other. I wouldn't naturally go to premo as a bulk in agent, because the doses you're going to be pushing to get any real major decent tissue effect from it are going to be quite high, where you could use half or a thread that doesn't just run negative. Yeah, and you're speaking more to a more advanced guy. Now that said, you know, a newer, less experienced guy, you know, maybe a load modest dose of premo and mass in test or just a modest dose of premo in test, you know, I agree with you, it's not the best builder, but if you've never taken anything before, or you only get a couple of things, anything. You're so corroborating. Yeah, so I just want to be clear though, because you're talking about guys that are in the game already, I would agree with you 100%. I don't see premo or mass as being especially beneficial mass builders. I don't believe that all that all steroids are created and equal. I don't think that I think there's been some miscalculations in that. There's no questions. Yeah, go ahead. Nice. I know the mechanisms of actions are all very similar, but that's where I think it ends. There is some very strong differences between different compounds. If it wasn't, then I mean you're going to have a look at the industry. There's no shortage of mass monsters from the 80s and 90s when testing deck, it was very, very popular. Yeah, yeah. You're still probably a big fool in 28290, 300 pound guys, I'm in our stage. Yeah. Anyway, I would say this too. The only time I would consider really adding to DHT's is in a contest prep and it wouldn't be for the whole thing. And that kind of ties into our next question. Hey, what's off guys? I have a lot of people who reach out to Man irregular basis who are trying to more effectively reach their goals. One of the biggest mistakes I see people make is that they're not getting enough protein. And there's only so much chicken breast we can eat through the day, but we can easily add a high quality protein supplement to boost those numbers. Triniatrician has just about every protein powder you can think of from high quality weight isolate. If you don't tolerate lactose, then you can use their beef isolate. Or you can use their pea protein isolate if you don't eat animal products. I literally have everything you can think of. I believe in them for like a decade before they advertised with us. And they never went out of their way to say like, hey, we want to promote our stuff through you. I literally asked them because it's a company that I believe in and at the end of the day, I want to see you guys reach your goals as effectively as possible. So if you use our code, thank you Triniatrician, you'll get some savings, you'll help to support our programming and you'll get some high quality products to more effectively reach your goals faster. By the way, guys, you noticed I'm not putting these up on the screen. I think putting them up on the screen has been not helpful for our ability to monetize the show. So I'm just going to read them. He says, um, close for the next show. Hi, boys. Love the show. Glad to see you back in airing on YouTube. Um, so needing help for a prep cycle, competing in September for the first time. He says, I'm not new to gear and have a few cycles under my belt. Uh, he says, I still don't want to go crazy. He said, what are your thoughts on this? So 400 testy, 1 to 16 weeks. Uh, then 700 pre-mo 1 to 16 weeks, then adding in a little bit of witty at 25 every day, 7 through 12 and then adding in a trend A at 300 per week, 9 through 12. I would assume what, so he's saying he's doing a 16 week plan, but then he's only going to run the win in the trend for for up to week 12. I wouldn't do that. I would run those compounds all the, I would run them all the way into the show. Uh, but you share your thoughts Dave and I'll tell them what I think too. Is he, is he's comprap? Yeah. Yeah, cop prep first contest. I would definitely leave the trend and winning to the back end. Um, personally, I probably only running for the last four five, maybe. Both of those compounds? Yeah, I probably start the trend of week five weeks out, bring the winny into the three weeks out. I don't think winning is particularly long, particularly if you lean. Um, I think it'll have a nice effect from the two and three weeks out. Um, you could even it's it's very old school to drop in jectables now, run into a show and it is also very European. Um, but if you can send about lumps and bumps and things like that, then obviously you could drop your injectables a week out, run in just on the winny. Um, but yeah, I don't see the reason for having it, sort of in the middle almost and then pulling it back out again. Right. Right. Um, I'd also be a little bit concerned of a potential rebound issues from, um, eastern general, progesterone because obviously windstalls going to lower progesterone, um, and it's anti-esogenic as well. And you've got a sort of active unaboying, AI in there and then you pull it out. Um, you may get a little bit of rebound going into the last few weeks, which is far from ideal. So I would definitely run them at the back end into the comp. Um, I think the main difference between me and you is that you would probably run them slightly longer than me. Um, but a lot of that depends on where he is conditionness of wise as well. You know, if he's not quite on point where he needs to be, then you could bring him in a little bit earlier. Um, he's only going to help, but, uh, yeah, I mean a lot would depend on how he's sitting condition wise as to if compound times would extend a lot. Yeah. Okay. So here's what I would do a little bit different. He's got the 400 testy 700 pre-mo 25 every day wind and the trend at 300 a week. Those are both like quitting at 12 weeks, like 7 to 12 and 9 to 12. Personally, I would do 400 tests 400 pre-mo keep it at like a 1 to 1. I think that works really nice personally. And then from there, the trend might go in at six weeks out, run it for the last six. And then the the wind would go in at about four weeks out and I probably take that a little bit higher. So, and by the way, trying to do 50 every other day. So less than he's suggesting. And the wind's surely might go a little bit more like 50 every day, something like that. Just for the last three to four weeks. But I run those things all the way in. We're kind of crescendoing into the show. And really it's all going to be about your your ability to get in contest shape. The condition is really the key that these compounds are not going to make a difference. You could you could really get rid of everything and just do the test and then add some wind strill in for the last four to six weeks. And that would honestly be enough for your first show. Like the guys you're going up against at a state level show, you can get absolutely peeled and barium if you're in good enough shape, guarantee it with just those compounds. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, the only thing I probably change possibly is bringing three more ups, like towards the end and possibly even dropping the test down a little bit just so you've got a more eastern generation suppression set up the otherwise yet. Yeah, I would definitely see where we're at estrogen wise a little ways in and then make some decisions off of that. And maybe again then maybe again toward the end, you know, and see, hey, do we want to make any calls to change? But really, I feel like if we're looking good and we're getting the look we want at that one to one, I'm going to try to change as few things as possible. Because I don't want to risk throwing things off. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. I'm saying I'm saying that there's always the question is it, yeah, I look good. Would I look better if I did this? So yeah. And that's where I have an approach really comes in handy because in our own heads, we're always like, yeah, I always want to shoot for a little bit more. But, you know, of course, the Cito said, I'd rather bring guys in at 97%, 95% to 97%, any day of the week. Because if you shoot for a hundred, you're either going to get a hundred or you're going to get a 105, which is spilled, you know, or bad in some way, you know. All right, good. All right. How about this one? Andrew says, and this is from Patreon. He says, question for the DNS podcast. We'll let you guys figure out what that stands for. Because we don't say it anymore. Anytime, I get above 1.5 grams, told a gear, I have an increase in water intake to nearly double just to stay hydrated. Hydration electrolyte intake is normally on point. Never any problems when on lower doses. But when I get to that 1.5 gram point, plus I'm getting dehydrated every hour or so if I'm not consistently taking in a lot of water, currently on 875 tests, 700 masks, and for you growth every day, just curious what the mechanisms would be behind this, or should I just deal with it? Should I deal with it? It happens my last several cycles. So couple of questions, I'll get on to the mechanism why I'm genuinely aren't sure. I've got a couple of potentials to answer it. But it could be more into cellular water. It could be an increased body temperature resulting in more low level sweat in which is resulting in more fluid loss. I honestly aren't sure. What I'm curious about is, what see, why does he think he's hydrated? I mean is this something he's physically measured with a blooddeny scene, sodium adulterations, and stuff like that, or is this just going on because he feels thirsty, or what is gating that he feels is dehydrated? I mean it's no doubt, there's anabolic to go up body temperature rises, and as food consumption goes up body temperature rises as well, and also as food consumption goes up water transit with glycogen is going to increase as well. So there's definitely a few factors that could contribute to the more fluid. Being exactly dull or as extreme as this sounds, I find a little bit bemusing. I'm not for a minute saying he's not wrong, I just curious as to what the exact details are of what experience is to come to conclusion that he's dehydrated at that rate and needs that amount of extra fluid. And it's his urination increasing when he's up in the fluid because if he's up in his urination is not increasing, then that water's going somewhere. Is there is an eastern gym impact here where he's actually holding water more? So it's not actually getting into the cell where he wants it, and it's sitting subterently. Is that going on? Is that what's happening with the fluid? I mean you can hold water, it's actually being dehydrated still because your electrolyte balance is interacting and not just pushing the fluid into the way he wants it. So there's this thing like that, it's his electrolyte increasing with the water. So that he's making use of that extra fluid or not. So there's I've got more questions and answers unfortunately. Yeah, could it be something kidney related? Is there any kind of additional stress that could be happening? Yeah, because I don't know. The reason I'm not able to depend on compounds and things like little pressure and stuff like that, but if these kidneys were, if these kidneys were starting to struggle, and it's definitely an area worth looking at, then you would see water retention, which is not reported in what he said. That doesn't mean it's not happening, but I'm assuming because he's not mentioned he's getting water attention, he's not there. But is there an increase in frequency of your donation? But as always this goes in this, I don't have anything unfortunately. I just got a lot of little things that my heart helped us. Blood sugar can cause more hydration or more thirst. I'll say. Well, thirst, that's it. It's not dehydration. It's not thirst and that. Is that, is there something there? That's why I was saying, easy dehydrated or easy just that? Yeah, that was the point I was trying to make. You know, easy genuine dehydrated or easy just feeding fist. Yeah. How about this one? Look at that comment. Love the show, please do your cardio on cold day. You're talking about how you had been really busy and you had gotten away from doing your cardio. So, you know, the thing is, I mean, with come down here, I'm still working in the office. I've still working full time, but if I'll ask a bit about it, I've just found out that I've missed an appointment, I was supposed to do a console, missed somebody else yesterday, and obviously I'm not there on the internet. So, I'll be sheet. But, um, yes, I, um, surgery is in two weeks on the fifth of April, um, on that I can't move my left arm above Parallel for six to eight weeks for me. So, um, and for the first week, I can't remove the dressing. So, there will be anything happening that week, and then I'm opening it back on it. Okay. Well, we'll all look forward to seeing you recover. You haven't really talked much about this procedure or anything on the show that was all off the year. So, people didn't really know that you were doing it. Oh, yeah, I thought I had, uh, basically I'm having a nice e-d-fitted, which is a bit like a pacemaker and an auto-de-fib. So, it has two shock mechanisms. One is a rhythmic adjustment, and one is a full-blown boom, as you'd get a facet of panels. Um, each more in because of future measures rather than immediate needs. So, the general idea we're going to stick it in now while I can cope with it very, very easily rather than be trying to fit it when I'm six-yod, and potentially have been problems in that as the e-d-fitted itself. It's only a dead case so many in there for five, six, so it was not a bunch of, uh, I am quite limited movement-wise for the period of time after it's with my left arm, because I have a machine that's been dropped into my left pack with a wire running straight into my arm. Hmm, it doesn't sound like fun. Oh, uh, apparently the full-winded fire. All right, how about this one from Jim McDonnelldown Patreon? He says, I've had some really crazy dreams lately, mid-cycle. Is that pretty normal? Do know how much other Steve's taking? Oh, we can't say words like that, Dave. Why no? Because YouTube doesn't like YouTube doesn't like those words. All right, I'm gonna go. That's that. There they go. That must be what this content is about. Bam. Well, no, because of course it is, all right. Well, how much psychostimulating compounds, but administrative, no. Um, yeah, it's, you get an increasing brain activity through an avoidce. This can manifest in several ways. A common one is obviously anxiety, paranoia, that's all the stuff. But we're also, you can change the way you dream and transgotten reputation for giving people incredibly vivid dreams. And it's just, fact that you know, our an activity is stimulated by the un avoidce and it changes, you know, the chemical signal in your brain. And only that, but how active it is as well. So it affects things. I mean, a lot would depend on the compounds you were using as well. Yeah. All right. So we talked a little bit about, uh, Andrew, and he just gives me, Andrew, and receptors in fact, the other week. A question regarding the fat, Andrew, and receptor. He says, he says, I read that the number of cells that actually store fat don't get less in number. They just shrink. So, uh, gas would be that the AR in the cell, that we, was he saying here? My guess would be that AR would be in cell and not the stored fat. I mean, by that, do you mean like, so, so he, I think I get what he's saying that you have the same number of fat cells, whether they're bigger, small. But if you get more fat, the more fat you get those cells do replicate. You will get more fat cells. Yeah. There's those fat cells doing Tracy. Yes. Yeah. And there are the RAS and compounds that will actually remove fat cells. Um, like label section, well, that's not a compound. But you literally get rid of fat. Wherever you, you get that done, you know. Um, so first thing is to understand how compounds are receptors sort of engage with each other. Okay. So the undergen almost along and it will go into a cell engages with the receptor, uh, deposits, signal. And then it comes out of the cell. It can then go into another cell. It can then go attach to a room and sit and convert to estrogen. It can get attached to a HPG or albumin. It can do a new as things once it's converted to estrogen. It can then go in and attach to an ER or it can attach to a CPSBG again and get moves somewhere else. So this is a continual flow of compounds, hitting receptors, releasing from receptors, hitting secondary receptors, or changing through an aromatized process or changing because of five alpha reductase into DHT. And then here, another reset. So you know, an undergen just going to receptor plug-in, do its job and that's the end of it. It comes back out and it will continue to operate until it dies. So when you have more active fat cells and I'm not 100% on the mechanisms that play here so I know that there are areas in fat cells and I know undergen receptors can be attracted to them. Sorry, undergen's can be attracted to them. But I believe as fat cells diminishes they sort of co-absed. The engagement process becomes much more difficult because you've got a cell which has actually been deflated. It's no longer fat and bouncy and you know, and it quite literally becomes difficult for it to enter the cell. So that's why leaner people need less antibiotics and respond better. But I mean, a lot of antibiotics medically are dose body weight-wise to an extent. Basically, when you look at stuff like anodrol and how that's dose for that's dose of migranvequila, in children, this line of high-dose and females and adults. So there's a lot of antibiotics are dose per kilo weight because that's how they want the effect to work. It's something that blood ricks still believes in across the body of antibiotics, mean not so much. But definitely someone carrying higher body fat levels is not going to have the same response of somebody of a leaner, even if then muscle mass was equal. Because somebody antibiotics are taking, they're not going to get used up by the fat but there isn't going to be as much availability for the ARM muscle. Because somebody's going to be tied up in the fat for a bit of something for a brief period of time. So it isn't a case of it doesn't fact in the states there. And as fat cells collapse and disrinct, I'm assuming on this one I must admit, but I believe that the accessibility then to the AR is compromised as some extent. And it's constantly a renewal process, you know, they're in and out, they moved to some finals. I mean you could have a testosterone into the bloodstream enter a muscle cell. Enter the AR, do this even come back out, get picked up by a rheumatoid, concertoeestrogen, don't go into an ER, link them back out, link it picked away a sage, bg, take to them about the body and then die. Body could convert to G, and then go back into another receptor as DST. So there's only things going on all the time. It's a very busy eye way when it comes to the movement of this stuff. I think a lot of people think it goes in, it walks in and that's it, it's don't it's like putting into a stocket and that's nothing else happens. And it's not the case, it is constantly moving on flow. I had one more serious question here, I think, and then we had some fun stuff. Somebody asked me, they said, Scott, I know that you've trained guitarists before. Have you ever trained a drummer? Are there any exercises I should do or avoid? And he says, edit, are there any injuries that I should watch out for as a drummer? Love the show, keep up the great work. I thought that was an interesting question. I can't think of anything Dave that I would do differently. I can't tell you this, I feel like in the band, any band, the drummer is always the jacked guy. The drummer is the guy that has the sleeveless T-shirt on, you can see his biceps while he's doing his thing. Versus, you know, across the board, most of the time that doesn't include some of your more jacked people. Kevin Le Veroni was a, a guitarist, singer and belief. And Glenn Danzig was a big guy, Henry Rollins was a big guy and they weren't drummers, but I think your drummers are usually the more jacked guy. I honestly, all I can think of is that you would have a lot of repetitive use. I could see there being like four arm, elbow, tendonitis issues like that from drumming. And I just feel like, it just want to look out for that, but there's nothing in particular, I would say, oh drummers need to do this. You know what I mean, Dave? Yeah, I would probably say that four arm stress management is where you're going to be thinking and potentially just stuff like you might need to be a bit more reliant on straps and grips when you train in so that you don't overwork for them, then becomes an issue when you're drumming. I suppose that could be something. The other thing is he's possibly down to your level of experience. That's a very good point, random port growth. Yeah, I don't think that was going to work very well in a drumming environment. Yeah, I would say maybe like, if you feel like you're getting some sort of development, ball drumming, maybe think about the opposite muscles. For those of us that sit in a desk all day, we get a tendency to hunch over like this. And everything kind of tightens up and if you have good muscular church, those packs and even if you don't, your packs are going to get tight. They're going to pull you forward. They're going to roll your shoulders forward so that you're standing there like the monkey look with when your hands are forward. Your hands should be like this when you relax, not forward like that. So we want to make sure that like, you know, being able to first stretch the packs number one, that's going to alleviate a lot of shoulder issues, back issues. But then also strengthening your upper back will help to pull you into a neutral posture. So if you're doing anything repetitive, I would look at how is that affecting your physique and muscular church and what can you do? That's the opposite of that, the opposite muscles to kind of keep you in balance. That'd be my idea. I thought, you know, Dave, we we'd had a fun one, we wanted to hear you told us a long time ago. It's been a while. We want to know about the Hooligans. The soccer, excuse me, the football Hooligans of the UK. In fact, I remember you had a story that you told a long time ago. I can't remember what it was, but I had to do with like a bar fight. Well, I don't think that is prevalent as they used to be, but that there was as much as there was a football league. There was a Hooligan league linked to the football teams. Okay. And certain football teams were notorious for having extremely violent fans, Millwall being one of them. We were particularly now for being violent. Broughford, reference C was never a high division football team, but they were a very high division who begins what? And these, these would schedule events. So on on match day, they would have ranged to me at a certain location and be the 10 balls of living snott out each of them. And it was surprisingly well organized and yet to away from the police as much as possible. I mean, obviously it spilled over into matches themselves at a time, but it was very often and particularly as clamped downs became more severe in people's tagging, banned from football grounds because of who the gannison. They would range distance from the ground and literally having arranged war. Between like, I like this particular, I'm an essay sacker, okay? Because when I say football, all I think of as American football. So I'm sorry guys, anybody on the UK has the Millwall supporters against the Arsenal supporters. Yeah, so these are, you know, guys that are for one soccer team, they're like, I like this team, these other guys are like, I like this team and then they're like, let's have a bloody battle and beat each other up to the pole. They were brutal. They learned just a few swaps. I mean, they were getting one and both of that. I think it's past its peak now. I know when we went into Europe with the football, I think it's the pole, some of the Polish teams, they were next level with who the gannison. And we start, we actually start, I'm going to say I think it's calm down a lot over the last decade, but I do remember there'd be an elite fun being killed. Oh, really? In a football league and clash. And I mean, there's been definitely several guys, you know, hospitalized over the years. But I know, I think it was a Turkish football team that leads, if I'm got killed on. And literally every Turkish football shop in Leeds should have, because they went on the rampage, really, really, really smash it up every Turkish above shop, they could find, oh my god. It was brutal stuff. I mean, they did think nothing of throwing missiles, not actual missiles, but like bricks and stones and stuff. They're posing fans' coaches and when there's Ashwin's Queens went through, people got bricks in their head. Weapons became quite common at the peak of it. It was incredibly fun, but there was also a hard call sort of call to it where they were almost quite straight with what they would allow another round. And they were, you know, they would meet or they would fight, but there'd be limitations in the fact that it would only be their face or whatever it was. But there was not limitations and I wish that they'd do this as somebody. Here's a picture I found, I have some wholegins, look like they're just like tearing everything up here. They were, I think they were like England fans, England had a very bad reputation overseas. Oh, really? Yes, so much so that there was, there was a lot of people found from Trifelin. I've seen that, I've seen where there's like pictures in there, like these are the faces of people that were banned. Like it like this, it says football wholegins banned from every UK stadium and after pre-match brawl outside of pub and it shows these four gentlemen. Yeah, this is like people. I could see Dave's picture in this. Could you guys see Dave in this? Let's people that have received lifetime violence from football grounds. They can never go and watch the scene, this is all ever again. So did you have a story in particular? I want to say there's something about like bar towels or something like that. I can't remember what it was. Didn't you tell me a story of working at a bar pub and you knew the wholegins were coming or something like that? I'd have to take way back. I'd have to listen to like every episode, but you work. I can't remember what I used to work in a cotton pier. It's half of England. Okay. Plants and the sea side result. A collection pair used to do all night raves and to get to the pair you went down like a road that became a little short bridge onto the pair itself. It was like a big, not quite a carpark, but there was a big area from the L'API, and there was all these doors for access onto the pair. I remember Millwall decided they were going to call in on the way back from a match and the police that were focused. So they let the Millwall coach come down to the pier and then they close the road off behind the coach and then just left the olders dormant on the pier to deal with them in the water. The police just sat there and watched as old Elbromans. Wait, what do you mean they closed the road? The police didn't want to have to deal with the Millwall funds. So they let the coach in. So they let the coach come down the road to the pier and pull off, let the Millwall funds get off the coach, but then they close the road at the top so they couldn't get out and left it for all the dormant and five in the Millwall funds. Oh wow. And because they didn't want to bother with it. So if I let the dormant soften them up a bit and then we'll go in and clean up the mess. Yeah, yeah. Geez. But yeah, I've had a few space over the years. It's Bradford used to be quite violent. The roughest, roughest city here the guns were where the football team was absolutely garbage, but they were looking to work quite next level. Now, if you saw who will again, would you know it? Like, because I feel like some some are very obvious, but they're not necessarily. What would be like the standard stereotypical look of a who look in? How right back then? I mean we're going back a bit. So that would be rock porches, Stone Island, jumper. Stone Island, they would be the sort of clothing code. Bench German shirts, that sort of thing. Do these guys look like Williams? Let's see. Level like a bunch of knobs, probably for the glitches. It says how the Hulligan style ended up in hipsters Instagram. So I guess that's probably true. No, they look like they were not real who will again. Yeah, it was definitely a sudden fashion trend. Oh yeah, they have like a burberry add. This is a burberry add and it says that like Hulligan culture influenced this clothing line. Yeah, potentially. Yeah, I mean they were quite organized. It wasn't random, you know, I mean they were quite organized. I had a friend who was in Ireland. And she said you weren't allowed to wear tennis shoes into the pub. Back when she went, this would have been like 2000. Oh, there are a lot of the folks created breastcobs. The thing is, as when you were still in the door, and a group of labs came up, you, you didn't want to mean obviously, but you didn't want to directly confront them. So you're not coming in because you're a bunch of rats. Yeah. So you've Ryan Hughes rules that were their establishments rules that you knew they would accept. So one of them was looking at my train. It's made all we don't have our sportswear, you know, and stuff like that. You were refusing them because of something they done that was an acceptable rule rather than saying we're not letting you in, because you look a dick. Yeah. Because then they got personally insulted by here, and obviously that create friction. So there was a lot of us created dress codes to keep a certain look or style of person out with the venue. Well, we went to beddies. We were tennis shoes, and they let it, we were, you know, sneakers. They let us in. Well, that's changed in the last 15 years. I mean even I remember clubs in 20 years ago, I was starting to run out of trainers in. Because the big argument was that training in jeans in a lot of cases costs four times more than the shoes and trousers that somebody else was wearing. Oh, yeah. Any more? Yeah. I mean, the thing wasn't, you know, it required intelligence to assess someone as a person before you let them in the venue, which wasn't always that readily available amongst the dominant. So if you gave them a set of rules that were black and white, they could follow those quite easily without having to use any common sense. That makes sense. All right. Well, listen, do you have any Uncle Dave's wisdom? People of people who sometimes tune in just to hear your wisdom, Dave. They want to know what you think. Yeah, don't arrange for meetings and then not be that, because then you know, can be dick enough to ring open a apologize. That's good. That's a really important one. I'm a bit sure this week as a bird. I think that is a fair, fair advice though. I'm going to say that. At the moment, these last two weeks have been so hard to take. I'm literally forgetting where I'm going and what I'm doing. Are you getting caught up yet though? Yeah, I think I'm going to about 15 reports. This is the first week I've done clients and actually being on time with them. Yeah. But I've got about 15 reports to do, but I've got to answer more to get them cleared. And then I've got a big core report to do, but that's being put back. So I've got a bit more time about what? Is that the same court case that you're there where like, ampute, there was amps and vials like about lots of them? No, no, that one's still not done the paper without that's gone. This is another one that they've come back and more and have it in some secondary report. Okay. Interesting. No, no, it's not. I mean, they want me to reach through 33,000 pages of foam data. Oh, God. Why you? You're the the antibiotics guy. You're not the foam data guy. I'm going to read the data and look for antibiotics. There's not fucking this one. Why don't they put that in like a text file where you can then just like search terms versus have it? Yeah, well, they do a lot of that, but the problem with that is you you often miss a lot of stuff because if me knew we're talking about something of that nature, we may reference the compound of one point, but a lot of the conversation we probably would just talk in general. Right, because we need to talk in about so we won't keep saying and the testosterone and the needs to be this and it's this price and I can get it from you know, you won't say that in every sentence, would you say once that we can be a conversation and never say it again? Yeah, that's it. So you've got to really read them but I need to have a chat with him and see what they want to do with this because did they want me to read through 33,000 pages? They are going to be paying a lot of money. Yeah, yeah and how was the Arnold? Because we haven't seen you since then. You had the Arnold and then after that you had literally another expo like two Wednesday, I think, or something. So you had to choose, yeah, Tuesday, when we normally record. So yeah, so the Arnold's from a point of view of the next one I thought was very good. Okay. There were a few screw-ups in the broad aspect, remember a few stands that had a few problems with their location being moved or each fuse around some aspects of the show, but in general the athletes were there, the stars were there. It was, I thought very good from that point. From a sales point of view it wasn't the strongest, Friday was good, Friday was actually very good Friday. Saturday was okay and Sunday was absolutely terrible. I think the biggest problem we had was Sunday was that where we were located there was no reason for people to come down that end of the expo because it was nothing going on, event wise down but look who Dave got to meet. Yes, I met just in Rome. I think they were as much as like why are we taking a picture with these guys I was, but they probably thought that you were like just a fan, you know, you're like, yeah, possibly. Yeah, you're possibly. Yeah, you brought the camera to like, why is this man holding a stuffed animal? Let's just take a picture with him. Yeah, like kind of like you did, they did you a favor, I think. But you know, there was from from our standpoint of you the visual the standard self wasn't great because it was just a child standard. But the visual engagement was really good. I mean Jesse James West interviewed us on the Saturday. Okay. That was supposed to be a third minute interview ended up being like an hour and a half and then he came then he came and spent a couple of hours on the stand and he interviewed Nathan again, interviewed Jussleur, interviewed Ramanna and obviously he'd use Zach and then we split him the stand in two of the top stare degree searches in the UK. Remember the guy that did the episode with us when he was looking at muscle memory and yes that's awesome. He came to the stand and he brought another guy who's doing a book on on anabolic's not so much a technical book more just a book looking at the use and lifestyle and that sort of stuff. Yeah yeah. Well they were under central Wales as well so they got interviewed by Jesse too. So yeah it was it was a really good vibe in that way. Staff seems to really enjoy it. We seem to have a good time with the staff. The four mechs was a lot different. We were doing the first day. There was some mixle with what we were supposed to be doing time wise so we ended up working 7 till 10 Wednesday, 7 till 10 Thursday and 7 till, well it was supposed to be one in a morning but we got away about midnight on Friday. You mean 7 in the morning just to be clear until 10 a day. And then we drove through the night to get back so I could get a van back for a rate of what Saturday morning because the higher place had it going back out the next day so we had to get it back so so that was a bit tired. I actually enjoyed before and actually it was quiet in the sense of noise. Yeah could talk. Instead of talking to an end user you were talking to a gym owner or you talking to some of their own 40 gyms or you were talking to another business and so it's a lot harder to gauge how they event when because it's probably going to be two three months before we see the results of those conversations. Yeah yeah that makes sense. It gave me a lot of food for thought about what we want to do moving forward and what we're going to do if we do anything moving forward. So it was very positive in that sense but very tiring. But yeah I mean that I think both events were quite good in a way and we've just just pretty much finished designing the new snond so that should be getting me soon. That's going to be for me. Yeah you see I know you didn't bring the the big tent as I call it the bounce house you didn't bring that to the Arnold because it was just too it took up too much space. You did have Jamie the giant there he is I heard he is an absolute celebrity in the UK now. He did and so Jamie came down a stand on Sunday obviously he's got a lot of financial obligation to a lot of sponsors now so he popped down it wasn't for long at 10, 15 minutes or so but I was just glad he could make it to be honest. But what to let how really well as Jamie is on the stand diamond is one of the other glad he actually has six up to last I mean she really is a tall last. She was wandering past saw Jamie to came over to the stand so we ended up with two gladiators for one on the Sunday which worked out really really well. That's but in the Sunday from sort of one o'clock onwards where we were was dead. Yeah okay it was just yeah it was crap. But I found a new swore which I think I might have to tell you cook. What's that? medieval fighting. Oh I could totally see you doing that. I could totally see you in your wife could practice in the backyard or on your barn. Yeah you guys just get on the roof of the barn and do it. It's nuts. It's absolutely these these fucking lunatics dress up in the armor. They they're just the old Arnold too. Just be the living shit out of each other. Yeah yeah. I saw we saw one guy walking out like holding his head you know. He was like oh. How do we from what we know there was one broken leg? One severed finger. Several inches. When they just smashing ten balls of shit out of each other and he's legal it's like I love this and a five this is a broken division as well. You could totally do that Dave. We got to get your cardio up a little. Yeah but they were saying they were so on the Sunday they were doing 12 or 12. Basically they all got just to get the other guy. So it was 24 people just brain. Yeah that's amazing. Yeah I didn't see it happening but I saw it at the Arnold I saw all the guys dressed up in the stuff in the garden. Like I said I saw one guy walking away holding his head walking out of the expo holding his helmet down to decide he looked like he took a good a good whack to the head. I wonder if there's weight classes or would they put up like a big guy like you against a 160 pound guy? There's male female but over the knot that's it. So Dave you could go against like three guys and you take like a big a big hammer. You've got the hammer already. Bring that hammer and just clear them all in one smack. Honestly it's just mental. I've never seen anything quite like in my life. I said to the guys and someone's the role just as you can't get a hitman in those. He said you can't stop them in the neck. Yeah no no no no. It's just about it. It's out. And I think that's a little safer than the slap fighting. At the Arnold they were doing slap fighting and man those guys really pack a wall up. I'd seen pictures of a dude whose face was like permanently like and paralyzed due to slap fighting. That's that stuff's a mass man. There wasn't any of that but yeah it was I actually enjoyed it. I think it's suffered a bit because of previous shows not being as it was supposed to be. Okay but I think this one is to establish that you know the he's now I'm all running there and they are going to do it right and it's going to be the right people turning up. I mean you know Ronnie was there. Phil Heath was there. Some sort of was there. Obviously you're a process was there. I was there. Yes. How do you shop on? For what? Yeah. Well West Vs and another one who's on their team I'm not sure who that guy was. Obviously it was Jamie. Miss Olympia was there. Yeah yeah. You know there was there was a lot of people and a lot of big names more than we've known. It's out a lot of American rounds that we would only see as well. Yeah America I think the US took an interest and at the mutant booth Ron told me the number one question they got is where's Scott so I'll be seeing you at the Arnold next year. I hope not too but you know it's a small I'll not come I'll won't come over I'll be like a I have obligation to mute. I don't know it was terrible for us I don't think we're going to do it again. Oh really? Well you'll have to well have to connect when we are another and Victoria and I want to come out no matter what like this we she's getting things finished up and when she does we are making a grand tour we want to go to the we'll start in southern England and then we'll travel up do a bunch of stuff in northern England and then she wants to go to Edinburgh, Scotland as I know your wife does too so you may not have a choice to hang out with me we might all be going to Scotland together. Well bring your Alma. Yeah yeah we'll practice in the backyard. Alright guys we appreciate everybody for tuning in thanks for watching Trinutrition.com use our code think for additional savings supplement sourced.ca for Canadians, Strom, Sports, Nutrition we don't have a code for them but if they have like a little note thing where you can add notes to your order what should they say Dave? Oh Richard's tone is back. Oh you're kidding me. He was doing so good. Yeah probably try again some sweets or five year old and she told his Alma. Oh god well I have to ask him about that and of course thank you everybody for Patreon. He was doing some content work some content film and they were grappling and apparently there's one of it baked on. Oh geez guys for another episode. Oh you develop a lot of analysis.com go there get your library done by Dave. We're gonna sit. We're hoping Aberdeen actually can doing some of our and the grind city show. Oh really Aberdeen Washington great it's really cool. Oh a different Aberdeen okay. Yes the real Aberdeen not the copy what? Alright guys thanks for tuning in we'll see you soon. Question for the next show leave them.

It's all about obviously matching what you're doing the gym with how much you're eating and what you will have where you are in terms of obviously you prep and how even loaded or how flat you will be at that given time. Yeah. Now my compound work is generally going to sit anywhere between 8 to 12 maximum 15 reps. In a contest prep I actually bring my repetition ranges down slightly because again, because you don't have the fuel coming in to be able to facilitate higher rate range work. Okay. Yeah. We all know that higher rate range work requires a lot of glycogen, right? If you are already flat and you are limited on a amount of glycogen that you have, doing sets of 15 on a compound movement makes absolutely no sense because you just don't have the energy to be able to facilitate that work. Hey, what's up guys? Welcome back to Think Big Body Building Media. I'm Scott McNaly and back with me is Kuba Chellen. You guys enjoyed that last episode. So we're back. We've got a whole topic today. Kuba is going to lay it on you and we've got a couple listener questions. We've got a training review at the end. If you guys have any questions that you want to have on the show, we're not going to make it like a big Q and A show. But we're cool. Take it a few questions plus you guys commenting in all that stuff. It definitely helps us to boost the show up. So thank you for all your comments. Kuba, they came up with like 500 names for the show for us. I think I should see that and I was impressed. So some great suggestions. But we have still more than happy to take suggestions and we'll let Scott the producer. They kind of broke the name for the show. And then we can go with that. It's funny because back in the day, like you needed a name when you had an audio only podcast. And now people can care less. They just want to see like I have you be pro shares trading secrets. You know, it's all they care about. You know what I mean? Like to get more views. But people know it's up. They see the name. They see your name. And they know that we're talking about training. I think that that it's pretty self-explanatory. So listen, what are we going into today, man? Oh, my, it's an exciting one because today we're actually going to call the training to match your fuel intake. And this is one of a deep dive on understanding what training application you need to take. Different stages for your offseason and prep. Okay. And that's it's in part you're you're starting to die at now. So this is something that's getting really important to you, right? Yes. So I'm actually kind of that's exactly what I'm told about. 16, 17 weeks out. Whatever weeks out I am competing this year and I'm in constant spread. I don't know how many weeks out exactly there. I'm because I've kind of just been stuck into the prep and things are moving well. So I'm not really counting out the weeks. It's just more so about day to day for me. But training on Contest Pratt and matching your fuel intake with training. Now a lot of people probably wondering what do I mean by matching your fuel intake with the training? It's very simple, right? Your training should be reflected by whether you're in a calorie deficit or a calorie surplus. So your training will change all the time as you descend back into a deficit. So the certain methods that you will use in a calorie surplus that allow you to have productivity in certain situations when your fuel intake is higher. So when your code is higher, that in essence will facilitate certain types of training and extensions and intensifiers. So I think we need to start from the very very very bottom and we need to call that off season training and also fuel intake. And what it means having more calories in an off season and what it actually allows you to do in the gym, right? Okay. When you are in a calorie surplus naturally to a point, you will have better recovery ability on the gym floor. Now being in a calorie surplus, you will have an abundance of glycogen in your muscle. So you should never be in a place in an off season where you are flat and you don't have pretty much burst in burst in an ounce of glycogen, sagimus or right? Right. Yeah. Of course. So knowing that, knowing that, this is where you can actually add sag extensions such as drop sets, rest poor sets, Widow makers, set past failure. So every single sag extension that you can think of, if you're a recovery allows you to do an off season, this is your time to actually sprinkle that in on top of your programming. Because you are in excess of calories and generally this type of training requires high amounts of energy and high amounts of carbohydrates. Right. So in an off season set, it's generally where we can afford to play our revolving and increase the training volume, whether it's directly by adding extra sets, right? The easiest way to increase volume or indirectly increase in volume if they're at the directly through sag extensions such as drop sets, rest poor sets and all the Pramage stuff that's more demanding and you would point a bracket of more metabolic work, right? Absolutely. Right. So knowing that, this is where we talk about matching your training for different fuel intakes. In our office and saying, it's basically, you can progress your sets, you can still add those say extensions and you will have absolutely no issues recovering from them, session to session, and being able to have a progressive training block until you reach a point where you need a deal load, reset and go again. However, the game completely changes as soon as you start going into a calorie deficit, because then you are going to go into a place where you are not as glycogen load anymore. You are in a calorie deficit, which means that to a degree, you're not going to be able to stay constant full in the gym. It's just not possible, right? At the beginning, at the beginning of your diet phase, you won't feel it anymore, be a significant bit because you have higher body fat levels. So, you know, cover capabilities are still quite high, but your priority in a contest prep, whilst you are dieting, is staying a stronger possible. We know what build the tissue will hold it there, and I always tell people, right? If you can stay strong in a contest prep and you are not adjusting your form and execution to stay strong, you will stay big. It's literally simple as that. The only time I have ever seen people lose muscle tissue in a contest prep is when the variables at hand wasn't accurate, whether it's the nutrition recovery or training. And they got a weaker. The simple easiest and quickest way for you to get weaker in a contest prep is by adding, say, extensions, drop sets and all the work that requires higher amounts of food to facilitate it. So, this is where the pendulum swings as you start to shift in a contest prep. And the first call, first call, first, first action should take, as you start a contest prep, is pulling out any say extensions. So, personally, the second I start a contest prep, any exercise that I have a say extension program in, and through a say extension, it could be anything, it could be a drop set, it could be a response set, it could be anything that you do to extend that set, it doesn't matter what it is, it's just a say extension, right? It all brings about the same goal. For me, the second that transitions a calendar deficit, whether it's a contest prep or a simple diet, that is the first thing to come out. And that in itself should see a decent enough reduction in volume, which then in turn gives you a lot more recovery ability to be able to stay stronger and even to a degree. At the first portion you can't just prep, you should still see your performance retain, hold or even progress throughout the first portion you prep. If you have all your variable set, and obviously, if you are going to contest prep of the back of the health phase, and you are also introducing some of the special supplements and special source in extra creating, that actually, that actually creating should not only work as a tool to prevent muscle loss, but you should also work as a tool to increase performance. Now, knowing that you are already a calendar deficit, you're not as glad you're loaded, it only makes sense to stick to working sets that are not going to be quite demanding, and not going to be more so biased towards metabolic stimulus and trying to get a pump, because how are you meant to chase a pump or even get a pump to the same significance as you do in an off season when you don't have the food to support that. So, this is where I think people make a massive mistake with training, as they go into a deficit, especially the deeper it's a prep. You have to accept that the pump is probably not going to be there, nowhere near to the same degree as it was in the off season. Yeah, it's a different game, it's a different game. All this by the way, I just want to say to all this by the way, hinges on your training haven't, having already been in a good place to begin with, right? You're in a position where you have the right amount of volume for you, now you pull those set extensions out and now you're able to have that increased recovery ability. But you're, because I think that it is a different topic, so I don't want to get us off on that, but I think that this hinges on already having that foundation, you're not overdoing it. You're not trying to do push-pull eggs six, seven days a week already, because I see that in guys they listen to us talk, and they say, yeah, I want to train like Cuba, but they're training seven days a week. So just to throw it out there, all those things have to be fixed first in order to get where you're talking about, sorry, I had to jump in and say that. Yeah, it's a great point to be honest, because in order for all this to work, everything I'll just spoke about, right? You need to have your set programming. If you do not have set programming, you don't know how much work you do for each day. And your training is, I want to say instinctive, because it should never be instinctive, just that you shouldn't eat instinctively. Yeah, you should know how much work you're doing on each and every single day. And then it's much easier to transition to a contest prep and knowing that right. This session I've had 17 work in sets, and I've got 17 work in sets, I had three or four sets that I had set extensions. Pulling those four sets out gives you a lot more breathing room to actually recover and then be able to continue progressing into your prep. Yeah, because ultimately, there's nothing more to moralize in than someone going to a diet phase and losing strength, losing size. And I think a majority of that really happens through people not managing the training volume correctly and not really managing or matching the training style with the fuel intake that's coming in. And you will see a lot of top pros do drop sets and only sex tensions in even a contest prep. Yes, but is it something that's going to work for you? I've found much doubt it. And could they potentially do better without doing all that work? Potentially. And another consideration is these guys are predestilated, 677 grams of carbon hydrates. So that is probably not applicable to the 90% of public watching this right? So if you have not got a program set first, make sure that you have your program in set. And if you're all working with a coach, he should take care of that. I mean, do you work with any clients at the moment that don't know exactly what they're doing across each other? Or across each other's English session? Ideally, yes, they do. Exactly. Now, how much easier is it for you to manage that training going to prep knowing that you know that a cup is going to take a hit? It's much easier for you to manage and be like right, Steve. Steve, you're not recovering from these sessions all the sudden you lose in a lot of strength. These sessions are the ones that are most demanding. This is the session that we will lower your volume slightly with. Now, in order for you to do that, somebody needs to be following a set plan. This is why I truly believe this is what I truly believe. There needs to be a foundation bill. From that foundation, you then build up your training around it, into an off season. And then potentially be able to progress your stimulus in an off season through additional work, additional sets, set extensions, Resport sets, drop sets, when you're fuel intake, your calories are high. So you build up to almost like your maximum tolerance. And I'll give you an example, right? On my push sessions, my maximum is like an recovery from is around 18 working sets total for my chest shoulders and tricep. Okay. And I can recover from that every five days. Okay. Now, that's my absolute peak. And what that means is the second are going to a contest prep. That's my baseline set. First thing, I remove the set extensions, which then allows me to have more buffer time and allows me to hold that static volume for a little while until I see a slight drop off in training performance. Now, generally, how to gauge that? You will get to a point in an off season, or sorry, in a contest prep, where you will do certain sets. And you will notice that you either lose a pump or you lose performance significantly into these sets. This is where you would simply remove that set and focus more so on the quality on the work in set that you have prior to that. Yes. Absolutely. So this is where people have to always be mindful of what training style they do and how they approach the training in order for the training to be able to match. How much fuel is coming in at that given time? It makes absolutely no sense for people to try to do all these set extensions and metabolic work, which requires a high surplus in a contest prep. It actually makes no sense. And I think that's probably one of the biggest mistakes people make when it comes to trying to hold more so to show in a contest prep. And in turn, I think this is where a lot of people put themselves into a state of massive fatigue and then, you know, having to almost grind through these sessions and chase a pump, which then it's not going to be existing. And it's something that I'm noticed with a lot of guys who don't have a deep understanding that training doesn't always have to reflect in a massive pump, especially in a diet. Yeah. It's hard to do that because you feel like the pump is satisfying. The pump gives us that sense of, hey, I accomplished something. And even though I'm losing fat and I've been somewhat depleted, I feel like I'm scratching my shirt out now. You know what I mean? It's a good feeling and people want to get it. So I get it. I get where they're coming from and I've been there, you know? Yeah, I completely understand it as well. But the last thing you ever want to do whenever you prep is chase a pump. I just don't think it's ever going to lead to any good outcomes because all of that happens, Scott, is people just started doing extra sets, actually trying to get a pump and all they're doing is just depleting more and more. Yeah. And they're not actually getting any quality work, right? And we're both know that now, with all the evidence that's going on and anecdotally, we know that the quality work is what's most important, right? Yes, it's all just the work. If it was just a work that was important, we could let's just snap home and just do press ups. Get a little pump and we won't have to go to the gym, right? Yeah. Yeah. It's the, it's the, basically the novel stimulus doing something in some way that to trigger that growth in it. It doesn't have anything to do with the pump. It's just look at the human body. I mean, if we, if we just say, hey, I'm a human body that's doing some activity in my environment, my body is going to be triggered to produce muscle because because that stimulus was hard enough or, you know, my body recognizes, hey, we don't need to keep this muscle on it. At the end of the day, the body doesn't want to hold on to new lean tissue, you know? It's metabolic, it's metabolicly expensive to have muscle and we would rather be more economical. Our body wants to be as light as possible, you know, it'd be as thrifty as possible. So it doesn't need to have all that muscle on there and really, man, I'm with you that it's just about getting that trigger in your training, which has no relationship to the pump really. The pump is a nice added bonus, but it's not what's going to keep the muscle on. I agree 100%. Yeah, pump is less than a byproduct of what you're doing the gym, but you have to remember that the pump is not always going to be there when you are trying to get lean, especially at the level that you, at the level that's required to be competing, right? Yeah, the crystal of the barricap, you've heard a crystal for right? Yeah, so he actually did a lot of an experiment on himself when it came to, it in a contest prep and a counterman exactly and Chris can, we can probably pull it out from what Chris actually did. And he actually didn't experiment where he did some tests to actually see how much muscle he held throughout entirety of the prep. And his volume is volume over time actually came down a lot. And as a natural athlete to be able to retain them out of muscle that he did, just focusing on training performance, staying strong, not chasing a pump. I think that gives us a great reference point of what we need to be looking at, especially adding a lot of creating on top of that, because we both know having the ability to sprinkle a bit creating on top of this. Only allows us to have much more chance of growing into the show, but also making sure that we absolutely will not lose an ounce of any muscle tissue if we pay our cards right, going into that prep and making sure that the training and the fatigue around the training is managed well. We also have to make sure that we are putting the work in that is going to the base of that because all this that we're talking about right, it is only applicable if you are truly putting the work in the gym floor. If you are not working hard, you can forget about all this that we're speaking out because it's not going to be applicable anyway, shape or form. So we definitely need to make sure we're kind of throw that caveat in there because I think at the moment we've got a lot of theoretical bodybuilding that's taking place. People that people that live in the theory instead of practical world and I get it all the time, so I'm so opposed about training, it's like taking some, there was one comment the other day actually on a poster I made and it was like taking some stress is not optimal. I was like according to these studies blah blah, I'm just like listen. No disrespect, but these studies are complete, there are made on people who have no idea, there are made on people have no idea how to train. I mean, none of these guys are doing remotely anything close to what we are doing in the gym. No. So it's like, this is what I mean, it's like, I don't know where we've seen this shift in the history where people are looking more so for theoretical evidence that don't give me wrong, it should be applied to a degree. They refuse to see what's practical and what we are talking about even right now, it's all practical evidence that I've seen with myself were clients and I've done over and over again, I've made them mistakes and I've seen it happen in my own eyes seeing what happens if I do this or I do this. There's no better study that can be done apart from the one that we do ourself with our own process and we also do our own clients. I mean, with both work probably hundreds of hundreds of clients right, many on the stage and everything else. So we know how this process works and the keys that actually commented it's not even about a middle. It's just a guy that was supposed to do it, right? Yeah, it's like he doesn't have a place. I'll tell you what though, man, here's the thing, I think at least we have this at the channel here. I think the majority of the people that are listening to this show are on our side with this, you know what I mean? And the end at the end of the day, I think it's just a shift right now that's happening. It's kind of a new thing really. You know, there really weren't any studies in the past, so now we're seeing all these studies and I think people want a black and white answer, you know, new people. They want to be told, hey, this is how you do it, this is the way and it's not as what we're talking about, I gotta tell you man, it's not as black and white and it's not as easy and there's going to be variables between everybody. I wanted to ask you though, so you said on your push day, you're doing about 18 sets, right? 18 working sets and you were able to repeat that every five days. So I would consider that to be a decent amount of volume. Probably more volume than my body would be able to handle. I'm probably going to be lower than that. In fact, I'm surprised because I know the intensity you push, which tells me you've got an ability to hand, you've got some pretty good recovery on your side. Just to take this a step further of those 18 sets, how many of those are like a compound chest movement. See, that's a great point because not all volume is created equal, right? So out of the A, you know, concepts, they will be six sets of actual compound work. Okay, gotcha. Okay, and then I had a, I had a, kind of a follow up then. So of that six sets, when we're talking about bringing the volume back as needed as we get further into the prep. Would any of those sets be removed as you get closer to the shell? Well, you'd be doing less of those, because I consider those six sets to be the main meat and potatoes then of what your workout is, you know what I mean? So that is a great question because the way I structure training, right? And it's going to follow on and we've just watched us speaking about, right? It's all about obviously matching what you're doing the gym with how much you're eating and what you really have, where you are in terms of obviously your prep and how even loaded or how flat you will be at that given time. Yeah. Now, my compound work is generally going to sit anywhere between eight to 12 maximum 15 reps. In a contest prep, I actually bring my repetition ranges down slightly because again, because again, you don't have the fuel coming in to be able to facilitate higher rate range work. Okay, yeah. We all know we all know that higher rate range work requires a lot of glycogen, right? If you are already flat and you are limited on a amount of glycogen that you have, doing sets of 15 on a compound movement makes absolutely no sense, because you just don't have the energy to be able to facilitate that work. Yeah. So my preference because my goal is to stay as big and strong as a physical come. I would avoid removing sets from the compound work. Okay. They are straight sets. They are sets to failure, not pass failure and generally done in rep ranges of eight to 12 repetitions in a contest prep. Generally, when I will start to pull the volume away, is always going to be isolation work. Why isolation work generally is always going to be done in slightly higher at range. Higher rate range work, higher rate range work does not lend itself to have the biggest benefits in a contest prep when you are getting quite lean and your food is not high. So my preference in that instance where I know my volume needs to be lowered, I would potentially pull one set away from an isolation work from a chest. Once set away from isolation work on my belt and one set from an isolation work on a tricep. Bringing the total volume down to 15 work in sets, removing some of the removing some of the higher at work, which is going to create a larger demand on you. That given time. That makes sense. Absolutely. So you are still keeping that mean meeting potatoes work in there. That's not going anywhere. If you are lowering the rep range though, does that mean because you are obviously still going to failure? Does that mean you are going heavier when you start the prep than in the off season? Oh, great question. Yes and no. Because when I transition to a contest prep, I already have almost a set point in my health phase where I adjust my rep range as slightly. So because generally when you do go into health phase, your recovery capabilities are going to be slightly lower because you don't have that extra crater going in right. So this is where generally I will go through almost a pre prep phase where I already start to pull my training repetition ranges a little bit lower, more within that range where there would sit in a contest prep. Okay. But food is still quite high, so I don't really remove any extra work last I could still recover from that right. But generally, I will not actually go heavier in a prep. I would prefer to actually, instead of doing a top set and a back of set, I would probably do two sets with the same weight where the first work in set will probably land me 11 or 12 reps. That happens. I will take that set again with the same load and probably hit 9 reps. Okay. Yeah. That makes sense. Yep. That makes total sense. I'm with you 100%. That was good. I'm sad I guess that then. Yeah. I was a great question to be honest. I was a great question. 100%. Yeah. I think because at the end of the day too, then it just makes sense to me and at the end of the day, those are those mean success. That's the really the most important thing. Even if you didn't, if you weren't able to get anything else and even I think you would, you would still probably get the majority of your benefit from being able to still do those. Absolutely. Absolutely. I think that is the meat potatoes of the session, right? That is where we get stuck into the big compound lifts. On my push session, this would be generally either a flat press and an incant press and a dip variation. Okay. You like dips, huh? So that would, yeah, I love dips. When it comes to push work, dips cannot be beaten when it comes to the compound lifts. Okay. I like the dumbbell incline press. That's my jam. I would go as far as to say I've had a love affair with that movement. Like I've fallen asleep thinking about it, woken up excited to do it, you know? Enough, so much so that I made sure I got heavy enough dumbbells for the home gym that I could train from home and have it right here at the house. Got the exact bench that I like using, you know, and it's that's my jam. Let me ask you this. So I don't know if this is completely related, but since we're talking about prep then I want to know, do you change your exercises at all? Do you say, you know, as needed, you go to machines instead of a freeway or anything like that. This is exactly what I was going to go on to right now as the next step. Right, right, the big one, the big one. I'm going to set you now, Scott, as well, big time because I know you love your incline dumbbell press, but unfortunately, as we transition into a contest prep, what do you think would be the first movement for me that I would pull out? You'd fuck be better not. That's all I got to say, you better not. That's what you said, you made it. Unfortunately, it would be the dumbbell press and I'm going to give him a force and reason why and then you can see if you're going to agree with me or not. Right, and again, I probably would pull it out. I wouldn't pull it out if you were so attached to it, but I would change the way you'd lift it slightly. So I'm going to give you two perspectives, right? All right, go in some prep. Which body fault do you think loses most strength and why? I feel like a lot of people lose strength in their pushing movements. And I think that's probably I would say number one, and if I had to go with a number two, I might say legs, but I think that maybe that just has to do with a fuel source issue. Right, a couple of things. Yes, fuel source issue as well. Yes, but I don't think it's as you drop that initial amount of body weight. You lose external racing. So, the heavier you are, more weight you carry, more internal racing you have. So the bigger you are, the more low you will lift, weight moves weight. Absolutely. So the first thing you will always notice whenever you are going to prep is your push work will always take a slight hit initially. And the reason for that is you simply lose stability. You don't have the same amount of body weight to be able to support that sort of lifting. So my first part of call, when transitions are consistent, if you are, for example, there was coach you Scott, in your programming, you've got dumbbells in your push days, you've got a free bar squat or a safety bar squat in your pull day. Sorry, you're leg day. And you've got a just a stiff leg deadlift off the floor on your pull days. Right. My first part of action would be removing the dumbbell work and replacing it with a machine on your push day. Reason why. And machine is going to offer you a lot more external racing, which is that you can lock yourself into a machine. It's much safer. There's no moving parts. You lock yourself in and you have more stability, more safety, especially as you get leaner and as you lose body weight. Secondly, mentally it's going to be less impactful because you've got a fresh exercise to get stuck into, which doesn't leave you of an emotional attachment to certain load. Yeah. Right. And you've got a fresh start there. I like that. Realistically, realistically, if you have been doing dumbbells, you are going to go into a machine and you are going to feel extremely strong in a machine. This is why I think there is merit to utilizing some free weight work in your programming in an offseason setting when it allows to happen. And where I believe free weights are the most applicable is always in programming, deeper into the offseason when you are heavier. And again, we've talked about the fuel source and our training right for prep and offseason and how you should match your training to match your fuel intake. However, your exercise selection should also be dictated by where you are, where you are prep or offseason. So offseason, you won't movements that will challenge your stability because you have a lot more internal stability with more body weight. Right. Go into prep. This is where you will move these movement patterns into movements that are more externally embraced. So, your safety bar squat would then move onto a hacksquat. You're stiff like a deadlift that you pull enough to floor would then potentially move onto a paused RDL which is going to be giving you more bank for your book because then you are forced to use less load and use more eccentric control. So you're reducing load exposure and I think you're increased your stimulus to fatigue ratio in doing so. So, with taking these shifts with exercise selection, taking these shifts with your safe extensions and volume and again, whether you're coming up and down, all this will do is it will improve your stimulus to fatigue ratio, going to a contest prep, which then in turn leads to easier fat loss. That's a muscle retention and potentially even if you do use creatine on top. You will recomp and potentially grow throughout the first portion of your prep. If you do make these decisions at the right time and pull the plug based of the feedback that you get for your body and you are smart with your programming with the training volume and exercise selection and the hands. There's that big sense. Yes, question. So, now, and I think this is important because I think, you know, like I said, people are looking for a black and white answer. So, when you say, I'm going to pull this exercise and switch it to this, you're not pulling that and changing it to something else out of dogma because not wearing contest prep, right? But tell me the reasons, what would happen when we got to the point where you're like, hey man, let's stop the dumbbell press. Let's go to a machine. What are you seeing to make that to make that call? So, generally, it would have done based off. More so loss of strength and that will happen as soon as you lose that first initial 10 pounds generally. Okay. Personally, for me, whenever I use dumbbells in the last season and I transition to a prep or a diet, when I lose my first 10 pounds and I go into any dumbbell press, I feel like Bambianais. Now, just don't have the same. I do. I do. I don't have the same power. I don't have the same stability. I don't feel as safe and powerful handling dumbbells when I am lighter. I know what you mean. But when you go up in bodyweight, it's not a problem because you just get stronger and stronger, especially if you start to weigh more or your squat pounds, you're doing my pressing. It's going to absolutely take off. But I did tell you, right? I was going to mention another thing, right? Which is, if I'm working with Scott and Scott has any men's passion for dumbbells. He wants to keep them in. We probably wouldn't pull them out. I would probably keep them in. Even though we know it's probably not going to be the most productive option. There is better options. However, if Scott wakes up and is excited to do a dumbbell press and is dreaming about it and he refuses and it doesn't want to take out, then I will keep it in. However, what I would then say to Scott is this. Scott, we're moving into a contest prep. You are dropping bodyweight, you're getting lighter. I want to keep you in a free. So what we are going to do now is adjust your set up with your dumbbell work. We're still going to keep them in. I'm not going to take them away from you now. But what I want to do now is slow down your centre even more and I want you to count to two with every single rep that you take in the stretch. Okay, down to the bottom. So you get to the hole. Yes. One, two, drive. I know press. What that will do right. Let's say if you're pressing 160 pound dumbbells for 10 reps. We can pretend that. Scott has been pressing 16 for 10 reps all these offseason. It's smashing out a park. Making that change in the way you performed that lift will reduce the loading of massively. Absolutely. So this way, I'll ask you a picture, Cuba. One second, sorry. Well, so this way we get to keep an exercise that you absolutely love. We get to keep you nice and healthy and productive and safe. Right, the contest, because the load exposure is going to be reduced significantly through addition of extra tempo and the pause in the stretch. If you're pressing 16 for 10, you're probably going to have to drop down to 130 if not lower. And you're probably going to get 8 reps. So this way, your staying safer, your connective tissue is not getting as much of a beating, but you are still getting a very high quality amount of stimulus, which is what we are always looking for. So, all the listeners, whenever me and Scott speak about anything on the show, we do not speak in absolute. There is always something that we will have to adjust based off someone's preference. There is nothing in this game that is set in stone. There is no most do things and there is no rules to this game. However, as long as you are aware that something might be a better option, then we're all good. Yeah, as long as you are making an informed decision about the action you take, and you understand that every action has a consequence, whether you're training or your diet or the drugs you take, then we're good. Yeah, you've also got people that might be training from home like myself, you know, and I do, I'm lucky enough to have a chest press machine, so I could make that change, but not everybody is that lucky. You know, in there are going to be some things that, you know, hey, these are my limitations. This is what I'm capable of, these are the options that I have. You know, I mean, I've met guys that say, don't even have a hamstring curl at their gym. I mean, that's, it's not ultra flex. You guys have everything you need over there, but believe it or not, gym's like that do exist, you know. So, yeah, I'm just saying, I guess that's one other thought too, is like, well, what are the options you guys have to work with? Or we do have a chest press machine, but every time I use it or hurt my shoulder, it's garbage, you know. Now, look, I know that there's probably been a lot to take in with what we spoke about today, but if people have questions and they want us to cover all the questions, what the kind of new separately as well is if we do get like, if all the questions in a off the back of the episode, we can probably do a Q&A episode and cover every question to keep people happy as well. Especially the people that pay you to run a stuff like that, if they've got any specific questions to what's spoken about today, because we've kind of jumped about from topic to topic a lot of bit, but I think, everything was spoken about kind of fell in in like a bit of a time and through it. Yeah, at least for me, my brain tracked for the whole time. That made a lot of sense to me. That's the most important thing, that's the most important thing because look, I want people to take some bit away from this, and I want people to implement this with their own training and with the clients, so that people can come away from the show now and be able to make more informed decisions about what they can do to get a little bit more from the training or whatever we speak about in every phase they do, off season prep, whatever it is. We want them to be able to get a lot of them most from it, so join a little bit of recap of what it's spoke about and always took notes and let's get cracking. I don't really have a recap, but I did want to ask you this, so I wanted to almost apply this to you today. You said you're 16 weeks out, so how long ago did you consider yourself entering the diet phase and have you made any of these changes to your training yet? Oh, awesome question. So, I let me just get my, let me just pull my check in, I'll do check in with myself actually. Oh, don't get it. You have everything's saying, yeah, of course I do, you've got to come on Scott. All right, I treat myself like a client. It's important, man. You gotta take pictures. I tell people that all the time, you gotta take your own pictures, even if you're not working with someone. Otherwise, how are you going to be able to see what your progress looks like and, and I know you, you've got everything written down, so that's perfect. Always track up, I'm a look. There's this one thing that I like and I'm, you know, relatively relative, okay, is definitely this. But that's just one thing. Anyway, right, so my pre-prep diet phase, so, in fact, wait, I'm going to take it from the start. Off season into pre-prep into holding phase and prep. Is that all right? Yep, that sounds great. Can I, can I, can I, I'm at this out for you and go over that, right, that'll make the most centre, right? So, that if the first of July was a start of my final push-up before prep. Okay. That push-up was a 14-week push-up. And it concluded on November, sixth of November, I started my pre-prep diet, which lasted five weeks. I dropped off around 14 pounds in that phase, and then I transitioned into my maintenance phase and holding phase, 11th of December, the holding phase lasted seven weeks, also, at a transition to my prep on 22nd of January was my first week of prep officially. Okay. Jufan? Yep. Right. The transition was training happened in my pre-prep diet phase. Okay. Why? Because you're holding straight-prep phase? No, no, no. I wasn't losing strength, actually. In fact, in my pre-prep phase, I actually gained strength. You did. And I progressed all my lifts. Yes, sir. Why? Oh, you're changing your rate, but you changed your rep range at that point. Is that where you changed that? I've just many rep ranges. I've just been training volume, I actually brought my volume down a lot a bit. And in terms of sex tensions, personally, I am more of a fan of force reps and widow makers. So, for me, I removed all the force reps, all the widow makers, and I also removed sort of the rest process that I had at it. Okay. So, my changes to my training volume started in my pre-prep phase as I started to lose body fat in that pre-prep phase with the removal, with the removing of the additional volume that I had with the rest force sets and the force reps, I was able to progress my lift because I had better recoverability. Gotcha. And, the creativity was still in place at that point with the entire time. Okay. Right. Next step. Maintenance phase started with a deal out. So, I took a deal out there, then I had a holding phase that lasted six weeks. So, during that phase, I actually reset my execution and my load in across all my lifts. So, it was a 20% reduction in load, roughly, on lift I need it. And I basically made sure that everything left was executed with much harsh attempt po, spending more time in the stretch. And basically, my approach was making every single lift as hard as possible. So, with that in mind, I was able to progress my lifts gradually throughout my holding phase. Now, let me tell you to prep what happens in prep of the health phase. Creating goes up from five grams to 10 grams. Okay. When you're creating goes up, when you're creating goes up from five grams to 10 grams, naturally, your recovery capability will increase. Yeah. So, training volume right now remains as is because my training capacity has increased through addition of extra creating, allowing me to take even more progression on the gym floor, last keeping the form standardised. So, what do you think that means now in my first portion of the prep with me actually gaining strength and progressive on my lifts, whilst losing body fat and losing body weight every single week? You could be even growing muscle right now. Yes, sir. Another thing that's quite important. Since I started prep four weeks ago, I have not made a single change just yet to my diet or expenditure. And I am still losing body fat, losing weight on scales, ish, but my pictures are looking significantly different weeks a week. Okay. Yeah. So, this gives you an overview of how you can manage your prep in order to keep making our progress in gym floor, because I have to do this for me personally. Why? I have a massive emotional attachment to training and training performance. If my training does not go well, I will be in a horrible mood, and I will not want to do anything. Because that is one of my source of happiness and it's my passion, right? When you have a passion for something, right? You kind of need to sustain it and need to keep it going, right? So, for me, I need to think about what can I do throughout my off season and then transition into prep and even my health phase and then prep to be able to maximize my time on the gym floor. Now, maximize my time on gym floor. Doesn't just give me what I need mentally, but it also gives me what I need for a physique development standpoint. I allow me to bring a much better package, what it comes to display and if it's a good stage. Sure. Was that a for us? Oh, that was something. No, this is good. I try to take it all in, I try to take it all in. Yeah, yeah, and I think too. This would be interesting. I think this is something we should revisit and I man, I would love to hear along the way the next time we do an installment. I'd love to hear an update and I think the audience would too to know like, hey, what's happening now where things going, what are you seeing and how are you adapting to it, you know? Absolutely. More than happy to do that. More than happy to do that. Next time I can probably cover my training frequency and what I've done, what I've trialed and how my training has been shifting as well in a bit more detail. Look and cover that too. That sounds good. So we had a couple listener questions and guys, if you want to ask any questions, then definitely become anything that you're not clear on too. You know, definitely comment because, Kubernetes, we'd be happy to talk more and end up about that stuff. But one of our listener questions we had, guy was asking us about cluster sets, rest-pause sets and how do they work? He says, I have found them to be very good for my progress in training, but he wanted to have just more insight into how to implement them. Amazing question. And if he has already listened to this show, he will know exactly when to implement them and how. So cluster sets are an amazing tool and any set of set extension, which, again, cluster set is more so going to be a fun way to completely completely destroy yourself. Well, again, what I would implement them is in a place where you are in a high surplus and you are deep into your season. So let's say, what's the first name? It's like user PZ6HS6WI6F. Repeat that. Let's just call them Steve. Let's just call them Steve. Yeah, yeah. That's the. So look, firstly, if you are seeing progress with addition of these set extensions, amazing, definitely keep them in. Yeah. What I would definitely keep them in is always when you are in a color surplus and ideally when you are in a place where creating is implemented or creating is a little bit higher. So where I wouldn't implement it is in a diet phase or a phase where you are loaded, creating to intake and recovery isn't really the best. So always remember, set extensions are great. That are great tool to increase your training volume, but only when your recovery ability allows for that to happen. So food meets the present, untoward agree if you are an assistant athlete. You want to utilize these methods in a place where you are above the physiological range as well. Yeah. So let me ask you then out of the different types of set extensions that we can do, Raspas cluster, sets, drops, sets all that stuff. Do you have a personal favorite something that's just like maybe maybe it's not even like I like this because it's the best for my growth, but just like an absolute favorite of your own where you just get excited to do that one. I would post that with a maker. Oh, yeah. Can you explain to us how a wicker works. Right. So a widow maker is a never ending son. On a leg press reason why. When you get to that failure point, while I do a widow maker is actually rest at the top, but I don't relax my legs. I keep my legs on and I keep the tension of my chords on. I take the breaths so let's say, I fail on 10 reps, right? I won't rack it, I'll hold it, I will compose myself, I will breathe, I'll take three to four different breaths. So it's probably going to be like four seconds, I'll go again. Then I'll take again a few more seconds, go again, go again, go again. You basically go with a widow maker. You mentally break because taking those, taking those rest between each rep, it just allows you to keep going and going and going. So the set end is largely dictated by a pain threshold. This is why I personally prefer a widow maker because it's something that I did when I was like 15, 16 with Tony Mexton and I will never forget these leg days forever because the pain was just incredible. But if you complete that set and the guy or straight away with a satisfied, there's no better feeling in this world than that. My second favorite is a rest force set, I do love a good rest force set. So where I would implement that is, for example, on a, on a tactic. Let's say I've got three quarters of a stack, I fail on 10 reps, I will then take 20 second rest, go again. So that would be a rest force set, right? Where you take the rest and then go again, but go to failure. So it's not so much like a widow maker, we just take in rest to get extra reps and just keep going and extend that set forever. Yeah, I love rest pauses. I would probably take him in that order. I might like rest pauses better because you can do more rest pauses than you can widow makers. You do a widow maker and you're done. Oh, yeah, so I agree. And so the honest, my preference generally is a rest pulse set because if I do widow makers, they, they after them off for me is just not worth it because I just don't recover from that. Oh, I just, I just end up dead for weeks. The first time I tried to do a muscle round, just got Stevenson's muscle around from fortitude training. I did it wrong. Okay. And I was using the the V squat, okay. And in Scott Stevenson's muscle round is four reps, then a six second break, then four reps. Is it six seconds or is it 10 second break? 10 seconds. I think it's four four reps, then 10 second break and you repeat that six times. That's what it is. And I didn't understand that he wanted them to be constant reps. He wanted it. Ah, yes. I've got mine right over there. He wanted it to be constant reps, but what I ended up doing was I would get three reps and then I'd have to pause, you know, and get a fourth rep and then I treated it like a rest pause. So the, the beauty of the muscle round is that he only wants you to fail one time in the muscle round versus the rest pauses brutal because you're, you're literally failing and then you're failing again. And if you do a third part like the DC, then you're failing again. And with the Widowmaker, I mean, yeah, that's like I'm just agreeing with you. I guess because man, you do a Widowmaker and you fail so many times every time you fail, you're taxing into your central nervous system and man, you do that 20 20 30 times, you know, into a set your your cooked, you know. Big time. This is why it's my favorite, but the least favorite at the same time because I know if I don't make it's time for a deal 100%. Yeah. All right. We had a couple more. We had one from Andrew and he says a question for Cuba and you Scott when coaching it athlete who wants to compete, but needs more size. How lean do you think they should get before a growing phase and how lean should they stay. As lean as possible and generally, if someone is willing to take it there, I will take them down to pretty much condition where it would be acceptable for around four to five weeks out. Okay. So that the glutes are pretty much going to be in and even though they don't have much size, it does it really matter. A leaner start point for anyone, even if someone is undersized is going to lead to more growth and more size. Now, if someone gets in that sort of condition where they are surely there. So around four to five weeks out condition, I would then take the body weight up over 25 to 30 weeks by around a minimum of 40 pounds. So let's say this guy finishes at like 170 and then I was easily right is very, very. His glutes are in. If you really wanted to we could push him hard and compete in four or five weeks time. Yeah. From from that point, I would push you up by a minimum 40 pounds and I would I would make sure that he takes off to 10 if he can and again. If he can if he manages it well, we could probably take off to 15 or even to 20 if he manages it incredibly well. What will be a dictating factor for him to gain the 40 50 pounds is adherence on the way up and his ability to eat. So I mean, by that is. Getting to that point with people, it is not hard. However, coming out of the other side, when hungers high and someone needs to stay patient and someone needs to take the body weight up over 30 weeks. That's a different ball game and this is where most people get it wrong. They'll add 15 pounds of body weight in two free weeks. Yeah. Accumely a lot of body fat and this is where that runway for progression is cut incredibly short because I can tell you now Scott, if someone gains the body weight that was that quick, generally the appetite will go pretty quick and they will not be able to complete such on push up and they will not actually be able to get as much body weight on them as they could have if the state more patient and stay a little bit hungry over time. It's tough, especially if it's the first time you've ever gotten in that kind of shape, you start adding food back in and then you start getting that insulin, the blood sugar is jumping up and down and man, it's brutal, but I'm with you 100% anybody listening that's in that position. It is totally worth holding on because you you stand to make the best progress of your life literally, you know. Scott, I'll tell you one thing right. I took two years off now from competing. I've made good progress, but I will never take two years off again. Why? You did it with the rebound, huh? As they've crossed the end. I was eating 900 grams of carbs and I was still, let's start. I was still starving. Yes, that's perfect man. And I was so patient coming up out of the show. It was the most productive push-up I ever had. And I was literally 20, I think 22 weeks post show. I was eating just on the thousand of carbs and I was still eating a meal and I would I would literally feel 30 minutes after I feel empty. That's perfect. But listen Scott, it was probably the hardest thing I ever done. Yeah. But it was the most productive. So as you can imagine, I love prepping and I love bodybuilding or each phase. And with me knowing that I'm capable of doing that now, I will only ever need that third week window after the show. And then I'll be able to compete again, which is quite nice. Yeah, that's I like that game plan. All right, one more question and then we had the training critique. Fitness McGee, he says, is there a way to train for bicep peaks when you don't have genetic insertions for them? So you got crappy bicep, basically. Right. Unfortunately, I'm going to be a better bade news desk up. And you know that already. Unfortunately, you cannot change your bicep structure. You cannot change your insertions. You cannot change the shape of your muscle unless you put oil in it. Unfortunately, right. So what you can do is you can get them bigger. And if you can get them bigger, they will look better. You cannot target a specific head of your bicep to that degree, whether it will make a difference, you unfortunately can't. Certain movements will buy us slightly different portion of your bullet train. But the difference is not that significant. I'm going to tell you now. And it will not really make any difference to the shape of your actual muscle. What will make difference if you really want to change the shape on it. We're both normal. And that will be some oil use which I don't think is in a great option, especially the arms because it just shows and adopting judges like it. Especially when, especially the guys that I've got into front of a diceb, they open their arms and they're closed and nothing moves, nothing changes. That's when you know something is sitting at all. It's not a good look even. Yeah, but you're right though, like more size is the answer. If you have a 23-inch arm, nobody's going to say, Well, you need more arms. No matter what, they know you're doing the Buster Can. I did get that feedback from a judge one time. The literal words he said were better bicep peaks. I'm like, what can I do? What can I do? Right. Scott, that judge should not be judge in the opinion because if a judge looks at a body part and he thinks that someone can actually change that body part. Yeah. Like that's come on man. That's just that's the stuff that a judge should know. I think anyway look that anyone have to say. You know, twist the pinky like this at the top and you know. Yeah. Yeah. And how about this too? You know what the bicep is only a third of the upper arm, right? How about we grow your triceps too to just increase that overall mass. You know, you might have the night have might not have the greatest peaks, but if you construct the sleeves on your t-shirt, you know, you're still you're still going to feel good about that, right? Who was it? Who was it that free-contrast that rolling plant? He had free triceps. Oh yeah. Even when you look at fill-heaf, some of the best arms ever, right? Filts bicep were great, but there wasn't really, there wasn't really jaw dropping. Like a filled didn't really have bicep peaks like running, right? But fills tricep is just not so when you saw, when you saw a filled like a moss muscular or even a football bicep because he's tricep with so hanging, that's what created more so the free-key shape. And as you can see, it's the outside of the head fill-heaf that way. Oh yeah, yeah, you got the fill picture bit. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I've got fill, I've got Dury and I've got Kevin and I've got I've got Jake and soon. I've got actually got Branch Warren there as well. Nice. Nice. All right, listen, we got that training video and listen if anybody else too, if you guys want to send any training videos in, let me know. An ideal way would be to upload it somewhere and then send me the link. That'd be that'd be perfect, especially people from Patreon. If you guys want to send me any video for the show. And I knew Kubo we only had time for one today, but I knew that the barbell row was your gym. So I grabbed this one and I know this guy needs some work on his back too. So let's see what he's got here. Let's go. Oh listen, man. It's actually working. I'm going to get into credit, though. It's actually a very good bow. It's a very good row. I'm not going to lie. Let's see what the last shot's up. Yeah, we're all right back here. You want me to roll it back to any part in particular here? Last. So let's roll back to the first portion of the rap and then the last portion of the rap. So you're going to set. Okay, so here's the start. Yep. Can you slow it down? I don't think I can slow it down. No, no, no, no, no, no. That's fine. Right. But I can't roll it like this. Yeah, let's do it. Let's do it. So the first portion of the rap or the sets. There we go. Right. Let's let him do one more rap. Okay. Now let's do. Let's see the last couple of reps. All right. Let's see. I think that'd be about right here. I'm actually, I'll hit play first and then I'll go back and slow motion. All right. Let me roll it back here like this. And you can see as he's fatiguing and I can tell you too, Cuba. So this guy is somebody that I know personally and he means to grow his laps. His upper back is fine. His upper back is probably I'd go as far as to say good, but where he's lacking is the lat. Right. So if he's lacking a lot, his access selection needs to reflect on. And if you want to grow the lat, I don't think Barbell Robe is the greatest idea. If you want to lift thick a rector and I think back overall, I think Barbell Robe is a great option. So first, let's just break down the execution of the movement execution itself. Not about it all. But do I think he could get a little bit more from that? Yes. What I'd like to see there. I just pause it there. Scott, pause it there. Right. See how his lower back slightly rounded. Yes. So what I'd like to see him do is sit back into his hips a little bit more. Yeah. And basically get his back a little bit more neutral. And how he can do that is sitting back into his glutes more so that he's more so going to utilize his glutes as well as his lower back for that stability and that base of support. Like that. Because if he's been overbored rowing with and I've got to turn for that is a shitty dog posture. Okay. Yes. You see that. You see that. I see it. You mean he's leaving his lower back quite vulnerable. And this is where especially as he's getting deeper into that set, he's getting a little bit more body English, which is it about think a little bit of body English simply fine about what row. You don't want to just stay completely static because they're realistically, you're not going to use any load that's going to do any sort of benefit for you. Yeah. But if you are going to use a little bit more English, you need to make sure that you've got safe posture. So sit back into hips get that lower back a little bit more neutral. And if he needs more laps, why would like to seem to. It's take the bar path and drive it a little bit more towards his pelvis and keep his elbows tucked a little bit more. Again, he's not going to make the movement. It's not going to make the movement more of a lap bias movement as would like to call it. But it will change the lift in a fashion where he will get a little bit more Latin engagement. Yeah. So the best example of if he can watch is definitely done in the eighth stage. I knew it was taken there because, yeah. Oh man, come on. It's it's literally perfect the way he does it and with Dorian. What Dorian does, his sit back and say sit sit sit hips. He is quite bent over. So Dorian is very very bent over and I would argue Dorian actually had less body English than this loved it. So if he can keep that spine a little bit more rigid and then allow us shoulder blades to fully fully work, to retract and he almost wants to extend his rib cage away from his hands going to stretch. And then think about driving the barbell up his thighs and into his pelvis. And then again, keeping that posture and almost lifted himself forward a little bit. I think that way he's just going to get a little bit more from this and look. The difference here is going to be 5 to 10%. It was a great lift. It's not really a lift where we have to break it down in complete detail. He did ask us to get it, you know, get it assessed and this is the points that I think would work well. Now, if he's looking to bring his laps up before he does a barbell then over row, I would like to see him do a more of a lap bias movement. So a single amp pull down making sure that it does target the laps, keeping that upper arm tracking right by his side, getting a shoulder extended rotate and making sure that he absolutely torches his laps before he then goes into a barbell row. Because then if his laps are already completely trashed and he goes into a barbell row, the likelihood of him engaging his laps is going to be much higher because he's already got a juicy pump in his lap right. And changing changes techniques, slightly to what we've just covered, is also going to give him a little bit more bang for his buck and keeping a little bit safe. I'm doing so as well. I think you're absolutely right, man. Well, all right, Koopa. This is a great episode. If people want to follow you on Instagram, I'm going to have the link below. And they probably already are, you know, but if you guys aren't in you enjoyed listening to this. If you've been listening to this for literally an hour now, then you can go and catch Koopa in one minute bite size segments, giving you guys all sorts of freaking advice. And if people wanted to reach out to you for coaching, what's the best way to do that? Instagram or link your bio for my email and general little point to my site where you've got a little box to fill in. And that generally gives me some of the info about them. So perfect, man. Anything you want to leave us with today? That's it. I think we left because a lot already. Yeah. Yeah. Look, if people have any questions, like I said, we're more than happy to Koopa, where do they need? So we are more than accommodating at Big Big. All right, guys. For another episode here, I think Big Body Building Media with Koopa, Chellin. I'm Scott McNally. Guys, we will see you soon. Thanks for watching. Thank you.

So I had put a lot of internal pressure on myself to get it done. So that was more of what was weighing on me throughout the entire prep. So all the outsides noise that really didn't matter to me, but it was just internal of like, all right, can you do this? Can you say what you're going to do? You know, and not prove it to anyone else, but prove it to myself. What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear. With Coach's Skip Hill and Andrew Barry, I'm Scott McNally. And today we are joined by IFBB Pro Carlos Thomas Jr. What's up, brother? Welcome to the show. What's going on guys? Thank you for having me all of a man. I guess it was much of an earlier big fan of this. This has gotten me through many of your cardio sessions, many of my meal preps everything. Like this is it, man. I'm very gracious and very happy to be on. Thank you. Well, we are excited to have you man. All of our programming is brought to you by true nutrition.com. You can use our code, thank for additional savings on products like the team skip protein blend. Plus a bunch of other great stuff. If you have any questions about it, many of their flavors or anything, hit me up. If you're in the UK, you can go to Strom Sports Nutrition, get some good house supplements over there. And if you're in Canada, check out SupplementSource.ca. Last but not least, thank you to everybody who's supporting us from Patreon. We've got some Patreon questions that we're going to dive into today. But first, we're going to introduce you guys to Carlos Thomas Jr. Forking in basically, I'm going to say brand new IFBB Pro. We've got a lot to talk about man and we're excited to have you. Like you said, because you're a fan of the show. I always love that man. It's cool to me when we can have somebody on the program that is at your stature because I think you're going to do some cool stuff in this sport. Thank you, Scott. I really appreciate that. So I know that's a start. Go ahead, Andrew. Well, I was going to say, I think, you know, Carlos is one of the freshest, most anticipated IFBB Pro's that we've seen in a long time because he's just so complete already. And when you continue to add more of that, it's going to be kind of freaking scary to watch and fun. And I will say that me and Nate Spier are looking forward to re-match with you. I don't know. We'd see man, but this is awesome. But 14.5, we'll get one of that. Yeah, we're here. Exactly. Yeah, the clock is already on. So, but no, all, you know, in serious this, I am a big fan of been a big fan. I remember watching Carlos at the 2017 Eastern USA, which is a big show for us on the East Coast and in the Northeast there. And Carlos was a middleweight back then. And two to the 17 guys. And if you recall, he won the overall denational as a super heavyweight and a big superweight at that. So, yeah. Carlos, what in the heck did you do over that five, six years? And hold on. What was this red? Are these those pictures, Andrew, the ones we were looking at? Because you sent the two pictures where he's smaller. Is that where he was a middleweight there? I believe so. And Carlos, I think because you went on to do nashals at your correct? Yes, that was it right there. Yeah, 2017. This is a middleweight right here. You don't look like a middleweight first of all. And then how long after that was this shot? 20 to 21, so four years. Okay. That's something that's a great one for us. I was going to say four years. Yeah, yeah, here's a couple of front shots. All right, I just wanted to jump in because I felt like the audience should see that progress as you guys tell the story. I don't know. I just think the camera was closer. Anyway, I haven't looked back at the first time. Anyway, I haven't looked back at those pictures in a while, so it's pretty amazing to see myself. So you know, that's pretty cool. But to answer your question, Andrew, like I guess what happened was around 2019, I started working with Dory and Hamilton on Canada. And he really emphasized the importance of, it sounds silly thinking, looking back at it. But like how important the all season is. Because at doing that time, I was going to, I was getting into my graduate program. And you know, I all season to me was just all season. You know, I get, I just get my meals in. I might have meals off. And it wasn't really like a lockdown period of time. But when it came to prep, you know, I was always like, okay, let's flip the switch. But when I got with Dory and around the time, he really emphasized all season to me. And how necessary it was. And honestly, it sounds so silly, right? Because you're like, well, of course. But when I did make that change, like that's when I started making significant progress. So like, I treated the all season like a prep, right? It was, it no meals were missed. And cardio was done. And the training sessions, you know, I made sure to track and progress and everything that I did. I also linked up with my good buddy Kyle Smith, who's my trainer here. He does my programming alone with Luke Miller. He's out of Dallas, Texas. And so everything just started to click like like, training got better, my eating got better. My understanding of supplementation. So around that time, it just kind of all came to a point where I finally felt like I was, you know, I made a cross that that next level up to embody building. So before that, I know you started to feed in 2014. I think if I'm not wrong, you might have won your first show. Like, please, or do you win your class? I can't remember. So I won my class. It was the, I think it was like the Maryland State East Coast Classic. I won my class and then I went straight to team universe. And I got four fundamentals. And then I went to collegiate nationals. And I weighed just over the middleweight cap. So I was a light heavy. And I placed second there. And then that's when I tore my ACL. And I took time off from there. And then I came back in around 2016 for nationals. And my first ever like big national show in PC National 2016. And I got my ask, sorry. Got my best right. I got my butt kicked. Like bad. So I was, you know, how do you go 16 out of 16? I'm pretty sure I was the last 16. So I was like really bad. And so I came back 2017. And that's where you saw me at the Eastern USA's. And every, we made top five in the middleweight's that year. And then that's when I took time off going to school. Things like that. And you know, starting my career career. I want to point out of that. Eastern's you, you lost a very close overall to Vlad Petrick who is also an I. TV pro now. If I'm not mistaken, right? Yes. Yes. Cool. All right. How did you turn your ACL? I'm sorry. I just, I'm not going to jump in. I just, I'm curious how you tore your ACL because that's not typically a gym injury. That's a, I think we'll go play a pickup game real quick. Oh, bad idea. Yeah. Yeah. So I think it was like already something that was, it was nagging me for a while from playing football. And I took a bad slip and my college parking lot. And the way I fell, it just did, it just, you know, it was something like I knew his wrong because it wasn't, it wasn't like, wow, like this is like a huge pop. But I knew something was wrong. And when we got to check out their like, yeah, this is this is your, you tore your ACL. And I was like, well, damn. Where would we like, we're going to go from here. So we got to get this surgery. That was in a September and we ended up getting surgery maybe, I think the December because I had a way to winter break for, for school. But yeah, it was something that I think was like a nagging injury from football, previously, that just crept up on me. And that was like the perfect storm of the way I fell. And it just went twisted. Yeah. Hopefully you'll be able to, you know, train around it and get your legs back one day. Yeah. You're legs are incredible, man. We're, we're legs always a really strong body part for you. Like even before body building where you a guy that always had like really good quads. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So it was like when everyone, when in high school, we're, when I started bench at my bench, when I started football and lifting, everyone's going benching, benching, benching, benching, benching. Yeah. I admired like running backs like Maurice Jones drew and then at the time, I was looking at like Earl Campbell, Earl old school running back, but he had huge legs. And I was like, I'ma run it back. I need to have big legs. So all this benching is not going to do anything for that. So I was squatting. So when people were benching twice a week, three times a week, try to get a big chest. I was squatting heavy twice a week. And I feel like that laid a great foundation for, you know, when I got to body building. I, I was just a, a squatter, you know what I mean? Like I, I, I, I really trained, you know, my legs hard every day. And I, I, I felt that like if I kept doing that, you know, I was playing football. That eventually I would get those big legs. And I did it, but it came after after football when my legs got a little bit bigger. Well, what was heavy back then? Um, heavy to me was, my, my, my heaviest squat when I was 20 years, 1920 or so was six, 25. Okay. Okay. Okay. No, I still, are you still doing squats nowadays? Or is that something you've moved into other machines? Or what's your thoughts on leg training today? Um, so we do mostly the pendulum squat now, but we still, we'll throw throw in some some barbell squats here and there. Um, I haven't done the barbells back barbell, barbell backs, like maybe like maybe like six, seven months. It's been a while. I've just been doing the pendulum. And it's something that I enjoy barbell squatting. So we'll throw back in just because like it's a, it's a tough movement that is fun to me. You know, I like to, I like to see the weights go up. I like to do drop sets, things like that, push myself. Um, and yeah, it's something that I'll always keep in because I don't have any issues with my back, my knees, my hips. So I can still do it. Well, right now we're just doing the pendulum squat. Do you feel like the, you know, because you hear that a lot like, okay, here's my, here's one of my thoughts though. I wonder if some of the younger people who are watching would be like, oh, well, Carlos doesn't do squats. And he's got incredible legs. Do you feel that that squatting back in the day was the foundation for that? And I, like we can't really know for sure, but let's say you only had a pendulum squat back then. Do you think you could have done, you could, you'd be where you are today without having had that foundation? I think I would have good legs because I was, if there's two things I would go with. I would go on, I was born with a set of legs, good arms. So I don't think those are something that would come to me very naturally. Yeah. But, what they fear not. They say, okay, I think that's the thing about it like this though, because you built such a base level of strength. And while that squatting strength carries over to other movements like the pendulum squat or like the cissy squat or, you know, the hack squat or any other machine. So do you think that, you know, that base that you built, you know, five, 600 pounds? Because if you're squatting, 655 for one, you're doing five, 15, for sets of eight to ten somewhere in your career there, which is a lot of weight for those, you know, high-perchography ranges. Do you think that that really contributed to you being able to get on the pendulum or some of these other machines and kind of fly through instead of kind of getting those baby gains, those, you know, trying to develop strength on that machine. Like you already had such a base of strength that go on. Do you feel like that helped you? Oh, 100%. Like these are like, this isn't something that I've been doing, you know, for a very long time the pendulum. It's something we just implemented in the past, like, almost like even a year. So I would definitely say like, when I developed that base, you know, of lifting heavy loads under and after bar. Yeah, it definitely translated to making it easier for me to adapt to the pendulum versus going backwards and do pendulum to barbell squat. So yeah, all those years of lifting heavy and squatting has definitely laid a foundation for me. So that now we can, you know, take the load off of the low back, take it off of the hips and load it. You know, in a barbell squat situation and focus solely on, okay, let's make sure we get good knee flexion here, target the quad. So now we're getting a little bit more specific with the training, but we still will still go back to some point in time throwing in a little bit of those great exercises because I feel like at some point in time you need to go back to, you know, just to stimulate the body. Yeah. And for the listeners, the younger kids listening, this is a huge takeaway, I think. I'm glad to hear you say this Carlos, because the strength is important early, not only for the major muscle groups before the stabilizers, even your lower back when it comes to the squatting, so that when you do move on and you get more specific and more isolated, that strength and those stabilizers aren't weak. And that is incredibly important, especially for longevity when you talk about things like that just, you know, the hips, the glutes, the lower back, that sort of thing. So, you know, you make a good point with the strength, the power movements being, I would say arguably more important at the start, because you know, you guys, I think it probably seem the same thing as people advance into the pro ranks. There aren't a lot of guys these days doing the bulk of their training with squats. There are exceptions and I understand that. And this is a huge correlation versus causation argument. I get that as well. But I'm just basing my opinion on an observation of what I've seen over the years and not everybody, there's less and less squatting free weight, barbell squatting as people advance into the pro ranks. At least in the open division the guys with bigger legs. You guys see the same thing. 100%. Though I'll tell you what, who does squat? It seems like every workout. Mr. Olympia. Yeah. You guys see the videos with him with him in Honnie. Yes. He squatting five, six, seven plates and then he does walking lunges with like easy three bills on the side. And he's just like he's going for a walk with a barbell on his back. I love that. That's amazing. He's next up. He's doing the strip sets as he's like he'll hit a couple reps. Those strip off the plate. More reps. Those strip off the plate. This is nutty. I had to follow Instagram a little bit more. I got to. I know too Carlos like even though you've gotten credible legs, but okay. So this is where I guess things are going to the next level. From what it sounds like you're not backing off on legs and anybody means. I mean, you what I saw recently you posted that you do more of a him focused day more of a quad focus day. How often are you are you hitting legs now? So I would say up until this. Like fall. That's what I was doing probably like one leg day like quads and ham together. But when I started working with Lou Miller, he switched some things around to my program where I started doing like a ppl type slit and now we're hitting quads say like today Wednesday was my quad focus day and it was one ham string and then on my next. Pull day will do a ham string line leg curl and then super set that with a RdL. Okay. So you're still trying to grow your legs basically is what we're getting at here like I mean you've gotten credible wheels, but I mean I guess what my guess is is you're thinking well now I'm going into the pro ranks and there's no such thing as having big enough legs right. No, I mean like we cut we approach the train session is like if something's good like why I back off with just. Well we'll modify it like we don't have to like again like I'm not doing barbell squats to a Q can anymore, but you know we still want to go in with the intent of. You know doing doing work. I don't want to not. To pull off the gas on certain body parts because it's not in my mentality to do that. So if something's good like my arms, you know why not make him better. My legs are great they can be they can say great. Yeah, what what do you want to bring up what would be if you could say like one thing you'd really like to see improve what would be that for you. Oh the back definitely we've been working that like we've been working that thing crazy. It's the it's been I would say one of the glaring weaknesses on my body. Because I think I've been such an arm dominant person that had to retrain how to pull and not use my biceps and to not. Like to to learn how to engage the lots from you know the beginning of the movement all the way to the end of it. So what we did this year is you know we basically stripped down everything to build it back up you know so a lot of the things where. All right well let's see if we can you know like take I could not go for a 4 plates but you know it didn't see any benefit from it so let's break it down and let's really focus on like you fully opening up your scapula. Yeah, and then retracting it and just working to you know length in length in the last and different angles. So those are things that may be a bit unconventional to my my training before compared to my training before. But they've yielded some results throughout this all season that I think will pay off come the New York Pro so. That it's a question the back is definitely a glaring weakness that we had to work on. Hell yeah I'm sure you guys as coaches have seen that Andrew and skip I you get a guy who has incredible arms I'm working with one of those guys right now incredible arms it's a gift. But then when it comes to back you can also be a curse you know. Sure even an imbalance from say the lats to the upper back is another example to if you have guys that come to you and they're predominantly dead lifters they typically will have weak lats and to try to get the upper back. To get out of the way and not do that work and isolate and dig into the lats it can be very it can be an arduous process it takes quite a while I think what's what's notable here with Carlos and and. You know listeners again can relate to this if you if you start big and you're not doing things right and you're progressing. And you start fixing the things you're not doing right those next levels can be big big jumps if you're not if you don't have that genetic superiority you can make all those changes and you're still going to progress but you're not going to make those. If someone's listening to going oh yeah my protraction reader have heard that before I should look into that more my back's going to be awesome in a year. Probably not you will progress because it's it can make a substantial difference in in your progress in your development. But if you haven't been making great gains all along is not going to be all the sudden this and you put on you know three inches on your your lat with thickness at the same time so. It's easy to strike on this. Don't listen to this if guys you can do it just try give it what have we said. For though take all the back training is that muscle group that is in my opinion. The most complicated to train correctly. Yeah, you can move weights and a lot of people will have a relatively good back and they're not training is optimally as they could. But they don't know that they need to because they're growing then you run into like a situation here Carlos is saying where he's like okay now it's a glaring weakness and I have to take the closer look and then to back off and kind of go back to. And kind of go back to basics lower the weights get into that feeling of the protraction retry and then build from there I got a feeling. With that back's going to come out looking like those legs here before. Before too long it's going to be crazy. I know Andrew had a question I would just wanted to ask really quick though Luke is he the guy you were with at the Olympia did I see you with him there. Luke was there but I wasn't with him okay okay. Oh you're talking about Luke that's that's Luke Carol he. Luke Carol I'm rebel which is okay. Okay that was Luke Carol all right yeah I'm good. Yeah, yeah, Luke's also a great and it. At the oblivious some ownership and that as well so. Yeah, yeah. No, but so I want to bring it back to 2021 because I was I'm always interested in the mindset of athletes especially when like you know like in my case like work when they spirit been like you know. Close to like you know hit hitting his stride and getting that card for so long and then Carlos comes around and we start seeing the pictures 15 weeks out 13 weeks out and we're like oh my god this guy's arms his legs like I can't believe he's be a middleweight so anyway my question was. Well my question is is that everybody I mean almost everybody was pegging you as. The odds on favorite when the show from 12 15 weeks out and we saw it on the message boards on on the Instagram on Facebook and all everywhere radio shows were talking about it. What was your mindset was it was it you know was it positive for you to know that people expected so much out of you was it kind of did it creates a fear like tell us a little bit about that. It's a great question. For me it really wasn't the outside noise it was more internal and the expectations I placed on myself. Because I knew I had a I had a goal I was just turned a turn 30 last May and I was 29 when I won the national's and I said to myself. I said if I'm going to get this by 30 then we're going to figure something else out so I had put a lot of internal like pressure on myself to get it done so that was more what was weighing on me throughout the entire prep was. All right well. You know I mean like you placed you everything I placed it I said that I would do within my life I've done it you know if I said I wanted to go get my the certain my career and a certain city and I got waiting got it. I said I wanted to get my graduate degree I did the test I put it in the work I went and got it I said I want you know I wanted to you know come back and get my pro card and this was the time and I was like. All right well. It's more up to you and you know I mean it's it's what can you do so all the outside noise that really didn't matter to me but it was just internal of like. All right can you can you do this can you say what you're going to do you know and not prove it to anyone else but prove it to myself. So that was more of the battle that I had but I have a really good team around me like my dad you've met my dad before. So we would we would we would we would just have talks and you know and he would really dig into the mental side of it and you know we're heavy on. You know just just the mental game and and and trying to stay positive so having that support system was really crucial going into it. Because I wouldn't say it was like a bit of self doubt but more of like you know I put a time limit on it and but I really loved body building so I was like. All right you got to you got this one chance big talk and you better get it right so it was more of that that I did to myself more so than anyone else saying are he's going to be great. He's going to win all this stuff that really didn't get to me was more of the the press shot put on myself. Let's see that so and no one that you know because I have met your father great off and gentlemen and you've always had a good support team from everyone I know that knows you that they they say great things about you like like any wallick we're both friends with Kenny Kenny was your posing coach. Yeah you're father but I also want to go into. I also want to go into you had a coaching change it two weeks out and if you don't want to talk about this you can just say so but you're working with somebody and. And rarely will someone make a change that late in the game because they don't feel confident with who's directing them you know into the process especially someone. I'm going to someone who's on your level like like someone that everyone's expecting like a show from you know. What was going on with that and what do you know do you have anything to say about that. Yes so. During the time I was like all season and leading into that I was working with a patratory and Patrick's great like he's awesome dude anything I had to ask them or anything like. I had questions he would immediately answer me and we did a lot of good work during that all season and he taught me a lot about. How to properly you know train in a certain way his train techniques and then like his nutrition techniques these are things that I've carried for even after working with him. But around that time you said about two weeks out it was just at a point where my body was really not in a good spot. So you know I just mentioned to him and like I'm going to try to figure something else out and for a few days I was just working on it with my. My buddy Kyle Smith because we're very close and he's he's me every day in the gym and we were putting some things together and and it started to come the body started to come back because I was retaining a lot of fluid. And it was coming off of me so I was weighing around 240 to two weeks out and on stage I weighed 220. Wow. So yeah, so we were right at you call by the Tampa right is that right. I can't remember. I know I qualified at the armed forces in the gym. Okay. And that was in November. So yeah, we were just you know trying to hit the body to calm down and you know just trying to draw some of this inflammation. So at that point I had reached out to my current coach, cash, kidsry and I was like hey like I might need some help. And this is probably like 10 days out and 12 10 days out. Yeah, right around the time and he he was like sure he was like semi some pictures and. I said something over to him he set me to plan and we started getting the work on it and you know I think with him also is he's very positive mentally like he he he. He has this this way of I want to say. willing things into existence. So if he gave me a plan, he was like, all right, I'm going to give this plan you'll drop five pounds. And just from like saying that and then things, then it occurring, you know, I mean, there's this positive positivity that that comes into effect, right? Yeah. And sometimes it's a good one, athlete to just get behind it. And things will happen. And that's what started happening. Not only was the program that he was putting together was great, but also the positivity and leaning into that national thing just started clicking, dropping the inflammation. So that Tuesday before the nationals, we landed in Orlando, I slept for like 10 hours at night. And I dropped like 10 pounds. We'll go up drop 10 pounds. It was ridiculous. And then from then on, it was just kind of bringing in the best packs we can with dealing with the circumstances we were dealing with. Why couldn't you guys lost a few more? So good question. So I wanted to be a super heavyweight. I think I just wanted that to go, you know, with that, you know, super heavyweight and to also possibly when the overall, it was something that I I talked to my dad with. And I was like, well, we're going to be kind of close to super heavy. Should we just go up or should we just, you know, I mean, trying to stay down there, get down there. And he was like, well, you know, go big. And I was like, okay, we just went out there and we weighed in and yeah, we made it happen. And so we went for super heavy and and the rest is as it was. That's you weighed in as a super, but then you ended up on stage four, five pounds lighter, dryer. I think you said you're doing it. Yeah, I'm waiting it in. Yeah, I waited to the end of the night to weigh in. I was like, what's just laid to the end of the day. So I'll play the game, right? I mean, like, where do I think I have the best shot? Where what's going to be the best overall look? We actually talked about this on a previous episode. I think last time we recorded guys about what we do with athletes the day before two days before show. How do we tweak things? How do we plan based off the check in time? What do we feed on? What we have in drinking so that they hit the weight we want. And then we can do whatever we want with manipulations to make sure they have the look that we want. So yeah, that's that's cool. I like to hear these little backstories. So I got to blame your dad. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. You're dad seems like he's a really big fan too. I'd say he's probably your your biggest fan. I got a chance to meet him out of the Olympia. He spotted me. You weren't with him. And he goes, I go, did you see Carlos Jr. You know? And then I, and I'm looking online, I see there's videos of him training with you. Like you can tell me that he is just so passionate for what you do. And I, I feel like that's got to add so much to, you know, just just everything that, all the aspects of bodybuilding to have support like that, you know? Yeah, it definitely does. My dad is, you know, like he's definitely like my best friend. He is my best friend. You know, because whenever I did coming up he poured himself into it. Whether it was track and football, track and field football, anything that I did, he was 100% behind it. And he delved into it just as much as I did, you know? So if I, if it was football he was looking up training camps and stuff like that. And now it's bodybuilding, you know, we're, we're training together or, you know, we're going to different places to train with people to learn about their method or something. And so we're, we're very much a team when it comes to this. That's so cool. So New York pro, who's all doing the New York pro? Thank you for tuning into another podcast here at Think Big Bodybuilding Media. If we've provided value to you today, then please consider contributing to our show. You can help support the show through Patreon. Every $5 helps to pay for the software and the hardware and everything else that goes into making a podcast. You can also contribute by using our code at True Nutrition. True Nutrition has been our title sponsor for several years now. I'm super grateful for them. And I've believed in true nutrition supplements long before they sponsored our programming. There's a bunch of bunch of new guys isn't there, Andrew? I know Nate's doing it. I know Stewart's doing it. I thought Justin Shire was doing it, but we got where that he's out. He mentioned that yeah, the Olympia that he was going to maybe hold off. He was literally like the largest human being at the Olympia. Just every direction. He didn't look like he was dieting any time soon. He was growing for sure. I don't know. You got to walk around Carlos here. When you see him, oh he's a big girl. Don't give me wrong. But you're in shape too. There's that. You could yeah, you could tell Justin was just like he was just growing, like all out, you know, anabolic at that stage. So, you know, if we know, it would have been great to see him in that line up with you guys. This is a little bit of cool show. We had this. Oh, go ahead. Good. Well, I was going to say I'm sure you'll probably have I heard from somewhere that like John Delano Roza was coming back to do it. You know, you'll probably have Justin Rodriguez. We'll probably do it. He's always kind of does the New York pro or those shows. But I think, you know, it's going to be kind of this blending of like the real young or the real newest, the newer pros, again, some of the older established, you know, one foot maybe moving towards the other direction type pros. So it'll be very interesting to see, you know, this crop of young talent all in the stage together. And I say young, but it's, then you guys are like young, but you know, newest, newer I have beauty pros. Because, you know, you're 30, Nate's 35 or 36 now. Stort, well, Stort's really young actually. Stort's only 25. Yeah. Yeah. No. Little bit cool. Well, and it would be cool because everybody, all the people you've mentioned, those are all people that, you know, we like to have on the show. So I'm thinking I haven't in my head. We need to get you guys all on here. Like as it gets closer and here, you know, how things are coming together. That'd be fun. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That way. Right here. Go, go, go. So we were talking before the show. I asked you what you did for a living. What your job was. And Andrew stopped me because I started asking questions. So we got to get back into that. You know, what, what do you do? Okay. So I work for a university, a local university here. It's a university of Pennsylvania. And my title is a research coordinator. But I do more like communications side of it, during for our study. It's called A.Cad, Agent Co. Horth Hall, Simon's disease. And we have sites in America and Canada. And I help with the outreach side of it. And I also assist with the back end of the website, documents, articles, you know, various research materials. So that's more my role of it. I don't really do much with the study, like scientific part of it. But I get the sit-in, sit-in, sit-in on meetings with like really cool, really smart people. So that's always been a pleasure. And I learned more than I knew when I started the job. What did you face, guys? So what did, what did it be? What had have been like not politically correct when he asked you what you did, you said something to do with all the simers I can't remember. Is that, because that's something I would say, but I'm not very professional. So I don't know if that's sensitive. That's why you don't have that job skip. That's smart enough. There's that too. No, no, I love it. That's good. Well, I think it's interesting and something to point out that we have a really good up-and-coming professional bodybuilder that has a nine to five. And I think we've seen the trend is a lot of guys in this industry. They get into coaching. I think they think it's an easier lifestyle because in some sense, your next year, fridge all the time, you can get your business in. But Carlos, tell us a little about, especially when you're prepping, you know, have an normal either college schedule or work schedule. I know you have some advanced degrees. What's that like, in terms of putting it all together? Well, as far as the college, I, that's also one reason I didn't prep during when I was getting my graduate degree. It was only two years, but honestly, it was, I didn't want to take away focus from that because, you know, how you get when you're in prep and you're all in on that. Things, some things can slip and I did not want to, you know, take away attention from that because that was very important to me. But as when I got situated with work and I was able to get a routine going on, like, okay, these are my meetings look like, these are what, you know, the workload looks like and I knew when it would fluctuate, you know, how basically how to good grip of the work. So I am working from home, it's a lot easier than having to commute an hour. That would be difficult, but I've done it before. So I wouldn't have any problem with that, but it's a lot easier working from home when, like you said, when the meals are right next to you. But it doesn't really weigh on me too much. I would say the worst part is probably just, you know, dealing with, you know, meetings when you're, or you're, like, short on attention, doing prep, those little things, but obviously it's honestly not that at all. Once you nail down the routine, it's, it's not that at all. The nice thing about a nine to five job, too, is when you leave, you're done, you know, in an inversed, like, I think, kind of what you're, what I was thinking, Andrew, is you're saying that it's like, with coaching, it's nonstop. So you have to constantly be using your brain if you start slowing down and slacking, then, you know, it's like, your business directly suffers for you know, I know it, and if you're working for someone else, and I'm not saying you slack, but, you know, you can get by. You can do what you need to do to get by and, and then still go do the rest of your life and have that nice separation between the two. There is something really positive about that. There's no question. Yeah, because you got like a schedule, right? Yeah, you go work. Yeah. You clock in at 8 a.m. You're done by four. You drive to the gym. You, you pre-work out someone there. You get to the gym. You do your training. You go home. You're shutting it down for the night where, and I'm not complaining because, you know, I like my lifestyle, I think us as coaches like our lifestyles, but there's been many shows where I'm up early doing check-ins right before I'm going to go get on stage two hours later, you know? Yeah. Mostly because I don't want to get behind, you know, where I've been up at night, you know, 10 to 11 o'clock responding to emails or, you know, talking to someone who's in another country across the world. But, but I do think what I wanted to point out though is that I think a lot of younger guys, they want to get into bodybuilding, and then they, without any even competing, or maybe they've done one show, they want to start coaching athletes, and they think that they're going to jump into this pool of 80 to 100 clients, paying them good money, and they don't think about setting their life up in the sense that Carlos has like, okay, I know I want to get a college degree, I want to, I know I want to get advanced college degree, a master's and whatnot, and then a regular job so that will support my bodybuilding, not necessarily take away from it. So I thought it was just a important point out that like you can keep a regular nine to five and be a good bodybuilder. Yeah. I think the routine makes me even better. You know, I think when you have, when I have like, okay, I have this meeting at 10 this meeting at one, two, whatever the schedule is, I know that I have to to work around that. So I have to get up at a certain time to to make sure I get this meal in, because I don't want to eat at dormitory meeting, even though I have done it, but I don't want to, you know, I want to make sure I have, you know, all these things laid out, you know, so that they can work together, you know, and it kind of he's off his, all to be each other. There's some synergy going on, I guess. Well, I don't think anybody's going to be successful in this, in bodybuilding, you know, competing and that sort of thing without being a highly structured person anyway. If your life is chaotic and there isn't structure, you're just really going to struggle to optimize your gains, your progress, and that sort of thing. And I think we've even seen it in clients where their life is chaotic. I've seen it myself, I'm being honest, when things get chaotic and the structure isn't there, it's just, it's, it's, it's holy shit. And it's a very anxious feeling. It right. And so I would ask you a, a, and do the same thing with the movement of everything else. Do you find yourself anxious, because you're not in that typical, highly structured mode, even if it's just a handful of days, a drive should not. Doesn't it? Oh, dude. I have been to a gym since last last Thursday. And I've, I'm averaging four and a half meals a day, because like, you know, you first, you have two, two, full days of driving, and then we got here and you just want to jump into projects that we had to do, like, you know, getting, we're putting a new door, we had to paint, we had to, you know, install it to you, all the, all the little things, you know, that just take time out of the day. And then I saw it to work at the same time. So right now, the gym is taking a back burner, me being a bodybuilder, quote unquote, is taking a back burner for probably the next three or four days. But your right skip, it is like, it's just anxiety, just kind of eat naturally. Yeah, I need to get back, I only got five meals in today. Like, what is going on, you know? So yeah, I can't wait to, like, I think after this weekend, we are back on our regular schedule up cardio walks, you know, meals on time, regular day, today's schedule, which, which it sounds like Carlos, you have completely adopted that with, with your current schedule and everything. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And like, like, it was saying, the structure is everything. And if you don't have that, I, I feel like it just, you'll fall apart. It's at one point another, you'll fall apart. Like, in my opinion, I know I need it, I know it benefits me and it makes me, you know, better all around, but even within work, but just within, like, you know, making sure I'm one time for, like, scheduling things with, like, if I want to go see my parents or, you know, a schedule time for my girlfriend, you know, I have to have some type of structure where everything will start falling apart. Does she does it live over here, right? I'm judging the states. She's in Germany. That's right. Okay. And she's a good, um, up and coming wellness athlete. No kidding. Yeah. Yeah. Man, I think she'll have, I think she's going to have the same initials before four letters after her name very soon with Carlos. So, I'll be a family unit. No kidding. So, wellness. Carlos and I have the same big, big, junior. That's a time. That's a time. That's a time. That's a time. That's a time. Well, wellness all the way. Well, this year's, like, 30 years ago, skip would have only been a wellness coach. Back. Okay. Bodybuilders. I ate muscle. I've shut out. Yeah. There'd be that it's creepy. Yeah. And so, with the right. So, she's in Germany. How often do you guys get to see each other? That's not like coming over from Ohio or something. That's like, yeah. I was, I was in Germany, March. My first time in Germany was last March and 20, um, 22. And then she came for the summer. And then I went to Germany to go see her compete in November. And then she came back over in December. Okay. No October. Yeah. I came, I went to see her in October and then she came back over in like that December, um, January time. And, and then, you know, we're working on getting her back here. Back in. Yeah. And it's, uh, you know, I brought my wife came in from Canada. And it's not, I mean, that's, she lived several hours away. And that was like, that was difficult. I could only imagine an entire other continent. What was the bodybuilding like over there? Because I know if you got over there, you guys got to some gyms and stuff. Oh, right. So, um, the, the, the Gyms, you trained as more of a, I guess it's, uh, what you call a like a chain gym, commercial gym, gym, but it's nice. It's, but it's really good. Like it's, it's, you can bodybuild out of that gym. The only thing is it's three floors. And the elevators really slow. And the floors are not laid out like, in a way where it's like, all leg equipment on one, you know, chest and back on the other. It's very odd. Um, so a leg day at that gym is, is not fun. But, um, the other Gyms went to, which is really cool when we went to, um, the Frankfurt. It was Frankfurt. Um, and I trained with Tim Bootersheim, uh, really good driver bodybuilder. It was, um, the gym that Marcus rules started. Ooh, cool. Yeah. Yeah. It was a really cool gym, really old school. Um, yeah. It was an awesome place to train in, like, a lot of change driven machines, which I've never trained on before. Um, and it was though, that was the atmosphere of that one was really good. Uh, speaking of chain, where people chain smoking between. I'm just gonna, I don't know. Yeah. It was good. It was good. It's I'm saying it. I'm like, this is a really bad lead. Oh, I'm gonna use it. I love it. I think that's a German. It's a German thing. A lot of people smoke over. They do they still. I mean, I don't know. I don't know. I mean, to get off like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, you'll see people smoking around like on, like, on, like, like, like, on, like the platform trains waiting because, like, that's just what they do. Like, so yeah, there's a lot of people who just kind of just smoke, but um, it was something to get used to. That was like, I mean, a lot of you just poke around here. Um, but on the cigarette packages, this is crazy though. On the cigarette packages, they have like these disturbing images of like lungs like, again, people coughing up blood. So then I, they're trying to do this. Oh, sorry, my bad. It kind of stopped. You don't like it. So I'm smoking. Excuse me. But it's so crazy because people still buy the packages. I'm like, sure. They have that in Canada too. Yeah, it'll be like, this is a picture of a lung that has cancer, you know, and here's your cigarette. So you go boom. It's so wild. Yeah, they should do that. We found like, little packets of anava, like, you know, like, show a liver that's like, you know, that one worked either. I don't know. Not a lot of the abilities would still do that. It's like, as candy. Yeah. What's the package of? So what else you got lined up for after New York? Where you plan on making a season out of it or are you just going to do one and done this year? Um, we're working about it. Might. Yeah, I'm waiting to see it. Might, see it. Like, as we get closer, Toronto's only two weeks away. Um, and it's like an hour flight. So that would probably be like the most likely show I would jump into. It would be probably Toronto after that. And then we'll go from there. You know, I would have to see. But New York and then, you know, Toronto's right there. So possibly that way. Hey, what other thing I wanted to ask you about was sponsorship because I know you mentioned iron rebel. Um, you know, a lot of our listeners, uh, be it guys that are just getting into the sport or guys that have been doing it for a while. A lot of people are interested in figuring out like, how do I get a sponsor? What would be, uh, well, first of all, I guess like who are the sponsors that you work with? And, uh, what would you advise people to do that were interested in trying to find sponsors? Uh, so I work with iron rebel, my two, my two main spots iron rebel and project AD. Um, so when I got with iron rebel, it was in 2020 actually. And Luke Carroll reached out to me, Luke the Hulk on Instagram. He reached out to me. It was like, hey, man, like you have any sponsors. We haven't followed each other. But he said, you have any like, Clovis sponsors? I'm like, no, no, I don't have any body. Um, and I probably had 9,000 followers at the time. I guess still don't have a lot, but compared to other people. But I had like 9, 8 or 9,000. And he was like, yeah, we want to bring you on. And then it's been awesome ever since like they've been great. People, Luke is awesome. And I love work with iron rebel. Um, so I would just say to that note, we'll just probably be just, you know, working and making relationships with people because I met with Joe Binley of project AD at the 2021 New York pro. And, you know, it's been just something that we kind of cultivated ever since then. And then they signed me at the beginning of 2022. So I had previous relationships with these people and, you know, I just continued to to grow them. And again, Joe was also another awesome guy and project AD is treated very well. So, um, and previously before them, I had worked with my old coaches sponsored brand, Doran Hamilton's brand, AC Muscle. So again, you know, just just another relationship that just kind of cultivated into an opportunity. Um, so for me personally, a lot of my, uh, I would say a lot of my opportunities just came from meeting people and, you know, and call, like I say, a cultivating that relationship with them. Yeah. And you know how to talk to people too. Like, and I saw you interacting with the ton of people at the Olympia. I think that that's a probably a big part of it once people get to meet you and know you. It's like, hey, that's a good guy. Plus you've got a physique on you. So that doesn't hurt either, right? It is a herodol. Um, yeah, I'm not really a social media guy would say, um, yeah, I'm more of a boots on the ground. Like, I love when they send me to, um, you know, store events. I had plenty of events this past summer with, uh, you know, Jake color was there and I got to, like, watch him and how he interacts with fans and, um, you know, that's something that I want to emulate. Um, and I love that because I think, you know, a DM is cool, you know, a common is cool, a tag is cool. But when you really get to shake a person's hand, ask him what, why, how did you get started? Why are you here? You know, um, you know, what are your motivations and what are your future plans? I think that builds a connection with them and then you can, then that's something that they'll carry with them and you'll carry with you. Um, and then you might see them later on down the line. Two, like, I met somebody that I met at the Arnold last year. I saw them at the Olympian. You know, we remember each other and it was a good, it was a good interaction. So this is what I, I love about the sport, you know, building those relationships and people and having it impact. That's cool. That's cool. So with sponsors that's kind of the deal, like they'll, they'll take you in. Yeah. What do you do? You go places. You, I mean, I've seen like, do you like photoshoots and stuff with iron rappler? How does that all work? So photoshoots with eye-revel? Um, I've gone to store events with iron rappler. I've been to like a place in Kansas. That was awesome. Um, with the Arsenal supplement store. Um, my, my, my, my, my good friend Caleb, he owns that with his, with his wife. And, you know, just, again, that was a relationship that like, I met through my sponsorship. And now there are good people that have, you know, in my corner. And then with project ID, they send me to all, like, in these different stores that have like store events going on. So, um, people come through. You get to meet them. And that's, that's all, what I love to do is just, you know, I don't care. You can fly on me anywhere. I'll say yes. That's cool. Do you guys have anything else you wanted to throw in here? I had a couple, like, you know, off topic questions. And I had some listener questions we could throw in and stuff. But uh, I just want to make a comment that uh, I think a good physique without a personality or integrity of useless. But I'm pretty old to. So, the younger crowd may not agree. And I've seen it exactly the opposite where they, you know, listeners and followers and minions, if you will, will support a great physique with an absolutely horrible personality and person. So, there's that too. I didn't mention names got show. So, it's disappointing to see. So, when I, when I do get to meet someone like yourself, it's a really good combination. It's refreshing to someone who's been around for a long time. And likes when there's a good personality and a good person and, you know, your relationship with your dad. And every, it's, it's, it's cool. It's, it's a good story. So, even if I didn't like you, I'd have to. I mean, I would want to be supportive of a guy like you, Carlos. Very cool. Thank you very much. Appreciate that. Let's get going. Yeah, and you know what, you hear people say you're like, like, like, like we just did that interview with Terrence. And one of the comments was Terrence is such a good guy and he's really good for the sport. You hear people say, this person is good for the sport. And I think that's, you know, like, that's what it comes down to. You know, what are your motivations? And you, like you said, you're like, I want to be able to meet people, build relationships and basically create positivity. That is that's good for the sport. You know, that's, that's what it's about. And I think that's fantastic, you know, there's not a lot of humility in the sport either. So when, I know when I see it, it's refreshing. All right. I'm going to throw into question here. I had, we've got a bunch of stuff. You know, we're all going to do a Q and A after this. But we've got one that I want to throw in here because I, I want to get everybody's opinion, but I wanted to make sure that we got Carlos and on it too. It was about training partners. If I could find it, let's see, here's a trend question. Here's a trend question. Here's another trend question. Here we go. Here it is. Jason says, question for what's what and gear the pros and cons of training alone versus with a partner. I realize this is subjective, but I'd like to hear gut responses from you guys. Thanks for the excellent content. So we'll start with you on that one, Carlos. And training with, probably I would go outside of that and say just training with my trainer. He doesn't, he's not a training partner, but he trains, he trains me. And I just, I like, I prefer that because around me, it's hard to find a training partner. So I would, if I had to choose between those two, I'd opt for training alone just because the pool around me is not very deep with people that I feel would, you know, want to take the intensity to the levels that I try to take it to. So I would opt for training alone, but preferably I would love to train with my trainer. What about you guys? I think a trainer like, like, you have is kind of like a training partner. He's just not doing the sets, but he's giving me that motivation. He's giving you that support. He's making sure that on that ninth rep, maybe you get it, maybe you don't. He's making sure you just barely get it with you doing all the work. I think that's a really good relationship. And I could tell just when I see you guys together, you guys have a really good relationship. He's got your back in every sense of the way. And you can see why he's been crucial to your success over the last couple of years. But in terms of, in my case, training partners, I've had training partners probably for the last five or six or seven years. And I've gone through a lot of them because, you know, with our sport, people come and go in terms of the attention or their, their motivation to either compete or or whatever you want to call it. You know, someone's into it for two years and then life happens. They have a kid. Whatever it might be. So, I've been blessed to have some good training partners. And I think the reason why I like them is because you're connected with just that one other person or those two other people. And what I see a lot of times is people that train by themselves. Even though they were in headphones, they got their phone with them. And in between sets, they're scrolling, they're doing stuff like that. And to me, I think that's an intensity verister. And some people can turn it right back on in between sets. But for me, I want to keep that energy in that intensity and that mental focus up for that whole time. Even if you're trading, you know, jokes or whatever in between sets. It's very different than like sitting on a bench for two minutes scrolling, oh, it's time to do my next set. And I have no problem. Like, if my friends or my training partners are, you know, picking off with like their phones, I'll just snack out of the hand. I'll be like, bring that shit somewhere else. You know? So I do think there's pros and cons to it. But I like it, you know, in a sense that you can motivate each other. You can, you know, as I get older, maybe I'm getting a little weaker in certain exercises. They're getting stronger. It'll push me to try to make sure that I'm keeping up in a sense. And also, like, I think I told you, I took a younger guy on a couple weeks ago, trained with us. And we did a crazy leg workout and pretty crazy like workout. And, you know, while he's pukein, I'm not pukein, but I'm sitting there like, you know, okay, this could keep up. Okay, good for him, you know? And it'll push me though. And it made me work harder than I probably would have worked that day. So I do, I do think there is something to say about training partners if you find the right person that matches intensity. Yeah, you know, it's funny that I have similar thoughts about it as you do and your my thing is it's too fold. I can't find a training partner and I would, if I could, it'd be awesome. But I can't find a training partner that is willing to deal with my limitations after training for almost 40 years. You know, I'll start next time. I've been like, it doesn't feel right. I'll go to an algorithm, something else. I don't have to explain it to a training partner or justify it. Now, if I have someone follow me around, I love training with my wife when I used to love training with my wife, God love her. When she was very serious and her because she would literally just follow me and I didn't get argued with, I didn't, not argued. But wouldn't be like, well, let's do this instead and I don't want to do that because there whatever for whatever reason there's limitations. But the other part is important to me too and that is this. And this isn't right or wrong or I'm, you know, my approach is better than anybody it's just my thoughts on it since I've come into it since I was 14. I came in by myself. And to me it's such a me thing. I don't know if it's control. I've never worked with a prep guy. I've never worked with an attrition. I've never worked with a trainer. I just want it all to be about me. And I know that sounds bizarre or very narcissistic but I just want total control of everything. If I want to change something, I change it. If I'm running behind 30 minutes, I don't want to have to rush or feel rush or that I'm holding someone else up. The last one, their times are all trained at a different gym. I think most of you guys have you know, membership's to three or four gyms or you know, access to different gyms. It depends on the equipment that is there. Try to get a training partner to meet though. It might be a backwork out the following week that I want these two exercises instead of, you know, the two that I did the prior week. I need that control and I need that flexibility. So there's no way that I can train someone unless I'm paying them a lot of money to follow me around. And I like my money so I'm going to keep it. Well speaking to like, when you like, you know, back in the day, like, did you have a training partner or was it more of the same spot itself? I have trained with training partners and I'll say this. In almost 38 years, I can think of four that were great. And luckily Jimmy was a great one. But I was being paid for that very, very well too, but we clicked so it worked. But there were times, he'll tell you if he was on right now, he'd be like, skip never showed up on time for what I'd be five minutes later. If you know, I andrew you guys know, I'm always running behind it. Used to blame it on the four kids. But now that they're grown out of the house, I don't have that anymore. So there were times where it worked very, very well. You can get in three, if you have two training partners or three of it, that would that's ideal, because if one seems to be dragging his assors having a bad day, you're still feeding and then the two of you are chiding him to get back like whatever that is, that's not important. Get back on and there's more of a bang bang. And here's the funny thing. If I'm by myself and someone works in me, I work in with them. If they're stronger than me, it does take me up a notch. Yeah, sure. I will push a little harder. But I always pride myself. I'm never going to be the biggest guy I never have been. Never going to be the strongest guy. Never have been. But I do want people to recognize. I don't need the attention, but I want them to recognize, you know, what that mother fucker might be outwork in the vast majority of people in this gym with solid mechanics. I want to convey, I know what the fucking doing and I want to be respected in that sense. So I, I'd like to think I do that, but like I say, I can step it up when I work in with somebody. So it'd be nice. I just, it doesn't happen. It hasn't happened in a long time that I've had somebody that I can click with that it actually fits in works. I feel like for younger guys, it can be a good thing. Especially if, if you connect to somebody who has a little bit more experience than you, there's a little stronger than you are, you can learn something from them, you know. I think that there can be a lot of benefit in that. I think that I've kind of looked at it as like I've gone hiking by myself and then I've gone hiking with a friend and when you go hiking with a friend, you kind of keep the pace up and it's like you keep it moving. I feel like a good training partner can help you with that. I do like three people with three people. I think it works good because that way somebody's always on the machine usually, you know what I mean? It's like, or whatever I do. If you have three people, then it's like once one person's done, the next person goes and it just keeps that pace moving versus you have to be careful with two. If you start talking, you know, then it's like one, two little break and little break turns into a big break. But I've learned a lot from having training partners, but yeah at this point in my life with where I'm at right now, I just, I go out there into the rest of the basement and I just train by myself and I get it done, you know what I mean? One thing I'll say is I train with clients, so like people that I prep and so they're about the same mindset. If you know what I'm saying, they're body builders, they're not or like like my two training partners often Vermont, you know, one of them's a young often coming classic body builder and then the other one was a natural body building champion several years back and so he still knows how to push, but I also want to point out something funny. So Nate Spear just sent me a couple of back shots and they look pretty good. So I took a screen shot of my camera here to say just be like, I'll get back to you in a few and he goes, Carlos, you traders. That's great. I look forward to seeing you guys get on stage. That's going to be awesome. If we could do it, I would love to get both of you on the same show. Go ahead to head podcast before the New York throw. It's something that I don't know. Yeah, you could pull some like Arnold mind trick games kind of thing and then Andrew, you could be like, lose dad, you know, something, you know, you guys could do that. I wouldn't do that. No, no, no, no, no, no. Anyway, this has been a lot of fun, man. You mentioned your sponsors and know you're not a big social media guy, but I'm going to have your your link to Instagram down below. Is there anywhere else that you want people to follow you reach out to anything like that? Yeah. So I do have a YouTube channel. It's just my name Carlos Thomas Jr. But I'll be posting more content for the New York throw on there as it goes. We go along throughout the prep and yeah, if you are interested in any supplements or clothing, check out, probably a date and then I'm rebel. The code is just my name Carlos. Just Carlos for both of them. Awesome. We appreciate Carlos and Carlos planned for project AD Carlos 10. Carlos 10 for project AD and then just Carlos over at Iron Rebels. I'm actually wearing some Iron Rebels sweats right now. Dude, I think too. I'm already really. And shorts. Yeah, I realized it. Yeah. You kid me. These are good pants. I've had them for like five years. I think they stopped making them. They're like a jogger. It's got like a fitted black jogger. I don't think they have them on the side anymore. But if they did, I would suggest everybody goes. Sorry, I just had my elite FTS stuff on. I got a lot of stuff. I'll send you some nice. Yeah, they make good stuff. Bodybuilding brand right now. Yeah, I know me too. Stereotypes. They're true. Right. Well, it's like half my clothes are granite clothes. You know, teacher, it's that they just send me. And then all my pants and shorts usually come from Iron Rebels because they are so comfortable. And they're not expensive. You know, they're very, you know, economical in terms of pricing. And they're comfortable. You wear them with Jim. You can wear them sitting around the house. When I leave the house, you know, it's, it's cool. I like the Iron Rebels. Like the beach huddies. You know, the real thin beach huddies. You know what I'm talking about? I've got like three of those in two of them are the same color. But I just, I like that so much. I got another one. So, whatever. Anyway, guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Go follow everybody. If you want to reach out to Andrew for coaching, you can do so at BodyBerry.com. Reach out to skip at teamskip.com. You can hit me up at McNallyDiats and Gmail.com. And of course, check out our great sponsors, true nutrition, uh, true nutrition.com is our title sponsor. Use our code, think for additional savings. Uh, and of course, strong sports nutrition. If you're in the UK, in supplement source.ca for Canadians. Thank you, everybody, from Patreon. By the way, that question we had was a Patreon question. We'll get some more of those in our next Q&A. We'll see you soon, guys. All right. Carlos, this has been a pleasure. I mean, we'd much appreciate it, brother. Absolutely. Thank you guys for having me on. I really do appreciate it. Again, big fan of all you guys. Andrew, skip. Scott, thanks. And like these guys, this is awesome. And thanks for coming on. I would love to come back on any time. Awesome. Awesome. Any time. We, we, we, we, we, we do. We do me a favor. Uh, text me one of your favorite stage picks. Uh, um, it doesn't have to be this minute, but sometime between now and tomorrow. Uh, and I'll use that as part of the, uh, the cover picture that we put together. And then I'll send you all that after it's all set up. I'll send you a link in the, in the pictures and stuff. Awesome. Thank you so much. Thank you, brother. Carlos, picture over by you. See you, man.

Mike was not someone you wanted to really mess with. Okay. Okay. Mike knew how to throw him. Like he knew what he was doing. Yeah, yeah. He goes, wait a minute. You guys it's not like when you turn pro you can just get anything you want. We could the same stuff you guys get. He's like you take what you can get. He's like for the USA's all I could get was this and this. And that's what I use and use this much of it and this much of it. And then when I did the Olympia, all I could get was this and you know and then you told us, I remember he said, all it takes is one guy at Vanis to get busted and everybody screwed for like three months. Everybody welcome to it's just bodybuilding. I'm your host Bigron part low and of course I got dusty handshaw and the producer Scott McNally like share subscribe comment and yes and remember I'm eating.com get your ice of surge get your all in and everyone should get on the gear. You got your big greens in your mind FK2 get in there 20% off dusty and big ronor your codes. Okay. So what do we got today? We got Mike Madarazo. Yes. Those 90s legend from Boston. And this is from over at the Mr. Muscle YouTube page. He's got a bunch of these little documentaries if you guys want to check them out. The work has ever seen a giant on stage and in the hearts of everyone who followed his journey with monstrous arms and a presence who couldn't ignore, you won over the crowd without ever needing a single tide. But behind that big smile was a story packed with tough choices, painful lessons and power. I don't know his story. You're gonna meet man behind him up. Grab your free workout and come along because this ride goes way beyond body. The arms on him were crazy. I'm sorry. Raw humanity. Mike Madarazo was born on November 8th, 1965 in Boston, Massachusetts. As a boss to grew up in a working class neighborhood where opportunities were rare and everyday life was tough. From a young age, get a learn how to be strong. Not just physically but mentally too. He didn't come from money and didn't have anything hand-a-damned. He was just a regular kid trying to find his place in the world. Inspired by movies like. Raw man, he was really into boxing. He was he. He connected with the grit, the grind, and then never give up attitudes. I'm gonna jump forward a little bit here. Long for his time. We'll be getting his don't mean small dreams. Mike was not someone passionate persistence in the guts to change. You wanted to really mess with. Okay. Okay. Mike knew how to throw him. Like to knew what he was doing. Yeah. Yeah. This was we known as the Mecca of Bodybuilding. Home of the legendary Gold Gym were all the icons train. There he dove headfirst into the pro circuit. In no time he was surrounded by champions, photographers, top magazines, and life-changing opportunities. This is a big for a kid from Boston monster. He was like great. That means we're drained. That same year, Mike made his debut at Mr. Olympia, the biggest bodybuilding stage in the world. Just being up there among the giants was already a huge deal. He placed 16th, but his presence made waves. Can't remember what year he turned pro. But because of the energy he probably probably missed a lot of times. It's not like the power of the power. It's just for the power and same developed. Two muscle groups that would become his trademarks in the years to come. Arms and cat. What's it like apart from other athletes? Was his Rob power combined? Yeah. Those arms are incredible, man. He wasn't the most symmetrical or the most aesthetic, but man, he was unforgettable when he walked on stage. 91. 91. You guys said it's just over 22 inches around 56 centimeters. And his calves were so massive. They looked like they were carved out of stone. His calves were incredible. And his standard when it came to those muscle groups. Yeah. You think there's a specific muscle group that defines a bodybuilder's presence between 1991 and 2001. Bill's arm is completed in seven Mr. Olympia Contests. That alone shows how respected and consistent he was. Even without hitting the podium, he stayed competitive for a solid decade. Something very few managed to do. His best place in came in 1998 when he ranked nine. A huge accomplishment considering how insanely stacked the lineup was that year. That was the peak of his career. Being in the top 10 in any global sport is something to be proud of when you agree. During his journey, Mike got a tempting offer to join the WBF World Bodybuilding Federation. New Lee created by Vince McMahon. Yes. And Guy behind WWE. The organization promised high salaries and a more showbiz approach to bodybuilding. Moderatoz was offered $100,000 a year double what he was making at the time. It's a pretty sturdy bet. He chose to stick with the IFBB. Okay. Where he saw more tradition and real respect for sport. That decision showed Mike was in it for more than just fame. You wanted to grow within the traditional circuit to prove himself against the best. No shortcuts. No flashy contracts. That move made his image even stronger with fans. People saw him as a true warrior of the sport. Someone who couldn't be bought. It also earned him deeper respect within the bodybuilding community. Yeah, that was a big deal. What the time. Do you remember that consistency? You remember people talking about that run? And his connection with the crack. Yeah. Vince McMahon trying to post everybody and take them over to what happened down a little quick. Yeah. The guys that jumped ship were like, oh well, let's see how this goes. But they're screwed. This doesn't work out. They're never coming back. You know what I mean? Like, all went over there. Aaron Baker was one of the big ones who was like really good. And you know, like a bunch of older guys that were kind of like Mike Quinn. Okay. And Tony Pearson and Jim Quinn. Oh, Jim Quinn went too. Yeah. And yeah, there was just there was a bunch of guys that went over. You can brave enough to try them. Of course. Yeah. Yeah. Stream gains made him ignore a lot of important. A huge arms. Erients athletes warned him. Yeah. Training with bad form will record body. But Mike didn't care. He'd rather lift the heaviest weight possible even if his technique suffered. And for a while, that actually worked. His arms blew up. His calves became legendary and the gains kept coming. But in the long run, that kind of approach always takes it to a really foreshadow heavy training. Mike also used substances that are common in pro bodybuilding in a ballic steroids, growth hormone, and diuretics became part of his routine. Years later, he openly admitted these played a major role in the health issues he faced at first. Everything seemed under control. But the constant use mixed with brutal workouts and a poorly planned diet slowly started wearing his body down. If you'd add a heart attack, I think. In 1990, while prepping for the Arnold classic. Oh, yeah. It was diet. I'm sure it would look like overloaded on diuretics and potassium. Stuff that helps you dry out. What can be super dangerous if abused on the day of the contest, his body gave out. It's a veer cramps on stage, lost partial vision. Oh, God. And how to be rushed to the hospital. It was a wake-up call. Something was serious. And they were all using loop diuretics as a journey to go. Yeah. Until then, Mike thought he could handle anything. But right there, he realized he wasn't invincible. Those harmless diuretics nearly killed him. And a worst part, he wasn't alone. Lots of athletes were risking their health. Yeah. There was a bunch of guys that period of time. Mohamed Beniz. He's ahead died from diuretics and stuff. He's got something to change. Yeah. He wanted to keep competing without the show. We just had the months of video. He'd be getting clean up because of diet. Monitor his supplement use and pay more attention to how his body was responding. It was the start of a much-needed shift. But even with the changes, some damage was already done. It was about entertaining. It had to be a lot on here in the show. It did one more Mr. Olympia. But this time, the result was disappointed. 21st place. For most, that would just be a bad year. But for Mike, it was a sign. Maybe his body was asking for a break. Sometimes the hardest fight isn't pushing forward. I didn't realize he went all the way to 01. I remember that. The tiring wasn't an easy decision. But Mike knew that keeping up with the grind could come at a serious cost to his health after he did top. He decided to turn the page away from cameras and bright lights. He went searching for a fresh start. He moved to Modesto, a quiet town in California, a total shift from the buzz of Venice Beach. There, he found a comor, more grounded pace of life. Far from the spotlight. Mike took on a regular job working as a bail-bond. A simple stable gig. It was like going back to his working classrooms. Deep down, he'd always been a regular guy, even with all the fame. So what does your sales bonds mean good to like arrest you if you don't? Is outside of things. So accepting your new reality isn't always you. I wouldn't want to face like Mike. Or does it does a bail-bond's been come to take their house? You should put your house up for someone and they skip. You just say he was a caveman and barely touched a computer. That helped him keep his peace of mind. He didn't care what people were saying about him online. He lived in the real world. He spent his time focusing on his health and reconnecting with what truly mattered. Nowadays, that might seem like a radical move. Yeah, Mike had a few good years there where he looked pretty damn good. I mean, USA is when he was young. He won the USA. He looked incredible. Yeah, you know what I mean? But even far from the stage and living a quieter life, Mike couldn't escape. I can't remember what Yuri died. Dream. I think we'll find out here. In December 2004, his health took a serious hit. He was diagnosed with heart failure and had to undergo emergency surgery. A triple bypass. It was a dream. It was a real sad. But it was the only way to restore blood flow through his blocked arteries. At the time of the surgery, Mike was only 38 years old. For someone who'd spent his life building strength lying on an operating table at that age was a harsh wake-up call. Still, he kept his humor and faith believing it was just a bump in the road. So I think he died of a heart attack in 2014. Okay. The issue wasn't insurance. Get regular checkups. Don't wait for the problem. Yeah, he was all clogged up. Eight of someone who had learned the hardest way possible. Skipping tests, ignoring cholesterol, and living in extremes had cost him way too much. He shared that during his competitive years. His diet was totally unbalanced. He'd eaten to 15 pounds of red meat a day. With no fruits or a dead. He even avoided fruit. I'd have to add up a little bit. I'd be a little exaggerated. Yeah, biggest issue wasn't the food. It was the chemicals. To him, the real enemy was invisible in silence. I feel like people are allowing that around. It's really interesting. Mike's no scoundrel. He might just go around more about my ability to go, you know, and how if his words were wrong on us. He wasn't trying to watch the sport. But people literally just try to warn those just getting started. He said he would have rather lived like his grandfather. So I met Mike a couple of times. No kidding. Yeah. Yeah. And he was funny, man. He had a guess posing an Edmonton that we drove down for. I was like, we had to drive like five hours to go see him at one of the supplement stores had him in the mall. Yeah. And he went and did a seminar. They rented like the movie theater for the seminar. So like, you know, he just didn't have a movie screen was behind him, but we were just sitting in like the movie theater and he had like the little stage there. Yeah. And he just had this like really informal seminar. We sat and he answered he talked for a while. It was really good. And then when the seminar was kind of over, he said, okay. So you know, all questions you guys fire away. So people start asking questions, you know, and there's questions coming. And after a few minutes, you know, and at this point, we're all like, I think I was like 20 years old or something at the time. Yeah. So we're all sitting there. We all kind of got some, you know, we want to ask him the good questions, right? Because this is way back before like, you don't get to talk to anyone about this stuff. Yeah. Right. And then, you know, there's a couple bunch of us monkeys kind of looking at each other and then finding my goes, okay. I know there's some of you here that we really want to ask me like real questions. So feel free like, okay. Yeah. And so everyone kind of looks at each other. And then the hands just shoot up like 10 hands go up. And the first question was like, you know, how much test you take or something like that. Yeah. Yeah. And he and he just got into it. You could tell he was just waiting for the gear questions. Because he was shopping. And as soon as someone said, like, how much test you take, he's like, well, you know, blah, blah, blah, and he's started talking and then everyone's like, oh my God, he's actually telling us. And then so the hands just like don't stop everyone's like, you know, how much out of our do you or, you know, and he's like, yeah. And it was funny because some of his answers were like, in hindsight now they're funny because someone asked him like, what he, you know, this and that and he's like, he goes, wait a minute, you guys, it's not like when you turn pro, you can just get anything you want. We get the same stuff you guys get. He's like, you take what you can get. He's like, for the USA is all I could get was this and this. And that's what I use and use this much of it and this much of it. And then when I did the Olympia, all I could get was this and, you know, and then he told us, I remember he said, all it takes is one guy at Venice to get busted and everybody's screwed for like three months. He's like, you know what I mean? Not like certain items. Like the guy who gets the G. H. Right. Something happens to him. And like there was like 50 pros at Golds. I was like, fuck. Yeah. And so he just said, like, you know, if you ever wonder why one year at the O, when he guy looks really great in the next year at the O, he doesn't look as good. He's like, he's like, it's not all the same every year. It's not like, so it's just funny. And then I remember he, he had a sweatpants pulled up over his calves a whole time. Okay. Because his calves were so crazy that everyone just wanted to. So I remember someone said, show us your calves and he's like, everyone wants to do the calves who just pulled his sweatpants up and he left them up the whole seminar. And then he goes, well, you guys probably want to see some shots say and everyone's like, yeah, so he, he peels down like he's not really gasposing, but he just peeled down like he just dropped his pants down and hit like a few shots and and he was like offseason, right? And he had this NPC tank top on underneath and it was like cut off. Yeah. And, um, and I remember I just jokingly was like, oh, by that tank top off, yeah, you know, like have my grand arousal tank top, you know, like, just be cool for like back to air something. Yeah. And you know, like, because some guys collect like jerseys and stuff, so anything was a big deal. I was just like, I just jokingly kind of said, like, you know, there's, you can't collect a jersey for bodybuilding, you know? Right. Yeah. I was like, oh, I have that tank, I got by that tank top off. He only goes, no, man, he goes, hey, if I give you this tank top, will you, will you wash it and where we're, will you train in it? Yeah. And I go, yeah, and he goes have it and he just threw it to your kidding me. No, so he just threw me his tank top and then I caught it and I realized it was soaked. He's even like sweating the whole seminar. He's like sitting there sweating at this sweatshirt on. Yeah. So when he peeled the tank top on and said to put it back on me through it to me and everyone's like, oh, and like caught it and I realized it was soaked. I just kind of stared at him like, well, you can wash it. I'm gonna wash it. Yeah. So I can't remember what I did, but I kept it and I washed it and it was like I used to wear it under my boat neck shirts. Yeah. So I have the yellow, the yellow NPC tank top on with the boat neck shirt over top and every, but the only problem was it wasn't, I couldn't just wear it as a tank top because Mike used to crop all his tank tops. Yeah. So it was cut way too short. So it only, it was, it was only for under the boat neck. Okay. You know what I mean? Yeah. So, but it was just so crazy. It was just so funny. And then that would have been like 92. Okay. So then fast forward to 96. My first time at Gold's Venice. Yeah. And I'm in the gym and I look up so this is like four years later. Right? Yeah. I look way up where the bikes are and Mike's up on one of the bikes. Okay. And I go, oh Mike might arasms here. And I was like, I'm gonna go up and like, say hi and just like bug them afterwards, right? Because he's on the bike for all. And I was doing my sets of strain and I kept looking up and I'm like, I still up there. Okay. He's not going anywhere. And I, you know, I'll finish doing, but he was doing back and I finished doing back and then I went up the stairs and as I came up where the bikes are, he like turned and looked right at me. He goes, hey, how you doing? Like I'm walking towards him and I go, good. And he goes, you're the kid from Canada. You're kidding me. And I go, yeah, Ron and I like kind of stood sideways and shook his hand because he was still in the bike. Yeah. And he goes, I gave you my tank top. He still have it. Damn, he really got this. Yeah. And I go, yeah. I go, I didn't think you'd remember. He goes, I remember everybody. Oh, dude, that's cool. And he goes, yeah, yeah, yeah. And then he just started talking, I mean, you think what you're doing down here? You come down to get discovered? And I was like, no, just on a holiday, like just to kid on a holiday, you know? Yeah. He's like, yeah, blah blah blah. And then I remember he said something like, don't make too many friends around here. There's place to each up. But like, they could bust an accent. He's like, yeah, he's placed in each up. He was just funny. And he was like, such a nice guy and personable and totally remembered me and he was like, yeah, I think he's behind that he had. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, there's been a few people that really impressed me with like, you know, he was like a good dude, real good dude, you know? That's cool. And I heard some great stories about him like he was a real boxer. He boxed like for years and years. He came from like a family of boxing, I think. Okay. And I just heard like you didn't like cross a line like there is a line. And it's totally reasonable line. But if you cross it, Mike, my arousal punch in the face. And there's a few people that told me stories about Mike, like sometimes people at Golds, I mean, you get some crazy people in there that don't didn't know their boundaries back then. Yeah. Yeah. It's good. It learned them. Oh, yeah, you learned a quick mic around. And he was a big dude like, you know, as like, you know, you say 510 to 50 or whatever. But like he had like big midsman. And you looked at it when you talked to him, his neck, you were like, God damn, how hard would you have to punch this guy in the head? Because the neck is just so big. I give no, like the neck, you just be like, I would not want to ever be in a problem with this guy. Yeah. I got a little training footage of him. This is a short little clip. Some arm work out, stuff from 93 here. It's classic, you know. I'm going to the training. Training with this gun. I'm. Kind of a plan, a little kind right now. I'm just a little stretching out of your mind. I can't do nothing. Is it a good fun? I don't do it. What an accent. You don't want to see where. Look, you want to see where. Don't you? Yeah. You can tell he's a character. Just from here. He's a little character. Yeah. So this is the arrow and you were there, Ron. Yeah, man. This is right around that's that mirror. That's the famous mirror back then. Yeah. That's the stairway and that's the cardio up top there is where he was. Okay. I got top above that gold sign there. Yep. Yeah. The non pumped look. Yeah. What year did you say you were there? 96. 96. Okay. So few. Yeah. Three years later. But the gym was pretty much the same. Yeah. Had to be a same cruise. Some more of the exaggerated measurements. I'm a little. That's 21. I'm 20. I'm bigger now. Look at that valetio belt. The zebra stripe valetio. Aw. I didn't get one of those now. Yeah. Hey, what if they still have the zebra stripe? I feel like they should order an old valetio. Yeah. Training arms. Old VHS TV. That's amazing. Yeah, it's a shame, man. Like I said, I didn't know a lot of his story. And I knew he had an untimely passing, but I feel like we know better now, you know. Then I guess the guys did back then. We should die at Reddix. Yeah. And your right Scott that early 90s is when like like, I mean, obviously, they've been around for a long time. People have been using them for decades. But that early 90s, everyone was going hard on the loops. Yeah. Like real hard. But it also, the like, I mean, yeah, there were some terrible stuff. But like guys, well, that was the problem was the loops. The loop dioratics were such a hit and mess that you'd get someone who would look incredible. Yeah. And then the next guy would do it. Need just whole year were going to shit. Yeah. Like my whole lady is not you. Yeah, I mean, you ever go. What? That water jug. That's very difficult to drink. I like. Yeah. Yeah. She was the company president that would be 300 pounds. Ranging very big. What's up, David? We're going to have a drink. I'm going to skip forward a little bit. Oh, there's not a lot to do this. That's a string tank. Or didn't tank that was ever gets any more of a string. It would just not be there. You're just not wearing a shirt. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You guys here's a here's a question. Have you guys ever gone to the grocery store in that level of tank top? One time, one time after training. And then I never did it again. That that string of a stringer. Not like that. No. I never were stringing quite like that. But it's closest I had ever gotten, you know, and I just is not my not my style. Not my favorite. I think that's the earlier like when you're smaller. Yeah. I went out and wear stuff like that. Like when you get routine for a time where that. And then when I got really big it became largely shirts, you know. Yeah. Yeah. I think yeah. I might have gone to the grocery store in a tank top just a couple times when I was like really, really close to a show younger. Yeah. You know, just kidding. You don't want to do that. No, and then he realized it's a hassle. Yeah. I remember doing my tan on Friday. I was going to take a round. There's 200. I'm in a pile. And I stress the tape. So I always play free. That's the day I said I was well done. But I think that might be my pain. For a guy in my height. The 23 inch arm. God. Yeah. He's wild out. Clean walls were at Venice back then. Yeah. Yeah. I just seem so bare compared to what you used to now. That's the bicepinator. That's what I use. I love that. Yeah. Brains got in that in his garage. Mike. He was popular. He always had a lot of fans lined up to meet him and he's one of the summer. So like I said, the mess. Me right now was already there. So I told him to jump now. He's doing stuff for show. You know, classic. And I basically try to go and go and go and go and go and go and go. So Mike is a guy. This is I can't help but think this. He wouldn't have made much money from bodybuilding. He might have had a weater contract for a while. You know, he was a magazine guy. So he might have been paid for a while. And but but he would have been the type of guy that would have really benefited from what we have now with the film is in the Instagram because of the he had a personality and he was funny. Yeah, you could just in this little you know, the way he talks to the camera. He's like totally on board with the whole, you know, talking to the fans saying, you know, you guys want to see arms, right? You know, like some guys didn't make his name video to. Yeah, some guys didn't quite get that, you know, and Mike and you look now and you're like, he would have done pretty damn good now. Like he would have been able to make more money. He would have been more well known. He would have been able to get himself out there and talk to people. And yeah, you know, it's because this sake of all those guys that were really good, like the vicious competition even get a pro card back then. But then they get lost in that like I can compete with Flex Wheeler and Chris Quorumier and I'm not going to ever be those guys. So now I'm like 20th at the Olympia 16th at the Olympia. And the money is just it's hard, but nowadays Mike would have been far better off. Yeah, you've been for sure. You know, who wants to listen to him talk about arms, you know, like, he would have signed up. Yeah, he'd have his own like calf ebook, you know, I know. Yeah, yeah, he would have gone through all that whole phase of ebook phase or the ebooks. Yeah, they still do a man. Oh, no, I know. YouTube channel, you know. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I do my own calf ebook that gives me some ideas. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, no, I know. I know. Is it good? I'm a thought about Mike for a long time. Yeah, you know. It's cool. It's cool to learn a little bit more about it today too. I also stole a signature line from him. So there's there's two things I write on my photos. The one that I write the most is train like hell. And I stole that from Paul Dillett and he wrote that on a photo from he once. And and I still use it all time. But I also stole something from Mike. He wrote on a photo. He wrote sickness for thickness. And I wrote that on a whole bunch of photos sickness for thickness. And I was laugh a little bit when I write it on a picture. Because I know an else knows where that comes from. But I stole that. Mike wrote that on my picture. And I was like, I remember looking at it going. Oh, fuck yeah, sickness for thickness. And then now actually it's a little joke with dusty nights. What I write on the ladies' pictures. I write train like hell for the guys. And then if this is like a lady, I write sickness for thickness. She doesn't she doesn't know it's just for her. She does now. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, thanks to Mike. That's classic. You know, you got to take a little bit from where you come from and give it back to the world gentlemen. Roll it through. You know what I mean? Yeah, so thanks for that Scott. That was good. That was memory lane. You know, I said I learned a little bit too because I didn't know a lot about him. I knew his physique. But I and I knew it was untimely the he passed, but I didn't I didn't know much about his story or that personality, man. I want to see more of his stuff now. You know, yeah, yeah, he also knew like I remember at the seminar. He was telling some stories. Yeah, but we were all just jaws hanging open. He didn't give a fuck. He just let it all out there. That like he's like, yeah, you know, we used to go to this guy's house to get gear and he was like sketchy. And he's talking about guns laying everywhere and the guy also sold pot. So then you're like, oh, there's big and back then, you know, like we've a super legal right. Right. Especially in the States. He's like, yeah, so you got to sketchy dope heads coming over to get their weed, but then you want your gear. You're passing him in the hallway and you don't know who and he just told me how sketchy it was. I'm not coming over anymore. You got to come and meet me like, and he's trying to like get his gear dealer to like come and meet them and I mean, we're all just sitting there like, oh, and this story had a seminar. Yeah, the seminar. We're like, keep him coming. Yeah, yeah, yeah, then into people like, like, don't ask questions. So I ended up just sort of talking. Yeah, no. And he just didn't care. And then he told a story about some guy like trying to rip him off at a deal. So he like punched the guy out and like, he's just sitting there talking. Everyone's like, I can't believe this is happening. Yeah. You're expecting like, you know, while I do three sets, you know, and this is something with the store. The supplement store owner sitting right there. He's like exploding. He's like, look at it. The crowd. Like, is this okay? So that's a great time. It's pretty it's in, you know, in the morning. I take 10 grams. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But if you open your mouth like that, you're going to get shut up. Someone's going to shut you up. It's amazing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, it's like one of the greatest seminars I ever went to to be honest. That's what you know, how do they get better than that? Yeah. You know, tough to beat. Yeah. Okay, gentlemen. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and bring them. That's right. Remember, I'm meeting them. Calm 20% off. Avoid people. Get your all in. Get your ISO surge. Get your mind. FK get your big greens. You need that one gram dose of spirulina. And everyone should get on the gear. Okay. Thanks, gentlemen. It's dusty. Codes. Yes. Yeah. We're on dusty. Use them. It's just body building. Reacts.

his way of presenting his ideas is going to peel with someone who has an affinity for that type of a mindset. Who would like to know that they've got the answer? Because it's a very clarifying thing to have. I mean, anybody, especially now, who's just starting out and trying to figure out which way is up, how should I train? Who should I pay attention to, Charles Pollock-Winter or Mike Menser? The way that he's, even the way he says that and he's sort of, you know, what's Paulic and down, it's like, there's a cult of personality that some people are attracted to behind that way of behaving presenting your ideas. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Muscle Minds with Scott Stevenson. I've scouted McNeil and all of our programming is brought to you by be your own body building coach. Go to Scott's book, you can get it at Amazon, be your own body building coach, the hard cover, or you can go to be whyobccoach.com. You can get the ebook there. We are also brought to you by trunetrition.com. You can use our code, think, high quality through party test and supplements. I just picked up their creatin. I feel like it's a lost supplement that we all forgot about. I'm getting back on it. We're brought to you by Stromsports Nutrition for those of you in the UK and supplement source.ca for our Canadian followers. We've got some fun today, guys. I guess this is going to be like a reaction video, isn't it, Scott? Yeah, it is. We've got some Mike. That's maybe. Yes, well, kind of. But this is kind of like our opportunity to hang out with Scott Stevenson and listen to Mike Menser talk and get Scott's reflections on what Mike has to say. What are the things that you agree with? What are the things that you possibly think could be improved upon? Because nobody's perfect. Nobody's thoughts are perfect, but Mike Menser came up with a slew of great ideas and I think from there they've been evolved down. So I don't know, man. Should we start this video right from the beginning? Do you think or I think we could just probably dive into the middle of it or so? I don't think there's any specifics about what we need. So what was this was a speechy game at a university somewhere or something? Yeah, back right on this. I don't have any lecture. Yeah, just as full lecture. I don't have any background on what it actually is. So, especially to stimulate an adaptive response in the form of a muscle mass increase. Repeating tests that are well within your existing capacity do nothing to stimulate growth. If you can curl 100 pounds for 10 reps and all you ever try is 10, body has no reason to grow. You have to attempt tasks that are beyond your existing capacity. That's what stimulates growth. And of course, how does the body building orthodoxy and exercise science have you trained? Not to fail, you're oh no, there's something apocalyptic, right in your diet. Don't train to failure. You might throw a third eyeball or hair on your body. So, you're not there. Don't train to fail. So, there's an interesting notion here. And I agree with what he's saying, but the context that's important because he's kind of getting into a volume training, where you wouldn't go to failure versus training to failure. And attempting to do something that you're incapable of doing. It's almost paradoxical, really. You're trying to do something you've never done before, but if you do it, you're capable of doing it. So maybe you're shooting for 13 reps. You've only done 10 and you only get 11 or 12. That makes sense. Psychologically, for some people, depending on how well they do with setting up goals. Because if you set in your mind's eye that you're going to get 14 reps and you do that repeatedly, then you're never actually achieving what you set out to. You don't have victories. The Jordan pops into my head because I just saw a couple of videos that he's been popping up and I liked them, of course, where he's setting PRs, he's got numbers and he gets his numbers and powerletters this all the time to get their numbers. That's the whole point. So the other thing that you can counter, like, of course, Mike's out here to engage in conversation with which would be awesome, is that also you can, if you do repeated efforts, each of which is within your capability. And of course, if you do them, then it's within your capability. That the stress constitutes an overload. It's just in that little clip that I saw and I'm tossing in because it's the point of this reaction of the impossing in my thoughts as I listen, thinking like, what's you going to get to next is if you provide a stimulus that could then be a volume overload so to speak. So if you've only ever done five sets with what we'll use the reps and reserve terminology, do you not go into failure? And now you increase the volume, the summary of that can also constitute an overload of sorts because it's a stimulus that your body is not or your muscle or the muscle your training has not been created to expose to. So that he hasn't said that maybe he's going to get to that. I don't think that that's where he's going to this, probably just not having an idea of what we're administered as what his perspective is. And I agree with that in large part, but you have a sliding ceiling terms of number of sets. And then you have a sliding scale in terms of effort level. And for some people, one rep shy of failure or zero reps in reserve could be plenty of not set to go to failure. And those things are inversely related to one another as to how you can combine those in the context of creating your training stimulus. Yeah, yeah, that's what your F-Shive failure versus five sets of failure. What works best for one person might work better for another less well for another person, vice versa. And I've noticed in my own training, you know, before I had gotten sick a couple of years ago and that kind of changed everything for me, my ability to get closer to failure and get a lot out of that was completely different than it is today. So today, I'm leaning more into volume in order to make up for the fact that I can't. My sliding scale is shifted whereas it was very, very low volume, very high intensity. Now it's kind of gone the opposite direction in order to still be able to do what I love. You know, it's what it comes down to. Yeah. Yeah. There's quality of effort and quantity of effort and you can provide overload to certain green in both of those ways. Hmm. So, and there's more to that in your wants, but let's let Mike talk for a bit. Yeah. Brandt will grow up. Well, you're a dangerous well, Brian Johnson and I in a bunch of 10, at least 10s of thousands of others in the world have been training to failure for 20 years and never bothered me. There's nothing wrong with training to failure. You have to train to failure to stimulate a strength and sizing freeze. Again, this is the point repeating tasks. Pause pause there. T a a a a. Yeah. So we can, I mean, now it's like I can't pick on Mike time, but a lot of a lot of the best, the strongest people in the world power lifters who soul purpose is strength, avoid failure intentionally. And don't try it. So you like that statement in of itself that you have to train to failure for strength gains is like there's there's plenty of evidence against that. So that's that's not a completely true statement. Okay. Do think though that the further along you get in terms of your training, if you're effort levels, what are the things that happens with training, one of the adaptations you have is that you're able to train harder. Yeah. There are things that happen, there are physiological adaptations, there must go adaptations, there's also psychological adaptations. So if at some point in time you're not pushing yourself psychologically and training harder to harder, which means you're going to come closer to an actual failure rep would be, I think your gains are going to come to a halt unless you continue to push in that dimension as well. So if we're size, some way of training hard or some degree of effort is going to have to increase according to the law of diminishing terms, your diminishing returns over time. Yeah. So coming closer to failure is one way that that can happen. Or if you take up or it's a great example, people go and this happen to fill teeth when I think he trained with him for the first time ever back in the day. And so his guy named, who was, kind of, Cynthia, who's a German guy who has done some videos now with with Jay and Jay still training his out in Vegas. He's trained at the Dragon Slayer, at least he was there this one day. And it was like, I'm God, I just keeping up with Jay is tough. So and this is like right before he's got it from her show, but that was an overload because Jay trains with surely sure restorinals. So effort level is that other thing, closer to failure is one way you can sort of quantify objectively to effort level. So anyway before we get too far into it, I'll throw this question up that Scottie Devon port had. I said, what you guys say that volume is more improving neurological ability or skill in the movement perhaps the mind muscle connection than breaking down the muscle and building muscle. The way I see it is maximum intensity equals muscle growth and volume equals skill. So there's purpose for both and they aren't the same thing. To leave that up don't don't. Yeah, with it. There's going to be a neurological or psychological component. To adapt into any type of training to some degree. Being able to handle more volume is going to be without it out is going to be a function of some degree. It depends on what kind of exercise you're doing. What you're doing like large muscle mass stuff, there's going to be some cardiovascular component. And there's going to be a very important physiological component in terms of muscle endurance capacity. So adaptations in the muscle cells themselves shifts in myociniciforms, increases in buffering capacity, increases in mitochondrial content. So you see this if you look across some of the studies where they examine muscle hypertrophy. Sometimes you see a delusion of the mitochondrial content. So the muscles got bigger in the mitochondrial content and change. Sometimes you see high mitochondrial content. In the individual's who tend to train with higher volume, there was a kind of a classic study that will cram or did many, many moons ago and they took power lifters and bodybuilders and they ran them through a high volume training regime. And this is like a kind of a classic piece of information that kind of gets it what Scotty's saying there. And those power lifters got destroyed because they weren't used to that. They're lactic acid levels or higher. They're performance dropped off, rep by rep. They just weren't able to hang with the type of training the bodybuilders had already been doing. But what you see in power lifters is they don't tend some of them do because they've just got that genetic facility. But they're not trying to get as big as bodybuilders. Bodybuilders are trying to gain muscle size. Power lifters are just trying to be as strong as possible. So you don't see a lot of power lifters who have definitely a muscle hypertrophy. But their strength is tremendously better than that of some bodybuilders. With obviously exceptions, staying after being Johnny Jackson, that's sort of a funny home. But you look at like there was the classic Fred Hatfield versus Tom Platt squat off. Yeah. Right. Remember that? And Hat felt he was pretty, a thousand pounds squat and I think he's squatting. Like 800 something pounds maybe at that particular thing. And then they, and I think Tom swatted like a couple hundred less than that. I can't remember even what his max was. But then they dropped down to that 500 pounds squat. You won the clattiness that video that is just never gets old watching. And Tom is bangs out 23 reps with 495 or 500. And like I think Hatfield got like 10 something like that. We got destroyed. So he had tremendous neurological adaptations to strength. But he didn't have the muscular endurance. So if you're looking, if you're thinking terms of muscle mass, obviously Tom's legs were much bigger. Yeah. He had more muscle mass to engage in a squat. But Hatfield was, had, had, had a much stronger squat. That's because he was able neurologically to do that lift, activate that muscle, coordinate the contraction. He also was probably squatting with a low bar so he had a biomechanic advantage and that sort of thing. But he had trained neurologically that skill to, to squat really, really heavy. And then when he went down and weight, he still would have that skill ability, right? He still is, is literally still would have that improved efficiency in terms of doing the concentric work with limit amount of muscle mass. Just trying to do more reps with a lighter weight and he got destroyed by Tom. And that was, and the argument I think could be made and substantiated. That's probably because Tom plaques, what you see in many bodybuilders, especially in the older studies, probably had a lot of type one fibers. Yeah. That maybe, maybe, or smaller in size, that had a good deal of mitochondria. See, and Tom was known for incredible muscle endurance, right? So that's, he had muscle, high-perchity, that was associated with that adaptation in the muscle that included the muscle endurance. So that was not a neurological thing. The Tom, Hatfield had the neurological adaptation. But he, he didn't have the, he had, but he had more of a muscle and Hatfield, I know this from, it hurt at various places, but I know this from a guy, Rock Gullix and was named as a strength coach, he was the Texas when I was there. And he competed a couple times with Hatfield and Hatfield, he was just smoke backstage, like behind behind the curtain or he got out to spot because he was totally addicted to cigarettes. Wow. Right? No kidding. Yeah, he was literally smoke. But it doesn't matter. You're just doing, like, he's under the, you know, 10 seconds. You get up, get set up, do the thing. It's not like he's going to run out of oxygen in those 10 seconds. Yeah. But that was probably one of the things that limited to for that squad. He probably got to wear like, holy shit. You gasped out, you know, after six reps. Yeah. Yeah. Right? So there's neurological and you can't really separate them out, but I would, I would think that volume is going to be a matter more. Some of it's psychological, which is persevering to that, but more a matter of, especially if you do that, the adaptation that you're going to see, especially in someone who's got a really strong mindset anyway, is as they get better if they've never trained that way, that's going to be a physiological, not really a neurological adaptation. There can be some neurological shifts in activation patterns and synchronization, etc, etc. But I would, I would wager more kind of in the opposite of what's, what's got he saying there, but there's truth to what he says too, because it's not one of the other. It's not black or white. Like most of the most things about he building, that makes sense. Yes, K.S. Repeating tests that are well within your existing capacity, do nothing to stimulate, because you can already do it. Your body already has the capacity to curl a hundred pounds for ten reps. It's only when you try that impossible 11th rep that you stress the existing capacity, you stress or endanger the existing reserve, and the body seeks to protect the reserve by enlarging upon its existing capacity so that no longer will that 11th rep seem like a threat. Did you follow that? Okay, thank you. I could leave right now, I feel some filled. Carrying a set to the point where you are forward. Can you use a lot of time to do it myself? Yeah, yes. Sorry. I was, I've muted accidentally. Um, yeah, so I wonder, I would be interesting to see, it's rather than just digging in and kind of dissecting his come. You'd be interested to see what he would think about some of the higher rep studies that we now have substantial evidence for, you know, like the current state of the research. I know that I forgot the sense that he was more of, um, you know, more of a logical thinker on, on, on Rand and because how you say your name, and Rand, and Rand, um, he used to quote for her very things. I don't think he actually read the exercise science. It was available at that time. Okay. He just sort of thought through these things logically. Yeah. But I mean, should I see what he thought of the studies? And there are flaws there, of course, or issues, and that most of them are with newbies, not with trained individuals. Hmm. Of the higher reps, you know, 30, 40, 50% of one ret max versus 80% of the one ret max training, and you get equal growth. Hmm. So there's, there's something there. Um, and if he would, what he would say to the fact that what happens if he trained light and then take things to failure. Yeah. Guessing he would probably say it's, it's bringing things close to failure, at least with that volume. I'm doing, um, I'm only some, this one get out in time, but probably about when you're, we probably just after, um, you get this or just before you get this, this video out on YouTube. I'm doing a talk up in Tampa. Um, the, uh, excellence cartel. It's the PEC 7. Wow. What they call it's P.C. Something excellent cartel. Yeah. And my talk is on unraveling the mystery of volume sets, wraps or something like that. Okay. Exactly what I titled it. But it's about sort of trying to figure out what the heck is going on here in terms of muscle growth and hypertrophy, um, because you've got these studies, which is, we think of this. You've got these studies like shown field studies, there's also other studies that are short term studies, where there's massive amounts of volume that the subjects were able to undergo. One of them was, um, twice a week, um, eight sets of, in the highest volume group. And there was no sign at this volume, um, level or this, this condition. There was, there was still greater hypertrophy than at the, at the lower volume level and the, and the, even lowest level volume level. And that, and that the higher volume level training, the training was twice a week, eight sets of knee extensions to failure and eight sets of squats to failure. Okay. Imagine, like, regardless, at any time, that's your peak whenever you are the healthiest and strongest and most able to recover going in on mundane doing 12 sets and eight sets of knee extension to failure. And then eight sets of squats are feeling coming back and doing that again on a Thursday and doing that for 12 weeks. That's a lot. Yeah, that's a lot. And what did you say? Did you think of that? It was that they found a grocery response that that wasn't inverted you. So I came up and rejected the numbers, but, um, that was the highest volume and the other, the, the, the next, that was 16 sets for the for the quads and I think the next lowest was maybe 12 and then six. I think like that. Yeah. Or maybe it was maybe it was 10 and I can't remember, but that was the highest volume and they saw basically a graded degree of muscle growth from the lowest to the medium to the highest level of volume. So I'm a, so you see that there's no log diminishing returns there that was evidenced by that particular study. Yeah, lower volume, they got X amount of growth, more volume, they got more growth, highest volume, eight, that eight sets and eight sets, 16 sets. Yeah. Um, it was 32 sets a week. Sorry, I take that back, right? 16 sets twice a week. Right, right. Just crazy amount of volume. Like that's, that's, that's not possible for someone who really trains the failure. Yeah. Um, the way it might have someone trained. Yeah. Yeah. Just, so it's interesting. He probably would just say, well, that research is bullshit. Well, I don't think they made up those numbers. Yeah. I think what, what happens, what happens there. And this is why one way in which volume training can work is that in those situations, there has to be some, a caught sandbag and there has to see the, just some degree. And some of them maybe some individuals who could somehow recover from that, right? Yeah. But there has to be some recognition that holy shit, I've got to, I've got to endure all these sets. Yeah. So they're leading some, they're leaving some reps in these are, yeah. They have to be after the third set of going to like absolute failure. There's no way you're going to do five more on the squad, you know? Yeah. It's just like that's just impossible possibility. So, um, but that's the interesting thing if people are not willing to train a failure. Mm-hmm. And I'm just, they did the according to the study, they trained a failure. But if people engage in a higher volume training regime, maybe because they like that, like to be in the gym, they like to get the bumper, what have you? Yeah. More can be better because some degree. Yeah. Or maybe not even if they, it's maybe what if they can't, you know? What if you're in a position where you can't train to failure? Like if your essential nervousist had gotten completely wrecked from having gotten the bug, and you still want to be able to train and being able to, like for me, taking it to absolute failure would then wreck my entire week after that, trying to like, recover from that, you know, it's just like all sorts of brain fog and all of that. But I can not go to failure and do more reps. So, you know, there, there, I think there's a lot of reasons, or say somebody with like a back issue. Maybe they can't squat to the point where they almost take it off the tracks, you know what I mean? But they can go with a lighter weight, reps in reserve, and still do more sets to make up for that. Does it, yeah? And it's still stimulus. Yeah. Obviously, it still produces more growth and does she spawns fashion? So, the thing that I sort of drive at just to kind of finish off the important part of this really is that what I think and this, where I would agree with, Menser, I think, don't know for sure, is that from the evidence I'm able to find and they don't, they don't, the evidence is the data are there. It just doesn't get published and I've asked a couple times for folks to bring this out, is that my thought is that we've got an adaptive response, right? There's some adaptation to this overload. And if you're doing high reps, which is enduring, sorry, and if you're going to have some adaptation, which is not going to necessarily manifest as strength, you don't see strength gains in those high reps studies. You know, maybe some, but it's minimal. You see the strength gains with people training with heavier weights. You see the best strength gains from power lifters train, and they're trying to improve their strength. So the adaptation is specific. And my thought is that if the adaptation of high hypertrophy is meaningful for the overall adaptation to the type of train that you're doing, you're going to see the best hypertrophic gains, the best muscle mass gains, and those individuals whose performance in that mode of training let's call it. In the high volume lower rest interval, if you're doing it that way, you're going to see the best performance gains go alongside the best growth gains. And if you're training like a Mike Menceerian person, if you double your, with the course of a year, you double your squat, and you double your bench, or what have you, or at 50% versus someone who has half those gains in strength, you're going to tend to see lesser gains in size with the lesser gains in strength. Because strength is more specific, or at least look at your eight to ten rate max. So I think form follows function to some degree. And the thing I think that Mike's take on it was always that the function that produces the best gains in form is the function of training to failure with heavy heavy weights, as opposed to not trained to failure with a higher volume approach, which I suspect also, I'm waiting for, you know, the thing is with these studies, they're doing progressive overload. It's in the methodology, they're tracking the loads that are used, and they're incrementally upping those every week, every two weeks, to ensure a progressive overload. So the data are there. Yeah. All you got to do is take those data that you've written down and used to construct the training program and say, okay, how much growth do we get in these subjects, versus how much do they improve in their weights from beginning to end, or rates, times, or apps, or apps, or whatever you want to do to quantify. They're not publishing that. And that is like, oh my god, come on, come on, this needs to happen, right? Yeah. It's so vital. Like, if we're to know what we can, like, the thing that is so important that I think it gets missed and a lot of these studies is like, what, what, what do you tell in the real world someone who's wanting to put on muscle size? Or let's say you want to have more muscle size that would hopefully carry over in a situation like with an older person so that they have a less likely hit of fracturing your hip when they fall, or that they can use that size when they're out hiking. Anytime we need more muscle mass, right? Just in general, that you can gauge in other activities. What do you tell them, like, what are we shooting for? Well, you're shooting exactly what Mike is saying. You don't do things that are that are easily within your remote abilities. You do things that that are that stress you that that that leads you to getting better at whatever type of training you're doing heavy to failure or higher volume with lower loads and more sets. And we see that there's there there are there is evidence like long term like there's a two-year study with rugby players where you see this nice correlation between strength gains and lean body mass gains. But there's some people who make lean body mass gains without any strength gains. There's like the individual gain of there. And there are some people who make great strength gains and don't have any lean body mass gains. And some of that's probably nutrition. Obviously, yeah that could be a big connector. You can get stronger, but if you don't eat enough, you're not you're not supplying the nutrients in the hormonal stimulus with insulin, what had you to make them make the gains in muscle size. Anyway, all right, there's a little die tribe. 100% of your momentary muscular ability audience is the single most important factor in increasing strength and size. Working to a point of momentary muscular failure, where another rep is impossible despite your greatest effort, ensures that you pass through the break over point or that point in the set below which you go and growth will not be stimulated and above which you grow and growth will be stimulated. Interesting to know here, even the detractors of high intensity training force theory have to admit that the last rep of a set is the most productive. Think about it, the all these people, many of them knuckleheads, who claim high intensity training theory is now what's the first principle of the theory of high intensity training, the principle of intensity? When they say high intensity doesn't work, there's no validity, that's why saying the first rep is better than the last. So if you can current 100 pounds for 10 reps, just do one rep, forget the last line because intensity doesn't matter. Come on, Paul. Pause there. Yeah, so there's actually, I think that Togo is the name of the first author. It's a Japanese study. I mentioned my four-inch rate for a two-training book where they just clearly kind of did this. They took it. It was something like this. This is an exact format, but they basically took them. I think they had two groups. Maybe they did a one-sided training. But anyway, the comparison was something like three sets of 10 to failure versus six sets of five. Okay. Same load, right? Didn't get any muscle growth in six sets of five. Really? The workload was the same. Yeah. No, because of the same load. So you took the three sets of 10. Yeah, let's say, whatever you're doing an incline press and you're doing a quarter and two-of-five and one-eighty-five, you know, you're getting sets of 10 roughly as your fatigue. So then they took those same loads and you have to be like, I think it was maybe as a one-art. I came over to maybe one leg at study. So you take take those same loads and then you just instead of doing trying to take sets of failure, you just do sets of five with a rest interval in there. So you can never get close to failure. So you tall you up the reps, but he's calling intensity effort here, right? So you never have any effortful reps because you take that set. You take that 200 pound load that you could do for 10 and you just do five. Yeah. And then they rested like a minute and they did five more, right? So they were always like like little like five reps in reserve in the example I'm coming up. It was similar design. Interesting. Of course. Yeah. And then makes total sense, right? There's not a stress. There's not a stimulus there. So this is like that's an old study too. It's been around for a while, but it supports exactly what he's getting at the first rep and the rep previous the failure. It's simpler and not the same in terms of the same with that's a idea of effective reps. And there's a nice study out there that did that. That's great. Yeah. I had a client of mine. He's now like good guy for client. I was selling Brian this earlier. He called me several months ago. He was in a quandary. He said, Mike, I don't know. I'm awfully confused. I don't know if I should sign up with you or Charles Pollock and his name is Mac. I said, Mac, if you if you're that confused and you can't see on the face of a difference between Charles Pollock and I, I really don't want you to sign up for him. You deserve each other. Anybody, you can not. This is the point. All the. I'll say about that. Yeah. If you believe that the first rep of a set to failure is better than the last rep of a set, you're either so stupid that you don't deserve my presence as our friend down here's this. Or you just got something very wrong with it. Obviously the last rep of the set to failure is the most productive. Now there have been a few individuals not necessarily high intensity. I because who have raised the intelligent question. I'm not saying everybody who's, again, it's high intensity has no intelligence. They're just on their developmental way to finally embracing this. My mean, that's there. Yeah. Yeah. So it's interesting. And this is just sort of my orange or psychology perspective on this. Is that the accolites of HIT. There is a certain camp of people who are like, this is it. Like there's it's black and white. This is the sort of, at least it's the reputation. I've seen, I haven't read the boards or literally interacted with anyone. I know of some post things, but there's a kind of a camp. Let's say. Yeah. And their reputation at least. And I saw that at this, but it's been a while since I witnessed it any of it for a while. So maybe it's not as bad as it seemed like it once was. It's literally like, our way or the highway. Yeah. And it was, in that sense, it was very, you can say, a leadist like, oh, we know, but you don't, effing no because you're a dumb ass. Yeah. Yeah. This sort of thing. And my, like the way he presents himself there, the thing that's interesting, I think, listen, the voices my thought on this is that his way of presenting his ideas is going to peel with someone who has an affinity for that type of a mindset. Yes. Who would like, like to know that they've got the answer, because it's a very clarifying thing to have. Like, it's, I mean, anybody, especially now, who's just starting out and trying to figure out which way is up, right? Like, how should I train? Who should, like, who should I pay attention to Charles Pollock-Linter or Mike Menser? Like, the way that he's, even the way he says that, and he's sort of, you know, puts Pollock in down, it's like, there's a cult of personality that some people are attracted to behind that way of behaving presenting your ideas. So he could, he could very easily, you know, like, take, let's say you took the idea that the everyday events that were accustomed to are things that don't require repeated continuous persistent effort at a very high level. There's almost nothing that you do, even if you look at construction workers who are out, they take breaks, they avoid fatigue. And that's why you don't see heavily, many heavily muscle construction workers like you do, the most heavily muscle body builders in the world. Almost all of them train with high volume. I'm taking like a minceering way of approaching this, you know, sort of like, and so it's, that repeated exposure to high effortless of a volume that, amount of fun and that produces an overload to which the body is not accustomed that leaves the body to produce this high pre-trophic adaptation. And if you can't understand that notion, then you don't deserve to be in my presence or as Arthur Jones used to say, or as Ronnie Coleman used to say, or whatever, yeah, Ronnie would never say that, of course. So, but the his way of presenting things appeals to sort of your gut instinct to certain degree, it appeals to certain people, desire to see things in a black and white fashion because he says it with such an authoritative and strong tone. Yeah, it does it so it's not. It's sort of out. It's being simplified and that's, I think one of the, that's what we talked about in the last episode with the rat studies that rat studies are all bunk that they're completely gross, right? Because yeah, it's a lot more complicated to think of things in a series of gray tones versus just black and white. I was shocked to hear the opposite a couple of years ago when you and I started talking a lot about high intensity training. And I was so happy to put a video out about that and share some stuff that I discovered about training. And we were met by people who were anti-hit, people who came on the channel and said, it doesn't do anything, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, period. And it was interesting to see the the camps on both sides, you know, and I loved, you said at the beginning of this, there's, there's the lovers, you know, and I think that those lovers are constantly in need of adjustment. What worked really great for me two years ago isn't what works really great for me now, you know? Mm-hmm. Yeah. And then just to support minister, I don't, I don't, I don't think he's a shicester, I don't think, no, I mean, the way he's doing this now, I mean, I think he sort of thinks trans-ronger the course of time. And this is older. This is his 90s older. Yeah, it would have been my tour of the end, I think, you know, later on. I think he truly, honestly, sort of, he does believe what he's saying and he's saying it because he's got a true and honest conviction, not like he's trying to like present himself in a way that let's say, maybe a dishonest, cult leader would in order to attract people who would have a national affinity to follow people who are sort of absolute, it's like that. The other thing that you may be, maybe, um, that's interesting too that, maybe think of was, is that hit, it changed over the course of time. And from what I, right, what I remember, because I've been around for a hot minute to, remember reading when minister was still alive is that he had, like, kind of gone off the deep end people were saying because he was talking about like one set every two or three or four weeks, like once had a month and it got to be too extreme and that wasn't what he was always. So there's, so he, what, what hit means may vary. That has to be sort of defined. If you're going to say that hit, you know, high-intensity training, minister doesn't work. It's like, well, that can't, like, like, like, what are you talking about first of all? And of course, there's all sorts of people. He looked pretty damn good. Yeah. You know, he was, he arguably could have won an Olympia with his physique. So, and I just looked it up. So he died in June 10th, 2001. So this is like three years before that. This is right at the end. You know, okay. All right. All right. Let's hear what I'll see us to say. A few individuals have raised the intelligent question as to whether it is actually necessary to train to failure. They say, Mike, how do you know for sure that a hundred percent intensity of effort is absolutely required to stimulate growth. Maybe it's only 60 cents or 82 or 91. So good question. How do we know? Well, the problem here audience would be in want the one in measuring intensity. There are in fact only two perfectly accurate measures of intensity. Zero percent when you're totally at rest. And a hundred percent intensity when you're exerting yourself with maximum effort. That's kind of a good point that you know what zero is and you know what a hundred is. Those are very definitive. Yes answers. You know what I'm saying? Right. So he from as I understand it, the traditional and this is sort of morphed to over the last few years, which I think is unfortunate because it didn't need to be so. But until maybe the last five ten years intensity and the exercise science literature meant a relative percentage of a one repetition maximum. Okay. Or percentage of a maximal voluntary contraction. So intensity was relative to a maximal effort, a given load, a given percentage of that load at maximal effort. A one-ret max dynamic or an isometric contract could even be an eccentric if you wanted to. So you could quantify that, particularly one-ret maximum density. And then intensity in the lay bodybuilding term is effort, effort level. And if I recall what he said, he's only two ways to accurately measure intensity, meaning effort. Yeah. Is that I think that's how we said it? That's what I'm getting from it. Yeah. Yeah. So accuracy of a psychological phenomenon is a very interesting, calm measurement to make. It's very interesting concepts. Okay. Right? Because what he's talking about doing is using an external performage measurement as an indicator of 100% effort. So failure means that you're subjective effort level is 100%. Right? Right. And I would agree that if someone is truly at 100% effort, there's some issues there too. And then they fail, then you've got a two concepts or two measurements percent effort, which someone would validate as saying or respond as saying to 100% and failure, because they couldn't get him to do anymore. But you can of course measure RPE. And that would have been done long before, you know, this talk was made. And you can estimate reps and reserve. And those don't correspond and actually the cool thing is that we know what we can we can back up what he's saying there, especially with newbies when they are asked to estimate their reps and reserve when they say three or four. And then you push in the failure, they're way off. So they have a very inaccurate psychological perception of the true performance reserve that they have. Yeah. But here's the thing. And this is the side that new ones this. And I'm not a psychologist, both you I can if I can make sense of my understanding of this. Express my express it in the way that makes sense at least is a psychological perception is a psychological perception. It's like saying, out that hurts and you're saying, well, no, it doesn't. It's like, it's my mind, it's my perception. And when someone says, you know, how much has that hurt on scale from one to 10? And you say, and they say seven, you can't say what you're wrong, that's their perception in that moment. Yeah. So that's just their psychological perception. It is a subjective measurement. It all is a matter of how they subjectively proceed that. Yeah. Right. Yeah. So yeah, in terms of terms of having a hundred percent effort and that lining up with failure, that certainly makes sense. Yeah. Because there's like a difference between your psychological perception and the mechanical ability of your body. Right. And what of course changes over time is what you've received to be a hundred percent. Yeah. Yeah. Sure. How does. Yeah. And, you know, in one sense too, I mean, just to this just to kind of invalidate the the association that needs making the equivalency that he's drawing between a hundred percent effort and muscular failure is that you can there's all sorts of beyond failure techniques. You start doing, you know, four straps. Let's say you do four straps and control the negatives and then you do, you know, four straps and even and then add assistance. So someone can still do a controlled negative. Like you can go many reps beyond failure. And your effort levels are going to be higher than it was when you met that reset failure point. And two and you probably know, it looks failure for the biceps or the triceps or what have you a small muscle group in terms of percent effort on an absolute sense is not going to be as much as it is on a squat. Right. We can take a and you're and and then it's also going to differ depending on the load because you're in and I'm talking about intensity now. I'm using the word effort because to differentiate that from intensity as per set one at max. So when I say effort, I mean what mentor means is intensity. So the effort it takes to do a widow maker with squats so the intensity at the end of that is going to be different than if you did a straight set with continuous reps with a unilateral biceps. Right. Being it out also like I can't get any more with good forms. Okay. That was is that 100% intensity? Well, relative to the exercise. Yes, relative what your capable will have known. So I get what he's getting at. But this is this is the thing just speaking from from a scientific perspective and I've done subjective measurements in terms of pain and RPEs and those sorts of things exercise psychology is a really a really tricky area in terms of measuring RPE and reps are reserved and those sorts of things because effort level it's not as if what 100% is going to actually have to correspond exactly when you reach failure. Because it's a subjective measurement and if I reached failure, if I did like a set of biceps, it throws and took it to failure and you say what was your RPE? And I would say in 10 is like maximal effort that you can possibly imagine doing the hardest exercise you've ever done in your entire life. Right. That's your 10. You know, instead of biceps, it throws your failure. It's like that's a six maybe. Yeah, I couldn't get any more reps. I reached failure. That was an RPE 10. I'm close. So yeah, like speaking as a from a scientist of what he's saying, it totally makes sense for the lay person. The concept is valid and it's it's very helpful from an instructive standpoint. But from a scientific standpoint, I think there's some holes in trying to make that equivalency between intensity or effort and failure because it doesn't necessarily match up for the way they just mentioned. Here's the point. So long as you are exerting yourself with 100% intensity of effort, you will have passed through every possible break over point 62% 79 84 93. As long as you go to 100, you pass through every possible gross stimulation point. You see that's why we keep stressing trades and failures. It's not going to hurt you. It's not. Those that's interesting. I'm trying to like, I don't know his philosophy in depth. I haven't, I have one of the videos and I think I maybe started reading one of the books once. He sends this up. There's growth. What do you call them? Growth stimulation points. Like you mentioned those three by those percentages. That seemed like he was suggesting that there are points in the set that actually are stimulating for growth. Just not to the same extent as if you go to failure. I think he was saying that you're going to cover all your bases. If you get to that 61% if you go to 100, then you're going to cover 61 in 75 and 83. I think that's what he was saying. But those are those are break over points. Like so at 83, there's a break over point for stimulate. If you can scroll back. Yeah, let's go back just a little bit here. Hold on a second. I don't know how far I needed to go. Through every possible break over point. Totally at rest. And 100% intensity when you're exerting yourself with maximum effort. So long. Here's the point. So long as you are exerting yourself with 100% intensity of effort, you will have passed through every possible break over point 62%. 79, 84, 93. As long as you go to 100, you pass through every possible growth stimulation point. You see. Yeah, that's what I'm getting from him is that I think he's, I tell me if I'm wrong or if you think it's different. But I'm gathering that let's say that somebody were to think that you were to make great growth at 80%. Well, if you get to 100, then you did do 80. You covered that. You covered all your bases by getting to 100. I think that's what he was saying. Is that's on right? Yeah, that's kind of like that's a valet interpreter. What I understood, he called those growth stimulation points. Yeah. That was the last term that he used. As if there's a break over point or growth stimulation point that occurs at 91% or whatever number he used. I think he okay. So let me develop this. Maybe, I mean, who knows? Because I don't understand exactly that. But that seems to suggest, I wouldn't have called those growth stimulation points. If the idea is that you don't get growth stimulation unless you reach failure, that would suggest that if you go to 91% which is a repertoire shy, there is some growth stimulation to come through that. Right? Well, I told a growth stimulation point. Yeah. I'll tell you do three sets and go to 100%. Yeah. And right, you like what you said, like that's, and you got three sets, it's more efficient. Right? You got all everything you got from 53 and 87 or whatever. Yeah. And you got all in three sets. But let's say in your, like in your situation now compared to two years ago, there's a growth stimulation point that happens at 91 or 93, then you just have to do five sets to cover those bases. Right? Because you're just, you're, you're, it's like, it's like you're getting Easter eggs, you know, along the same. Yeah. You're going to start your growth stimulation points, right? And you can get all five of them, right? All five effect irreps. We're not going to use that. Yeah. Sure. There it is. If you take a set to failure or you can just gather three by doing a few extra sets, three per set and then you just have to do a couple extra sets. You want to get 15, you do three sets of two sets to failure or you can do five sets where you just get three Easter eggs, you know, by going to whatever. Right? Over point. It's a stimulation point. Right? But he kind of contradicts himself a little bit. And with those sound like those are cool terminate, it's cool terminology, you know? Like, and you see there's like in, you'll see, in, when you look at plots, like regression lines and those sorts of things, there's something called it, you can look for inflection points, okay? Where the curvature of the line changes from in a way that's, you can statistically know to you, you can clearly just see these things. Yeah. So he's calling it like a breakover point. Like, like something goes up, like, and then there's a breakover. Don't know quite what that means, but that suggests that there's something to be had at that 91% whatever it might be. Yeah. I think he called it a gross stimulation point. Yeah. He did use that term. I don't know if maybe he was just trying to sound bigger, something, but he said what was it? It was just a little bit before that. I think if I went back a little bit further. I didn't question. And as to whether it is actually necessary to train to failure, they say, Mike, how do you know for sure that a hundred percent intensity of effort is absolutely required to stimulate growth. Maybe it's only 60%, or 82, or 91. And I think he's saying, well, guess what, if you go to a hundred, you covered 60 in 91, and all that. I think that's that's where he's going to make sense. But he does say if you let it play, you does say 91 is a gross stimulation point. So good question. How do we know? Well, the problem here audience would be in what the one in measuring intensity. There are in fact only two, perfectly accurate measures of intensity. Zero percent when you're totally at rest and a hundred percent intensity when you're exerting yourself with maximum effort. I see where you're going with this now. I see what you're saying. So here's the point. So long as you are exerting yourself with 100% intensity of effort, you will have passed through every possible break over point 62%, 79, 84, 93. As long as you go to a hundred, you pass through every possible gross stimulation. I see what you're saying now. I see what you're saying now. Right. It's just getting those like, maybe we'll get them all in one fell swoop, right? Yes. But it's kind of suggest that you get some along the way, you know? So I wish that would be a great one if you were in the audience, you could raise your hand. So I can ask him about that, you know? I mean, that's what I might say. I think he said 93% in that. Yeah. He may say 91, previous. So Mike, you know, what is the for someone who, you know, for safety reasons or, you know, let's say have a respiratory limitation. They just simply can't go to a hundred percent intensity. Can they gather together gross stimulation points? Easter eggs. I've been doing by doing more sets and not going to failure. I mean, because he's literally like he's he's like literally he's really in that last clip and that could be just like he just sort of made a mispoke because I'm agree, but he's talking about what we now commonly for two as the effective reps paradigm. Yeah. You know, it's not like 60, 61% and I'm thinking like, you know, the six rep of a 10 reps set or when your RP is six, like that's not going to be effective necessarily, but in the 80s and 90s where your RP would be 8 or 9, yeah. He's talking about break over points and that's, that's his own terminology. I don't, I've never heard that. I don't really know what exactly what he means, means by that. Yeah. But anyway, yeah, interesting. All right. This is the epic A4. Point, you see it. That's why we keep stressing trades and failure. It's not going to hurt you. It's not only as a desirable, if absolutely necessary so that you know you stimulate it, grow. Does that help anybody? I see where you're going with that. No, it's good. Most of you know this all the way. No, it's new material. Some of this. So this is an interesting thing. I mean, there's another thought there. I could, I could, like every sentence I can like have something to say. The thing that's inching in the context of this in 2001 is that there was, I mean, this is 2001, right? 98, he passed away. 98. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So this is 98. Is that the year running one of this first Olympia? 98. Yeah. Look at that up. It was a 99. It was right around there. Anyway, we had during the eights. He's just so he's on the tail end of during the eights career. Yeah. But then we had Ronnie Coleman, you know. And Ronnie trained hard. But you don't, you don't see this, you know, and Ronnie was, he used a little body. But you don't see like these these grinding reps for Ronnie is going to failure. 98. 98. That's what I was thinking. So this may have been for after one. But, but training failure is not the only way you know you stimulate growth, aside from all that. First of all, there's all these other body builders who've done really, really well, stimulating growth without training failure like Jay Cutler. And then, you know, you can also, you can also track, let's say if you are consistent in your intensity, leading one at your reps in reserve or what have you. And you're tracking your progress in the gym. And you're watching your, you're, you're, you're, you're tracking your body composition and you're using the mirror. Yeah. And the scale. Those are other ways to know if you're making progress. Absolutely. So it's, but in the, you know, micro scopically in training. And this is why I include failure sets in four to two training. If you're looking, looking to be, ensure that you've got some form of progressive overload, pick the exercises that lend themselves best to taking, you know, six to 12 reps sets those loading sets in four to two training to a failure point. And or look at the loading sets themselves and see where they're progressing. They're just like DC training. Yeah. It's very much progressive overload. So, so you know, you're going the right direction. Yes, right? But it's not the only way. It's not the only metric. There's many, many others. But this is, this is where I think people, people want to, you know, dig in and sort of nail, message to the cross because he was so unidimensional in this failure, notion of failure, you know. Yeah. He was, you know, this was his way, the highway there. And he doesn't step in and see, you know, the other ways, other ways that you can like just in that, in the statement itself, it's very black and white. And the evidence is against it. There's plenty of body loaders who don't train failure. We're pretty damn big. Yeah. I think though, you know what, part of that might have been if we looked at like the, if we looked at the social climate of when he came into the picture, that the, the, the opposite was the only way, you know, the weir, the weir principles, you know, that we're sitting here. Yeah. And that he was highly speaking out against that. So it kind of, I think for him, became a crusade and probably the because of that social context had to dig his heels in even deeper, you know, because he's, he's arguing for the fact that, you know, I, I think what, what do you think the problem is Scott? Do you think it, and with our society, and I guess this is our community bodybuilding, what is the bigger problem? And this is, I guess, an opinion question is that people are doing too much volume and not going to failure or that they're not doing enough volume and, and, and just going to failure. I think that, you know, a lot of times we, we aren't giving enough intensity. The intensity is that we often have too much intensity or often have not enough. So I think that he's maybe trying to swing that pendulum to award intensity, any, he's taking a really extreme stance to do that, you know? Yeah. I mean, the thing that is going to support his efforts and support the results of the people that do take his take his tack on, can they take, take an HIT approach? Because if you truly believe in it, you know, you're not just like, oh, shit, I'm going to give this, or give this an eight week world, but I don't really expect it to do much. Yeah. You can't have that mentality and go into the gym and training this way and really go to failure. You have to like put your will in motion that I am going to get, I mean, I'm thinking of DC training now, particularly, but I'm going to failure and I'm going to do more than I've ever done before. Yeah. Talking about that. I don't know how much he was being on logbooking and those sorts of things and, you know, quantifying the progressive overload, terms, and performance of the gym, but you can't just, you know, say, I'm just going here and, you know, just kind of, you know, get a good pump and then you do a bunch of sets and get out of the gym and get my workout in. Yeah. Not with this way of training. So you have to, there has to be some conviction and a true inner belief. And if that's the case, I think if you take someone who just come hell or high water, they're going to go to failure and they're going to, they're going to just decimate themselves. Every workout with appropriate volume of course, and they, they need to believe in that. And then they'll make it happen. I mean, it's, it's simply will. If you've said someone to task for five years and hypnotize them and said, hey, you got five years. You know, triple all your major lifts in terms of the weight you're using from beginner to, to that intermediate advanced level. And they got there that would happen. They would do everything else perfectly. Yeah. So it's got to be kind of a belief in it. Speak of the devil, Kubachelans were this. He probably, he probably really is to that. You know, a guy who is yeah, used a lot of high intensity to be able to get this physically out there it is. Yeah. So I think, I think the thing people just kind of get back to your question is, I think program hopping is still an issue. Yeah. And I think behind that is looking for, to a lot of, the certain degrees looking for an easier way. Yeah. Right. There's a, there's a, there's a, intelligent, intelligent approaches, finding the right kind of volume and the right way of training that works for you. Absolutely. It's human nature to seek out the easiest way to get from point A to point B. And a lot of times, I mean, I would say if I had, if I had that you just wanted the other, not that I like, you know, black or white decisions necessarily because that doesn't necessarily but to illustrate this point, I think it makes sense to frame it in this way. Yeah. It is, if I had to pick, um, do I look for the hardest way or do I look for the easiest way? Yeah. I'm going to pick the hardest way, um, because you're in, in the general sense, you're trying to evoke an adaptation, um, that's, is something that is, is your body is going to receive as an absolute ultimatum for producing an adaptation. And that could be training like J. Cutler, that could be training, um, and I even say this in one of my, one of my talks, one of the kind of the bottom lines, um, a lot of times for many people in finding solutions to bring up weak muscle groups or to prove growth when they've, they've seen like run up against the wall is like, what haven't you done? Yeah. That's hard, you know, or that's substantially different, but that you know, at least for some people is a hyper-trophic response. It doesn't say like, you know, take up marathon running. Well, that's going to be hard, but it's not necessarily going to be a good adaptation. Right. Um, but, you know, figure out like, okay, I haven't tried to do like, FST7, let's say. Like, I think, I think that's totally fufu. I'm not saying this per se, but so once I think that's fufu because it never worked. What's gotten me here is DC training, during the eight-style training, HIT, et cetera, et cetera. But if now you're at, if you're a treachery endpoint, you're not going to wear to something else, but outside of your wheelhouse, you know, that's, but it would have to be hard. Generally, I mean, I'm not trying to pick on Mike, but like an example that falls into my head was, was Jordan Peters, where he did a podcast, Steve Hall's Revive Stronger Podcast with Mike Isretel. Okay. And Mike's take on things. Generally is a higher volume thing. Um, and you can train with Reps Rezerv and his thought, you know, is that that might be a solution for Jordan. And Jordan, very smartly, Jordan's not afraid of hard work if the table was not afraid of hard work, right? He's thrized on that shit. Like, that's, that's food for his, that's nourishment for his soul, right? Yeah. But he took that on board and said, but he also wants progress. He's going to do whatever takes. So if you're saying, I, I need to stop walking on the hot coals and get over here, too, you know, like the hot sidewalk, which isn't quite as difficult, but out, but it could'll mean that I'll make progress. I'll do it. He tried it. It didn't work for him, right? Wasn't as, so he's just, that's just one example, not that that switch might not work for other people. Right. But for Jordan, that his very advanced level. And this is, this is what my general thought. Yeah, given his current spot. Maybe at another time. Yeah, right? Is, is, yeah. So there's, I think it's validity and shifting from maybe a lower, a lower rep, lower set to maybe a higher higher rep, higher set, or maybe a, a higher volume approach. But there's still going to have to be some amount of just efforts and difficulty and stress in a way that challenges the individual. So it might be, okay, now we're going to German German volume training for legs. And persons used to not doing anything like that, used to like doing the, maybe they do one Widowmaker for DC training, right? And that's her highest rep thing. Otherwise, just lower volume, plenty of rest, beat every set, destroy the logbook, and now they try to do a volume training that can produce growth in people. And that's beastly difficult. Yeah. Right. So that's the thing, the sort of the metric that is a good, not always the case. So some people just need to reload, right? Some people need to pull back a little bit, maybe they're training too far because they're, they're in excess of the dose that they can recover from. But the effective change in training perspective from, you know, from a mentor to more of an arm, there still has to be some difficulty there. It can't just become, oh, well, this is easy training unless the D-load is necessary and expect that you're going to make progress. So yeah, sub-lacrwi, sorry, we should, but, Cuba said something similar. He said, we just love to train balls to the wall. Man, Scott just nailed it on the program hopping as a massive issue because nobody wants to do the hard, I'll say, stuff. Yeah, the fire gets hot and they just, oh, this is, I'm getting out of here and they try to jump over to the another pan, Pete. Dr. Scott versus Mike Menser. There's a lovely beat title around and it'll be so much fun interacting with them, you know? Oh, yeah. He did, I think, share so much good stuff to help and swing that pendulum to that other direction, you know, to say, hey, you know, at the same time though, I think you still have to take it with just as much of a grain of salt as you do volume, you know, or anything, yeah, and recognize like you said it's, and that's, we keep coming back to that same thing over and over and over and over Scott, the gray area said it's just not black and white. Yeah, he's a bookmark on sort of the end of the spectrum. He's like one extreme. Yeah. And it does work for people. Yeah. You know, there are people that train that way. Obviously, there's still, you know, if, if eventually his way of doing things just was just complete hogwash, then there wouldn't be people we would be talking about it, right? Yeah. Yeah. Well, we continue to evolve and who knows if like DC training would have been there, you know, if everybody was just doing volume and all the spinoffs that happened because of it, I guess. Yeah. Yeah. You can't underestimate to what extent in your unconscious mind, you know, the things you've read, you've come across is influencing your ideas. You know, so obviously Dante was highly aware of Mike Menser, especially because people would always like that was one of the, this is just HIT and Dante's like, no, it's not, yeah. I'm trying to like, you know, copycat Mike Menser. Right. So it's good to have those, have those bookmarks as a reflection because that's the contrast that we need to know anything, right? You don't know top from bottom unless you have top, you don't know bottom, you know, my bottom and my top, right? Yeah. Black, white, hot, cold. You need the contrast. So he's sort of one end against which we can compare things. All right. Well, let's wrap this thing up, man. This is fun. This is, this is a blast actually. I had a fun time doing this. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's fun. I like to just unleash my consciousness. That's cool. All right, guys. Well, if you want to get more from Scott, go over to b-y-o-b-cote.com. You can get his book there, be your own bodybuilding coach or you can go to Amazon, get the hard cover there, all of links to both of those things in the description. Of course, check out our awesome sponsors. We mentioned Dante just now, true nutrition is company. Go to trunutrition.com, use our code, think for additional savings. Hit me up if you have any questions about any of their supplements, supplements, source.ca for our Canadian folk. Got great deals that change week to week. Strong sports nutrition. If you're in the, if you're in the UK, lots of great health supplements there. And of course, thank you to everybody on Patreon. You guys are freaking awesome. Step it up to the plate and Victoria and I are going to do a live stream on Patreon soon. So stay tuned for that. Check out Patreon. We'll have details for more of that stuff. Scott, as a pleasure. It's a pleasure. As always, man, thanks for doing this with me. Like what? Great idea, dude. Thanks for that, man. Cool. Thank you.

Yeah, I think there's also, if you're going to suppress and shoot your system down, there's an element of right. If I'm taking that risk, then I want a reasonable reward for that risk. So I think there's a difference between where I would be on a first cycle for maximizing progress against the risks that you're taking, whip, shut down, and everything else. Against what would be the lowest dose, I think you could run in that first cycle, that would actually gain you some decent results. What's up guys, welcome back to the podcast. With Dave Crosslin, I'm Scott McNally, and all of our programming is brought to you by evalblotanellysis.com. If you're in the UK and you're on gear, you're going to need to get your labs done, and you can get your labs done by Dave. So go to evalblotanellysis.com to get your labs done today. We are brought to you by Strom Sports Nutrition for those of you in the UK. They have great health stacks, including some serious cycle support that you're going to need if you're on cycle. They may be coming to the US soon too, it sounds like we're also brought to you by trainutrition.com. Use our code think over there. I just bought some cookie butter protein. I bought a pound of it to try. I think it's going to be my new favorite flavor. Use our code think over it. True nutrition to get additional savings and all your supplements that all your basic sups that you need, your protein powder, creatin, your intra everything else. And we are brought to you by supplementsource.ca. Guys, they have great deals for Canadians that change week to week. So if you're in Canada, shop with supplement source, save a couple bucks because Lord knows bodybuilding is expensive, Dave, nice flannel shirt first of all. You just gave me crap every episode I wear a flannel shirt every episode. You'll go this is shit. Oh, but see, you can wear a flannel shirt whenever you want. It's what you're telling me. In the minute I do, it's like, oh, it's got to learn a flannel. Yeah, I'm going to bet you'll flannel shirt is 7 shades of shit. But it's every color of brown. Yeah. Yeah, and I have another one that's like blue and gray. Yeah, but this is a little fashionable. Oh, okay, fashion and advice with Dave. That's the episode today. Great. Great. Oh, that's really great with the barrel. We're trying to get a lot of views on this one. Freight. We've got it. We actually, we have a great topic today and this kind of comes to us from our last episode. So last week we were talking about like, hey, cheap cycles, basically. And what it came down to is that if you're taking a really strong compound, you don't need a lot of it. So if you wanted to run a low dose cycle and get the best effects that you possibly can, then yeah, like a little bit of a Chinese is going to go a long way compared to like the amount of pre-mil you would have to buy to get the same effect from it. Now here's a topic that came up though. So one of our listeners said, yeah, but there's also a minimal effective dose. That sometimes it's just not even worth the time the energy, the money to get involved with a compound if you're not going to take enough of it to actually grow. And he does have a valuable point. So we're going to today. We're going to talk about the minimal effective doses of all your standard main compounds. And I'm here. I'm curious to hear what you guys think too. I know a lot of you guys have experiment with lower doses. So tell us what are the minimal effective doses that have been good for you. But before we get into it, I have to, I think we should define when we say minimal effective, what do we mean by effective? Are we talking about like, because I think there's a big difference between taking enough to get a pump in the gym and feeling a little bit stronger and actually feeling in your system versus actually growing new muscle tissue. Those are two different things you know what I mean? Yes, I agree. I completely. So I guess effective doses actually making new muscle gains, you know, or for those of you out there who are easily triggered new tissue for those of you who want to grow new tissue. For some reason that's a hot button word right now, people don't like the word tissue. I don't know why don't ask me. I don't know dude. I think because maybe muscle is very little of it is tissue. How are we like 90% water? I think that it's like 87% fluid is there's all that goes into muscle. There's not only the tissue of the muscle itself. There's the the vast majority that goes along with it. There's a lot you know what I mean? Yeah. So anyway. I think I'm 95% water. Yeah, oh yeah, dude if we, you know, it's just slimmed you down. We did a little cut. You would be right like stage ready, I think. Yeah, the bit now left him. Got a water out, bit enough enough to. So anyway, so I guess that's how we're defining it is enough enough of a compound to actually grow new tissue. Let's start with where do we want to start? Trend the big boy. I was 100, 100. Yeah, I'm with you on that. I think 100 face. Yeah, female. I think you could burn me be as low as 10, 15. Yeah. I, um, I may or may not be starting in experiment in my own with a low dose trend because it might be all I have that's actually worth taking. I had, I thought I had. I love your cycle planning. Let's open the box and see what we've got. So I thought I had enough of you. It was a foolish mistake. I only had one bottle that I purchased and I don't plan on getting anymore. I'm like, but I got to, I got a violent. I have to trend that'll ask me a long time at 150. It's like some weird cook show where you know, they get a box of ingredients and I have to try and make something at it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's kind of it. Yeah, here's like some free dose and, you know, some marmalade. Go. So anyway, I'm with you. I think 150 maybe somewhere in there on Trends. All right. So if we're going from Trend, then let's go to its counter part as I'll call it. The other 19-northed is so popular in Antrolone. I've got a number in my head. I'm curious to see if Dave agrees. I'm going to say. I'm bouncing between two and three. So I'm switching to some of that. So when did that bulb off? I think I'd get. I was going to say like 250 maybe. You know? So yeah, two to three. Do 300 on deck. Now, would that be the same on Neutralone Final Proponate versus Long Acting Ducca? So now, so if we say, let's go with 250, then we'll go down the middle. So 250 decker. The difference is going to be that obviously over the first four, five, six weeks, that level, that circular level is going to increase until we apply to those. So the sum of pass is going to be greater than individual dosing. Yeah. With the MPP, I think you're going to be around the 50 mark. But you're not going to probably see the same extent of blood, plasma peak with the MPP. I think it will be lower. But it's going to be higher initially. So whereas the standard deck is going to go up, sort of like that, the MPP is going to start a little bit higher, but it's not going to grow as much. But I think 50 is probably where you're going to be with the MPP. Wait, 50? Yeah, 50, 50, 75. You're thinking that you could grow from 50 milligrams a week of MPP? No, sorry. Pidosin, three doses a week. I apologize, what 50? Also 150. Yeah. I'm talking as a dad. Sorry. So I got you three times a week. So three times a week, 50 milligrams. Okay. So 150 MPP versus DACA at 200 250. I would stick with the 200 maybe personally. But I mean, this is not scientific. I mean, if you guys tuned in to have us break out the charts and graphs, you turned into the wrong show, that said if you do enjoy our show, then we would definitely appreciate hitting the like button. It really does make a difference. And leave us comments and leave us questions for the next show. And if you aren't subscribed, then you definitely should subscribe and hit the bell. What's next? Where do you want to go to next from here? We covered kind of the Nangelones. To maybe we should have started with TAS. You know, the foundational compound, right? The parent of all of these drugs. I think with with with with circuit decker maybe a little bit higher. So if we're going to say 200 on decker, I think we're going to say 250, 300 on test. Yeah. I'm with you 100%. I mean, I guess this kind of does matter to where are you coming from. Yeah. I think there's there's there's also it. If you're going to suppress and show your system down, there's an element of right. If I'm taking that risk, yeah, then I want a reasonable reward for that risk. And so I mean, we normally sort of say first cycle three, four, five, 100, test a week, test a week. Just so we don't get any complications with interactions and different side effects. But you know, so there's I think there's a difference between where I would be on a test cycle for maximizing progress against the risks that you're taking, we've shot down and everything else against what would be the lowest dose. I think you could run in that first cycle that would actually gain you some decent results. So for me, I think we're 250, 300 for the minimum we can run and get some reasonable results. But if I would advise in on that cycle, I'd be saying, well, I would aim for 400 as a risk to reward ratio in what you're doing, showing yourself down and what you're going to get in results. But this is a slightly different conversation because this is about how low can you go and still get something. Yeah. Yeah, I'm with you. I would prefer 400 over say 300 for growth. I think the risk to reward is pretty similar. You know what I mean? The risk of 400 versus 300. Heck man, I'd even go to say the risk of 300 to 500 isn't really that much different. You'll be more likely to have to do something to control estrogen that higher that dose gets. But as far as looking at your lab work goes after the cycle, the amount of shutdown that you get from 300 and damage to your body, I don't think it's going to be that much different 300 to 500. I don't know. What do you think? Erm... Again, this then comes, I think the nuances there are on the individual and where they are with their training in a diet and stuff like that. Someone who, let's say someone's trained for ten years, been a natural, very invested in their diet and training. Then I think that 200 milligrams difference can be quite significant and the results they get. But your average gym rat who saw a follows this diet and make a couple of decent sessions in a week, the rest are just okay. There's probably not going to be a significant change between those dosens. Yeah, okay. I could see that I think most of my experiences based off of people that I've worked with and generally if they're hiring me, they're pretty, you know, they're plugged in. They want to follow a good diet. They've hired, they've gone out to hire somebody to do that. You know what I mean? So, yeah. I do know there are guys out there that are just kind of like banging gear and still parting on the weekends and I know those guys exist. I, but I don't see their results, you know what I mean? Because they're not working with me. The biggest problem I see with most people, the biggest single factor that impacts their progress is their training. Yeah. And it's not that you could easily get a lead test around training and it's not that some people just don't have the physical and mental capacity to train at a certain level of intensity, where others do. Sure. You know, you take someone like Dorian and there's very few people on the planet can replicate that level of intensity. Yeah. He was unique in that factor. And so for me, the biggest stumble in block at the biggest differential between people's progress is usually down to their training around genetics. And not just their muscle response, but their mental fortitude around that training around genetics or just around training shows like. So, you know, I think there can be a variance if the training is really dialed open. That's usually the area that people struggle with because everybody perceives them as training themselves as training out. Yeah. And it's not only training hard, but it's doing it, workout after workout repeatedly for years. And thinking of this reminds me. I remember a long time ago when Fuad first started podcasting. He did a, he mentioned this in a video where he said, you know, like, if you want to come in training with me and you know, like you come out to work out with me, I'm a pro. And let's say that you, you know, get all hyped up for it. You take a bunch of pre-workout. You make sure that all your nutrition was nailed because you're going to train with this pro bodybuilder. Then yeah, you can probably keep up with me. But the challenge is not just that one workout and keeping up with me then. It's doing it the next day and the next day. And for the next 10 years, every time you train, I agree with you. It is a lot, not everybody is capable of that. Well, especially out the gate. You know, the longer we do it, the better we get at it. The other problem is it's not very quantifiable. It's like you follow a dial, you don't. You know, you eat the foods or you don't. There's a yes and no element to it. Even with the cycle, you take the dose or you don't. But with training, it's very subjective. You know, you do the, you do the breps, you do the sets. Yeah, but did you do it to your greatest capability? Did you give everything you had at that point? And even if you were given maximum effort, were you directing that effort into the muscle rather than just into effort of moving away? So it's subjective. It becomes very difficult to quantify, whereas, and it's, I mean, this is the one area where we coach in, I get frustrated and I struggle because it's like trying to convey the level of effort you're trying to get out of a client without physically being able to go hands on with them, can sometimes be incredibly difficult for a straight. And it's nobody's fault in, it's not like it's the clients fault. It's just that perception of heart training is based on that experience of heart training. Yeah, I work with a guy. So a lot of times what I do is I have people send me video and we, we can build that intensity up through that. But sometimes it's like, man, I just think it would be better to train with somebody in the gym and I was lucky enough that one of my guys that I've worked with, I'd worked through them all through his years of competing and now he's a little bit older and retired from that, but still a young guy moved to down to, I think it's self-created. Carolina and turns out he trains at the same gym as Dusty and he needed to, just he was just kind of like pumping these red. It was like a pump workout is what it looked like where like everything like doing a dumbbell row up, down, up, down, down, down, down, down, down, then do the other side. You know, I don't even look like you're sweating, man. But he's getting a good pump anyway. I had him train with Dusty and that light bulb turned on after that and it's changed everything. But yeah, you make a good point. So I guess back on topic, so we covered test, we covered trend, we covered DACA, how about aqua poise? Now, historically, they used to be the old, if you're not doing 600 milligrams, don't bother with it. Yep. But I think now, I actually think we're in a similar bulb part where we've sort of decarant testing, it's sort of 253 on, I would probably lean more towards 300 with EQ. Yeah, a little bit more for me than DACA. If you, yeah, well, like I could even see 200 with DACA with that 300 test, of course, you know, I can, all these compounds. I'm assuming we have a test base. I would say EQ's going to be slightly on the higher side in comparison. Yeah, I think 300. I think a nice start spot for EQ for a lot of people who's around for, but I think if we're looking at minimum doses where we can see any real progress, I would say 300. Yeah, 300. I'd go with that. We probably, I mean, do we want to get into the more exotics or let's just go to maybe like the most popular compounds out there now? Well, it's not the first one. That's the pre-mo. That's what I was going to go to. That's what any difference between mass and pre-mo first, that would be a one question or would you say it would be a pre-mo higher? Okay. If you're looking at on the ballic progression, by woodrun higher, the obviously, the only, the only caveat with that is how low pre-mo's going to push your Easter jump. Okay, yeah, for sure. So I would say probably about 100 milligrams, more on the pre-mo's most to the, I think, I think, must can be effective around 250 waste bream. I've been looking at three. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, when I see mass at 250, I see a cosmetic hardness out of it versus it being a mass builder so much. You know, if we take somebody who say is on TRT at 150 tests and then we're, we go to 250 tests 250 pre-mo. They're going to retain if not grow in that cycle. But mainly what we're going to see is a compositional shift to be more, you know, grainy and hard if we're dieting and getting leaner, you know. Yeah. But I would definitely, I would definitely say mass can be run low than pre-mo, pre-mo needs to be run high. Okay. So keeping it to just our basics, then I think that covers the basic injectables that people use. We're not getting into the meant or your DHB. But what about the orals, then? Uh, ox hair. All the least to at least 200 today. 200 today. Yeah. 25 25 25. Yeah. 25. 25 25 25. Yeah. Yep. I'm wish you on that 25 a day of anadraw and I think that you're 25 anadraw per day might even do more than these, some of these low dose injectables. You know what I mean? Yeah. It's a deceptive drug is anadraw. Um, it definitely works. Um, I mean, it has some some unfortunate size, particularly on the appetite for true. Um, and that's probably a big East downfall. Um, as far as I'm concerned, is the fact there's no point being anadrogs to be coy. Now, once again, to us, we see the object. Yeah. And as we get into these orals, I want to remind everybody we're not just talking about getting a better pump in the gym, you know, or getting an enhanced performance benefit. Because I bet you're, yeah, I bet you that you could even get an enhanced performance benefit from like 10 anadraw. You know what I mean? You probably noticed that. Um, but I don't know if that's going to necessarily grow new tissue. How about, uh, debal? I wouldn't normally say 20 to 30 probably leaning towards the 30th modern day, but I do know that the originally, the original, so our farthest off, you could get away with less particular if it was your first exposure to it. Yeah. And I know you personally have very good results with very low dosens. Uh, 20. What would you say though? I'd say 20 to 30. No, I'd say probably a little bit more. Okay. I feel like 30 is, um, 30. To me, we're getting up into like quote unquote real doses. In fact, I'd even say 25 a day for eight weeks as part of your cycle would be, you, you, you, you'd notice some major stuff out of that, you know. Yeah, agree. Who are you talking to, Dave? Sorry, I'm having a deal with an emergency in a booking. Don't forget booking for your, yeah, for labs. Yeah, just pop to. No, but yeah, I, the other thing is that we, I'll be using D-ball as a secondary compound. We're using it as a standalone. We do an older loan. I'll go point. I'm going to assume we have a test base for all of these cycles. We'll say, you know, whatever we need to, what do we say? Two, fifty, three hundred on tests. So we've got 300 tests in there. Okay. I'll go with 20 personally. You say 25, 30. I think that either of them are going to be reasonable. Um, and so we've got those two. And then let's just go to the last ones. Let's say, let's make the last two wind straw and anover. We're not doing table. Oh, we can do table. I didn't think anybody really used it. No, no, no, no, I didn't know why people hang on table. I think you're actually a compound. I think it's not as available right now. Like, I know that I say that in guys are going to comment and be like, my source, I think it's not available. But I don't see it on a lot of lists now. No, I agree. I don't think it's, I think it's not available because it's not popular, but I don't understand why it's not, there's not a drive for it to be more popular because I really like it as a portal. Anyway. Yeah. And of, I think, we know, to be honest, we're, I think we're fairly similar across the border. We're going to be taught a 2030 milligrams for under, uh, wind straw, the say, ever a withdrawal 25? Yeah. Um, and table again, I mean, the, these German stuff, some of that dosing was, was actually quite low, like 5 and 10 milligrams of table a day and they were seen significant performance. This is performance improvements, grounded, not muscle mass, but they were seen significant performance improvements from it. Yeah. Yeah. And I could see that because I could see the same from anover, you know, 510 milligrams of anover to enhance your performance, especially for a guy who's like, ah, nothing. Let's say you take nothing. And then we put 5 or 10 anover in there. I think that you would notice that in the gym, how is that going to translate the eight weeks down the road? Like how much real muscle did you gain out of it? I, I, I, I think that you would be a hard press to have a huge transformation. But yeah, there is the better, you know, the, the, the better you train like you said, better the diet, maybe you're going to get a little. That there is a, there is a difference from a dosing from a point of view of you'll get a performance increases on much lower doses than you will a muscular growth. You do need a little bit more for the muscular growth without that. Yeah. And the, the research that Scott Stevenson was looking at, it was like for anover, for instance, it was the, the optimal, like peak high end dosing was at 40 to 60 milligrams. Okay, that's where they saw the, like the most anabolic growth from it, you know. I'm just, usually when I, I stick, stick it to be honest somewhere between 40 and 60. Yeah. I've done high at personally, but we clients tend to stick around that mark. Would you go to 100? 100. But I did 100 anover and a 100 oxy combined. Your liver was probably angry at you for a little while. I tell you what, the fucking pumps were insane. Yeah. To the point where I can train properly, insane. I can see doing that. And you know what, man, what about this? What if you combined like 25 are with 25 oxy? I feel like even that would be, you know, and you're getting 50 milligrams total, right? Mm-hmm. Of, or I, it was one of my many experiments, but I run to 100 of each, I lasted 10 14 days and it wasn't for any side effects. It was, I just literally, I started training at pump up so much. I could hardly bloody move. Yeah. And it was just, it was particularly arms, arms were terrible. The, the bicep range. I mean, I was capping out like, you know, 90 degree bend. And I couldn't go any further up because the pumps were just so massive. It was like, this is pointless. Yeah. I'm not doing anything, yeah. So I just knocked it on the head. Yeah. Well, it's harder to get a good pump when you have all that scint oil in your arms, too, you know. Yeah. We had somebody who commented on the stream or on the stream, excuse me, on the show last episode and they said, uh, uh, scint oil. That guy's got scint oil in his arms. And Dave commented back, he said, it's not scint oil. It's photoshop. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's, you know, I doesn't bother me. I, if people think I put scint for the me arms, I took it as a compliment because what they're saying is like, when I achieve that size without doing that, so yeah, it doesn't bother me. You do. I used to get wound up by the, but these did you just find it, yeah, I used to, yeah, do you ever like attack people on the internet, like go after people publicly and stuff? A long time ago, I was all right, Dick. Yeah. I can pick up. I can pick up. I'm in. I can't fucking trigger all time. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's, it's, it's, it's the, it's the, and it, you, I, I just, uh, I, I just, uh, I know my being called out on things that I've done that are wrong, if I've done them wrong. You know what I mean? I'm, yeah, fine. I did. I right, forever. I used to get really wound up when, when I hadn't actually done it and it was like, no, I haven't fucking done this. Yeah. Yeah. And then people, I probably like, oh, he's getting all defensive because he knows he's right. Yeah. Yeah. But people, I mean, people, even if they didn't sell to be a troll, they'd become a troll when they know you're reacting. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. That's. So I, I, I walked away from that long time ago. I even now, I, I, I, I, I, I, I'll make the, odd, I don't comment much on post anymore, but I'll make the odd comment. And, night has that, I tell you, it blows back in with face and I'm just thinking, why have I bothered? Yeah. Yeah. This is some reason I just trigger people and say, it's like, you know what, I mean, probably me in the way I put things, but it's like, you know what, I'm just not saying anything anymore. Yeah. It's really the safer bet. But we're happy to have you Dave whenever you comment. Dave went through and commented on the show last episode. We all know that creatin is great for muscle building, but were you aware of its benefits for brain health? Uh, I think it's problems. Creatine? No, it's definitely pronounced creatin. No, it's definitely creatine. I'm positive. Yeah. That's pretty much what I said, creatin. Creatine? Well, regardless of what you want to call it, creatin plays an important role in brain health. The administration, your brain means a significant amount of ATP to perform difficult tasks. Supplementing with creatin will improve phosphocreatin stores, helping your brain produce more ATP. So if you're not on creatin now, give it a try. Check out truenutrition.com. Use our code, think over there. They got all your basic health supplements like creatin, protein powder. Everything else you can think of. Use our code, think to help support our programming, get some additional savings and get a great supplement. Yeah. That's definitely creatin. Um, all right. So we do have a bunch of listener questions. And as always, guys, you guys do a freaking great job loading us up with questions and topics. And all that stuff helps to boost our programming and the algorithm. So thank you for that. And uh, load us up with questions again for the next show. Uh, so we have some stuff from Patreon. We have some stuff from YouTube. Um, all right. Here we go. How about this one from Nick? He says, would love to see an AI went to start. Uh, because we did a topic on a previous episode of when you come off cycle, when do you stop your AI? So he said, I'd love to see a topic of AI's went to start, uh, the flip side of the question that was asked today. Uh, there seems to be an overwhelming amount of guys ready to toss in an AI when E2 is high, but no symptoms are present. Hmm. I think I, the only each engine symptom I generally get concerned about is guy know, because it's the only one that's difficult to deal with. Yeah, what retention? You drop your eastern wall attention is going to come down. Yeah. Uh, sexual dysfunction though not particularly pleasant when it occurs at the end of the day, your ring your eastern town is going to get back to normal. That you know, the only one that's going to have a lasting effect is guy know, so as a result, I tend to run over decks in the early days. So off the back. Yeah. And then I'd like to test East Virginia about week five. We're not going to be at peak eastern levels, but we're going to be closing off to no sort of where we need to be. Uh, and an only if I know someone has a history of problems with East Virginia, or we're really in quite a decent set up from an aromatized drug. Well, I saw a plan East Virginia management earlier on. Generally you're looking at two free weeks before you sort of see East Virginia starts to really increase in my opinion. And then it's going to peak about a week 10 days behind your aromatized drug peak. So do you need to run an AI if you're non symptomatic? No, not particularly as long as you're covering all symptom bases. I am put pressure is okay and everything else. Then no, I don't see any issue why you would need to run an AI if you're not experiencing negative from the East Virginia. I believe it well alone. If you want, I mean, Eastern has its positives. It's a poor healthy lipids. You know, so it's not all doom and gloom isn't East Virginia. It's just we want to manage those effects that we don't want from it, which is the war retention increased blood pressure. He rectal issues and obviously the real big one, which is the guy. Yeah, I had a guy reach out to me Dave and you know, I'll mention this to if it's going to depend on the cycle as well, right? Like if you're going to start a gram a test, then there's going to be a much more highly likely hood that you're going to have issues or something that is going to be high aromatizing like debolfe for instance. Oh, oh, man. Yeah, something like that. Yeah, yeah. You're going to, you know, versus, you know, if you're doing one of these low dose cycles like we introed the show with, the likelihood of you needing an AI is going to be a lot lower than more tests, the more conversion, the more potential issues. I had a guy that I've worked with on and off reach out to me over the weekend Dave and he's been on TRT. He needed TRT and he's doing it himself. OK. He's off doing his own thing, not working with me and he had talked to some a clinic and I think that maybe it being getting stuff from a clinic for a while clinic told him, hey, we don't do AI's at all for anything under 250 tests. And you're, you know, there's no need. And we've heard that before like you're not going to have enough estrogen to have a problem. Yet he says, I'm so I'm getting this itchiness in this sensitivity, which turned into pain and I got a lump in my nipple, but they told me not to take, you know, you didn't need an AI at anything under 250. I think he's taken 200 and needless to say now, now he has this permanent lump because of the dogma of anti-AI. I think there's a middle ground. You know what I'm saying? There's a middle ground in there that AI's aren't all bad, you know? I think there's a combination of three indices, of three indices, terms, I'm three in the numbers and people tend to go away or the other. I know people, particularly with higher levels of body fat, they're even on correct T.R.T. doses half high estrogen. Now we might look at lesser estrogen management with things like dim or provider on rather than going down the ADX or a row of syndrome, but we're still going to look at some form of estrogen management. Particularly if it's creating problems. But yeah, it's... I think it's important that you check physically check, so you get the numbers. And it's also important that you listen to how you feel. And over time you'll start to get an idea of when I feel like this, this is where my numbers are. So you then start to, you know, that, okay, I'll start to feel that. Usually means estrogen somewhere around here. So I know if I take the XI said, I should sort of come down to where I need to be because this is why I've experienced in the past. So testing becomes less crucial than more you learn to relate to what's going on in your blood work, to what's going on in what your experience in birth. I think sometimes people treat the blood work when it's not necessary. Yeah. I've got an elevation level, but I feel brand new. And advice of people sometimes ignore things when they should be looking at it as well. I agree with you. 100%. Um, looking at this thing here, let's see. Can you talk about ways to lower pro-lactin? There's a few ways. A lot of it depends on how the pro-lactin's been driven up. So, prolatin elevates with stress and you'll get a milder, or you can get a mild elevation in pro-lactin, just from being on anabolic. No of the reason whatsoever. Yeah, because you're going to go slightly increase the stress. So if you're seeing pro-lactin just above range, chances are that's purely just down to anabolic. That isn't going to be significantly impacting on you in a way you feel or the way you perform. So generally, I wouldn't give you shit about it. The other thing that will drive pro-lactin, please elevate it, Eastern gin and elevate it, is subsequently drops. And one of the reasons for that is our, the mechanism within our hormones are very female driven. We, you know, when we, we first are in the womb, we are effectively females to be getting our testosterone here at week six eight or whatever it is. Um, so we're hence why males have nipples. So, um, if you get out elevation in Eastern and then a subsequent drop, so effectively you start a cycle, you get high usage and size of foth nations really high, you're slamming some aid, the excretion comes right down. That's going to trigger a rise in pro-lactin. Oh, really? Okay. Because it's part of the process of what happens within females and childbirth. Again, in Eastern blue, that all of a sudden drops off triggers the rise in pro-lactin and the start in the lactation. So, it's not a significant in a male, but that mechanism still has some play. So, there's also been a way of what preceded where your levels are, but again, that pro-lactin is not going to be significantly impacting. Now, with pro-lactin is confirmation, you're going to come from stress, P5P, generally will be very effective. And what it does, P5P increases the dopamine transport proteins. As a result, you carry more dopamine across the synapsis to the receptor, as a result, engagement of the dopamine receptor is increased, and that pushes pro-lactin down. Ciber works in the same effective way, but what Ciber does is plug into the receptor and make the brain thing, there's more dopamine there than there really is. When you get elevated pro-lactin from a nandre-lone, so train or decar, that's because it actually lowers the number of dopamine transport proteins. So, you're still producing the same amount of dopamine, but it can't get carried to the receptor. So, effectively, the brain thing's dopamine is low, and as a result, pro-lactin elevates. That's going to be significantly more impacting on you from a point of view of side effects. So, that's the one that causes the lactation, that's the one that causes the erectile issues and all those sort of lovely things that come with it. Now, what I have found is that if you know you're going on a cycle with an underlone, if you start P5P for a couple of weeks before, you elevate the number of transport proteins, the underlone comes on and reduces that number of transport proteins. But because you've elevated them in the first place, the offset is that general there's enough transport, what it means to carry the dopamine across, and the prolactin issues are nowhere near, it's severe. But if you try and lower prolactin issues with P5P, that have been induced by an underlone in the first place, the transport proteins are already low and the P5P just can't bring it up enough, and generally in that scenario, you're going to have to use GABA. Yeah. And that's what I sort of seen. I think that's a great explanation, man. We had a question or a topic, I guess. I'll just read this. Good show is always, many still say that Masteron lowers estrogen. And I know I've heard Dave say that it acts as a surm, because of what he's seen on blood tests with clients. By half in stance, I came across an article from a European journal on cancer from 1965. It states that Masteron probe was found to compete with the antigen binding sites, but not estrogen receptors from the studies. My question is, has either of you heard or seen of the study, and what are your thoughts on it? Thanks. There's a strong possibility that seen is that there's a study from 1965, the research is, well, I know it has progressed onwards. Now, Masteron, Droston Aron, was used in the treatment for breast cancer for several reasons. One of the reasons was that it engages with the estrogen receptor in breast tissue. Therefore, reducing the effect of estrogen at the ER and breast tissue and reducing the proliferation of breast cancer cells. The other thing it does is the ER and ER are both contained within the same cell. When the ER is engaged by Masteron, the downstream pathways are common to both. If one's occupied by ER production, the ER can't work as effectively, so that's the other mechanism. But there is also a metabolite from Masteron, the Byzantium estrogenic. Now, Steve covered this with a guy that was doing research and they started the whole. Yes. I tried to find a video of some reason I couldn't find it, but I have watched the video. The Steve was saying how he saw when he used Masteron is Eastern levels lower. And the guy who was doing the research was a doctor and he was like, what we've seen is the sometalite that acts like a firm. So, there is quite a lot of studies in fact, a dig digs them up, showing Masteron acting as a firm at breast tissue. So, there was one, 2024, which showed that Masteron was very equivalent to to Moxifene. Really? In ER blocking in the breast. Now, Masteron was supplemented in breast cancer treatment by to Moxifene and cloned. So, Masteron was used prior to the development of to Moxifene. And now, Masteron's fem came once slightly more efficient and they switched over to that. So, that was 2024. There was another trial in 2024 using CR1447, which is a Masteron derivative. It's a topic called used to rub on breast. It's showing that it reduced the iron engagement in breast tissue. Most of these are cancer stuff, but they're all showing the same ER. There was stereo receptor and drug response and breast cancer models from 2025. Again, showed that Dr. Stone-Alon analogs had an inhibitory effect compatible to Moxifene. Okay, interesting. In both, now this is the interest in both ER and PR. So, that was showing that Dr. Stone-Alon has an impact on processed front receptors as well. Interesting. Okay. And I could go on because it's quite a few, but the basic issue is there is a lot of cancer research showing that Dr. Stone-Alon has an ER blocking effect at the breast. Some are showing a bit of a PR blocking and like I said, now, if I don't find that video, I'm sure that Steve said he listed the studies in the bio that we're looking at this metabolite. I had this anti-eastern journey confection. I'll tell you what, guys, if you find that video posted in the comments and that way everybody else can go over and see Steve's videos. It was someone from the show that put me onto it. It was someone I wrote a link of in the show in a previous episode that put me onto it. Okay, yeah, so there's a clip. There's quite a bit there. So I did me homework for you for that one. There's good. That was really good, Dave. We have a bunch more. How about this one? This is from the stream again. Steve and he said I started trying the last night at 30 milligrams. Walk up in the middle of the night and had a panic attack. I've run trend previously, no problems. Am I overthinking? Am I overthinking? Which in turn caused my panic? Could easily be both. Or a combination of both. It could be... With anxiety and overthinking, the nature of that happening can be very much self-manifesting. So you go on trend, you expect trend to do certain things, make you overthinking. So you end up overthinking about trend because you're you know, that it could be psychosomatic to an extent. Yeah, very, very possibly. Depending on these only just started, I would be surprised if the trend had such a significant impact early on, but it's not impossible. Especially at that dose, 30 milligrams. I can tell you that when I had been in contest prep, I did find that while already on trend, while already having it in my system, if I were to take a shot at night before bed, that it did seem to keep me more like up, you know what I mean? And I guess, though, you know, you look at it and that Androgens are going to be like central nervous system stimulators. So there is that effect, you know? There's that effect. You'll get some immediate cleave in from the injection as well. So you're going to get some pure hormone entering the bloodstream. So yeah, I mean, obviously, once it's in the bloodstream, it's around the body in literally seconds. David Graham's common. He said, please to have had a hand in connecting David and his wife with putting glad to see that he's doing well with them. Okay. Yeah, you can have him buck. He's a pain in the ass. And another nice comment here from Northern. He says, Dave has had so much juice over the years. We should call him the man from Del Monte. I lie that's all I got. I'm not going to be a master of that. They'd be really chit-co. There's a good lunch from Del Monte. He said, yes. Good show is always, oh, here was the master and question. Question for you both. If I wanted to use Testsip, Daca and EQ for a strength in Balkan cycle, how much of each would you use weekly? And what would be a great way to get the best gains out of this cycle? Thank you both. I guess it depends too. Like what's his experience? Is this guy like just a tier T guy all his life? Because I'm not going to tell him to run a gram of Tests and, you know, a 600-deca and 400 EQ. Now you go there's your cycle, Mike Crack on. Yeah. Training would be a good idea. That will get the most out of the cycle. Yeah. Yeah. Surprise. Yeah. I give a people Dave that reach out to me, like, quote, then I'm coaching and they say, hey, is there anything more that I can do? You know, and what the, like any supplement, I should be taking or anything I can change around. And I'm telling, always, like, once we have things in a good groove, the number one thing you can do is getting the most out of your training, you know. I think it's a natural process. I think we, I've gone through it. I'm sure you've gone through it where you start, what else can I take? Sure. And, you know, in, it's got cases. He opens these shoe boxes as I look and see what is he got. What kind of play? We got about 14 mills of trend. All right. Well, this was a lot of this, but yeah, it is recipe box. But yeah, I'm going to take the old, we all go through that, you know, more is better, sort of phase of of approach and look for, excuse me, what else can I do, what can I add to this to make it better? And unfortunately, look about to cake making because the recipe sometimes you are too much and you're ruined the cake. Yeah. And it's the same with gear. You know, more is not always going to be better. If it makes you more toxic, overstresses you, you're going to find you in a negative position rather than a positive. So going back to the cycle. You know, I'm tempted to go 40440. Yeah. Dependent experience. If I was to go higher, I would go higher on the deck of all the tests. I wouldn't go higher on the EQ. First. Okay. I think for me, it depends on maybe the experience we've had. So I work with a guy who has had really good experience with DACA. So we know that DACA is a good compound for him. We didn't experiment previous off season. We were a he ran. I believe it was around might have been 900 tests. The guys had advanced lifter to the guys of the IPB Pro. 900 tests. I believe it was 600 or 700 DACA along with 300 EQ. And that worked great for him. We were actually doing that. We did that cycle again a second time. Worked great again. For myself, I'm more of an EQ guy. I found that my best ever cycle was test. And this is when I was Dosen stuff higher. It was like 1.25 grams of test. 800 EQ. And then the NPP. I didn't use DACA. I used NPP. Still Nanger alone. I did that at 200 to 300 per week. And I loved that cycle. Great for me. But I learned what worked for me first by having experimented with all these compounds individually. You know what I mean? Yeah, but I've had clients push tested 300 and decorate 900 and had amazing cycles. I've had clients that have put 300 decorating and gone turned into an a depressive emotional wreck. So you know there is a tolerance thing. There is well definitely. Yeah. So I guess it depends on the individual. But I would say what you're saying. Would you say 400 of each? Going blind with no background knowledge. I'd say that that's not a bad stop. And I know today is 1.2. So I'll switch to the Deseon crack for most people. True. True. All right. What else do we have here? All right. And once again just to remind you guys if you haven't hit the like button please do. Let's see, I compete in a little less than five weeks and then I'm coming off everything and just going back to TRT levels of 125 per week and perhaps completely off. If I cycle back on after eight weeks of what would be my would my receptors be fresh or should I go a little longer? You recepts is a dead after a day. But you get new ones. Right? You do get it. You do get new. So I think we've done this but very quick drug lesson testosterone and you will stream and it's the cell. Well I need any undergimps to be there and it's the cell connects to the AR creates the complete package travels down to the new clears tells it to do all the wonderful things increases contractual proteins increases nitrogen anti-catter-bolic all the rest of it and then it comes out of the nucleus. It leaves the undergim receptor and entry enters the bloodstream and it will continue to do things until it dies off. When it separates and the undergimps at the undergimps it divides into two. So you do not desensitize hydrogen receptors because they are constantly increasing and dying off etc etc. And undergimps is basically it's a constant cycle of new ones being produced all one stion off but the engagement of the the hydrogen receptor causes them to duplicate and then that that molecule of hydrogen might then get attached to a rematase and convert to each of the independent of what compound it is or it might attach to 5 AR and become a THT. If it's not already a THT or it might bind to a THBG and go from your arse to your shoulder or albumen and go from your shoulder to your toe and then convert or then engage with another AR and it will continue doing this silly days. So the blistery miss is melting plot of undergins engaging with various things be it receptors or transport proteins or 8 5 AR or aromasin. So I rubber days and then each region engaging with receptors or transport proteins and being moved around the body. So it's this constant melting pot of things going on all the time things dying off things being renewed. 100 receptors do not desensitize, they do not regulate in that sense. They will down regulate once hundreds of less the system because as they die off they're not going to be replaced on a duplication but that takes a little bit of time and it's downstream where you start to get elevated stress levels that can be counterproductive. So though you don't need any time for your undergenreceptors to recover you do need time for your downstream effects to recover. Generally speaking when you stop the cycle you want a period of no drugs to allow circulating home on levels to drop then you stay at the if you're going to t-arty straight away and we've covered this a few times but I'll go through it again. Let's say we're at a hundred emmall and every week in colline with a half life of drugs you use it drops by 20 emmall but you start your t-arty straight away so you go a hundred down to 80 reenject back up to 90 down to 70 reenject back up to 80 that extends your decline. Yeah quite significantly and even six seven weeks down the line you can still be above levels which means you're still driving him a globing up you're still pushing hates the L down and he's still creating downstream stress so stop who'll drop venti-arty that allows the body to recover the healthy you are going to the next cycle the better you'll respond and the better you're tolerated drugs so that's an individual thing but how I would say as long as you've got levels down quick enough 8 10 weeks bridge time is usually enough for most people but you know long there's not going to be a negative thing it's only means you're going to be fresh to go into the next cycle. Yeah generally all you know in a ideally we're doing a rebound to post contest so we don't need to add a bunch of gear in to make the most out of that you know you're in a great super-insulin sensitive place you can also get real fat real easily too but we're building that diet out and you know also too you maybe need a little bit of a break post contest of training if you're you really hit it hard but I wouldn't take that until after a month you know but besides that yeah I'm working on rebounding you filling you back up and eventually we hit a point where you kind of top off and if we can make that extend like eight weeks even a little bit longer and then add the gear in we can just keep going back up maybe you were you know I work with a guy that we were 200 pounds before the contest by the time that we actually got back onto the next cycle he was already two 30s and now we've pushed up into the 250s you know so you know take advantage of that couple more here about this one David says a simple question so he's running a test-deck a cycle if you were to use anovar with that would you do 25 a day for for 12 weeks or 50 a day for six weeks personally I'd go 50 a day for six weeks last six weeks that would be my approach yeah I could go with that I go with that that worked for me that was Patreon question thanks David for your support and do you guys ever see deficiency in iodine do you do you use iodized salt or Himalayan sea salt it's not something I've had the same results from the weed test for or in our bloods anyway so it's not something I'm generally guinnessy but I've never used I've always used either sea salt or Himalayan then anything else I don't you have to be careful with too you know especially if you have any kind of thyroid stuff going on I was going to just better say you have thyroid these dodgy as well yeah I remember dude a guy who was selling research comes years ago there's like 2005 long time ago in research chem days and we they had people that were saying I think this T3 is bunk I'm not getting anything out of it and he said oh you got to take iodine with it take a lot of iodine into work that's you're not getting enough iodine in that was so he wanted you to mega dose iodine while you're taking his T3 and I don't know about that no I mean I know under actually thyroid sufferers have to be very careful around crucial vegetables for that same reason it's not good for your thyroid yeah we had a bunch of other comments here we just kind of skim through these really quick java use uh oh like the oral test the undecanoate capsules you ever take those no I haven't either nobody has seen them no never even seen them but you're a werewolf right oh yeah I know they exist I just never has eaten yeah can't bonees with us can boneilaw make it really quick full body split just harder is it is a full body split just harder unless effective doing most compounds three weeks seem three times week seems more challenging even if it's three to four extra sizes isn't it better for body count too I think personally that the problem with the full body work out is because you're repeating it several times a week you're quite limited on the volume you can do with each session which means the intensity has to be high and people struggle generate in that level of intensity where a bro split allows more volume which will compensate for the intensity not quite being there at the end of the day you can train intensely or you can train a longer you can't do both and the nature of brief workouts or effectively high intensity workouts means that the intensity has to be high to make them effective um overall doing compounds three days a week shouldn't be too taxing I mean CrossFit focus do it every bloody day they deadlift and squat every time they train so you know it's it's viable but yeah I would say the issue is round to how much intensity you can generate which is why full body workouts sometimes are not seen as being as productive as a blow split unless you can train very intensely but you can still grow off him I mean it's somewhat johnpy it does quite a bit of these body splits and sorry you know full body or half body splits like two days wins well look at four to two training is a full body workout so it's going to be like maybe you're going to hit upper really hard and then lower body is going to be more like a pump work out and then next time it's going to be you know lower is really hard and upper body is a pump workout so but you are getting that activation and you know full body it's a not that phasing to almost like the feed is set approach where you do an intense workout then you back you do it with a more volume blood flow workout to increase nutritional transit within the muscle and everything else so maybe if you're struggling with it try that approach where you do you know certain exercises intensely and then the following workout you do over exercises intensely and more volume or some on the exercises that you previously trained intensely yeah somebody said on the train don't take it at night either morning injections I'm with that you know I'm definitely a fan of doing an earlier injection of train versus right before bed Dave we had one more important segment for the show today that we always need to get to so most work by some people they might even say it's the most important segment of the show it's called you're going to want Uncle Dave's advice out you and I've got a not thin why because I'm very poorly prepared and I was doing my master on research and forgot about it but you this is like your life reflections though will you have your whole life prepared for this you know uh could it be something about how even if you're a best friend lives all the way across the ocean it doesn't mean that you care about him even any less even though he's not just a catarabond just keep swimming we have that an ages just like just like dore is that an yeah sorry okay what about no no I don't know if I've done this I don't know if it's it's probably out because you do run out of shit you know I mean but there is there is going to be points in your life where you're only going to get through it by repetition by just getting up doing what you've got to do and getting through the day you are not going to be positive you are not going to enjoy life you're not going to enjoy work and it is going to feel like a slog for remote to quote Tom Hanks eat his temperate but it won't be temporary if you don't get up get on with it and get through it because by not getting on get on you're going to create secondary problems they're going to bite you on the ask later down a line yeah so yeah life life sometime can be shit you're at a town I'm pushing just like it was I sort of didn't even say in the he had and he what he said was basically good times sorry bad times they won't last yep good times they won't last yeah you know it will change and you just go roll it and sometimes routine and repetition is all you've got to get you through you just get up you do the shit you carry on doing the shit because it's what needs to be done when you start lacking in your responsibilities because you don't feel like it that's you know create an ongoing problem later on down a line yeah yeah I could see that I remember my dad hadn't given me like a lot of wisdom advice kid but I remember dealing with this situation as a teenager and him telling me you know Scott he gave me that kind of like you know dad advice that you would expect to dad give you a deep advice you said you know Scott you realize after a while that things aren't really ever as bad as you think they are but they're not as good as you think they are either yeah I mean you know if you're reflective there will be times in your life I suspect for pretty much everybody where you've sat there and gone how the fuck am I going to get through this yeah and yet you're through it yeah well you wouldn't be sat in now so you obviously got through you might be in that position now where it's just like how the shit am I going to get through this crap and we all literally all of us have definitely been there where we can't understand how it's going to get you know how I feel like I you know I remember going to prison saying in that sale in that first week and one just thinking how is my life come to this but two also just thinking how am I going to say I think how am I ever getting to get anywhere you know my life's over I've ruined it I've destroyed it ironically prison was the best thing that could happen to me because it gave me time to sort of really reflect and and sort my shit out I mean all right I meant restarting life in my 40s which probably wasn't ideal but at the same time you know I mean anything's achievable within a feather yeah and you know sometimes the worst scenarios because you just keep lot in fruit can create the best aftermath ever possible but yeah you know we've all been through shit where we've just fought oh I can't cope with this I can't deal with this and yet we do and it's just having faith in yourself just believe it all keeps with it yeah yeah I like that that's good man yeah I can imagine how that would have felt you didn't I can imagine how that would have felt sitting there like a weekend being like holy crap how did I get here you know it's yeah it's the thing is it's prison actually in certain ways isn't that bad because your meals are there your beds there yeah you know I've only you know I've already the any stressing your day to day life but then the issues are outside you have no control so if there is a problem at home you can't fix it you can't do anything about it and when you're locked in a room for 23 hours a day your brain will start twisting actually it very very quickly were you literally locked in in a room in a cell for 23 hours or I mean to start with the s and then as you get into the routine you end up even going to education or going to work and you start to get your gym time but your initial incarceration you get an hours exercise and you the prison I was initially in was every third day you got an hours free time as well where you could go out on the wing and make phone calls and other shower and stuff or rest of that one hours exercise go out and get your meals go back to yourself and that's all you ever did you got a shower every three days that was it yeah and you got to go out for one hour every three days plus no one hour a day you go one hour one hour yeah okay wow probably the worst prison I was in was Toronto I was one that Toronto that in the US before they kind of yeah I mean I'm sorry that's what I meant before they figured back out so that's when they that's when they first snagged you I imagine you went to like a county first or something right they I went to the agro detention center first okay in what's that that's actually that sounds like a prison or a jail it's sort of is yes so there's two levels to it because I was at that point in immigration's case then you'd go into sort of the general pot which is basically a dormitory environment so you're dealing with other guys and that's everybody yeah when I went to Toronto prior to deportation I was in a cell with three guys on a wing with a think it was six cells so it's triangular shaped yeah the long side has the showers and toilets which I completely opened there's no doors or anything and then you've got I think it was three or four cells three or four cells entry door in this corner entry door in that corner that was we would get exercise daily uh however there was an excuse every day to bring us in early so we'd be 10 minutes 50 every bloody day and excuse me something would go down wrong or yeah there would be something one of the guys oh he's done this wrong or he's he's looking at that window in the wrong way or he's walked it correctly you know there was always bullshit just to let's use to get us back it and then you you sell dog at the gym on it and it was a bar door so it was open to the wing you could see through it and you got that wing space which wasn't large all day and then you got locked up again and that was as narrow when it went to the UK system initially was too to a cell and then as I progressed I ended up with my own cell okay but yeah there was there was definitely dark times where I thought you know life as I know it was over sort of thing why was Toronto so bad kills because of the thing was that the officers were particularly antagonistic oh yeah I could see that so I was in as so with I was in a cell with a fat guy from Australia New Zealand who was caught in some technicality effectively um a Russian that like killing coppers and a young guy that committed his first murder it was definitely not all there so I thought it's like we're one eye on you're like hey I'm just here for taxes can I get a different can I get a well I mean any sort of attempt at communication of trying to get any sort of thing saw I was just pointless um the English system was a little bit more responsive but not much you know I mean you're trying to sort this out yeah okay three weeks later you still ask and same bloody questions oh yeah but once you get into what they call your sentence prison which is the prison you're going to spend the bulk of your sentence out then you started you're able to get enrolled in programs or or get a job or do something that least makes a day a little bit more productive and you got to do some painting and some drawing here I did and when I was in shots shots is a max security in Scotland yes guys in case you didn't know we haven't talked about this in a while it's on the floor it's not even hung up I don't mean this now it's a respect I have it in my office I have a bunch of pictures that I just kind of I put I put up against my wall like this and I just did you know the Dave drew this I mean not this actual one but this is a print of Dave's drawings I mean it's really incredible man technically that's one of my better ones I must admit I really like it yeah that's cool do you still ever do a prince for people yeah I do prince I haven't drawn in a very long time yeah probably I haven't drawn in two years but I still do this is number five of a series of 500 prints Dave signed it right there you guys I don't know if you can yeah you can see that Dave signed it how would they reach out to you if they wanted to get to get your prints or if they wanted to reach out to you for coaching social media usual all right I have that link down below and you got anything else coming up oh you're new app better better better you yeah better you dot online has launched basically it works out a pound a day and it's especially a coaching app does your diet does your training plans there's no anabolic section to it so you're not going to cycles but for someone who wants you know each issue for it does things like you can put in what restaurant you're going to and it will scoundrel menus and fit a menu choice around a diet plan is best it can okay if you shop in race so instead of having to go to the shop you just get a shopping list of all right I need to buy this this and this is the amount I need for the week yeah I like that that's cool yeah yeah I powered but work works really well actually yeah so yeah definitely son of for that everybody how you doing your cardio but nice weather we've been having you know I've been keeping up on my cardio Dave I'm doing a lot of cardio now and I lost a lot of fat yeah I want you to get my diet's being good but my cardio is being I have had a lot of football but to be honest that's the last four five days it's gone so I've had no excuses but no but my diet's being good good well I'm glad you're feeling better too guys and we appreciate everybody tuning in if you haven't subscribed then please do you know we have a lot of podcasts coming out we'd love to have you along for all of them and hit the bell leave us questions for the next episode you guys are freaking awesome with all your comments and everything and reach out to Dave on social media I'll have the links to Dave down below as well as reach out to me me me gdallydieds at gmail.com you can follow me on social media too I'll drop that in there and guys for another episode of the podcast uh brought to you by strong sports nutrition trunutrition.com user code think supplement source.ca for Canadians and of course evalbloodanelysis.com we got to your patreon questions today leave us more patreon questions from the next episode and Dave um sorry that I'm uh what was that word that guy called me? what do you call me? oh okay see you next Tuesday yeah I'm kind of a see you next Tuesday is what somebody said about me okay I guess I am I was for me yeah it's great I obviously I agreed with him oh god guys we'll see you next week thanks for tuning in

And it's a widow maker. So this is not a pump set in a fortitude training where you're keeping continuous. This is just like I'm going to just get as many reps as I can. I must stay on this weight until it comes hell or high water. This video containing previously on release footage was made with express permission from its owner, MLC video productions. Visit MLC video linked in description to buy videos and watch some of the most important training footage bodybuilding has ever seen. What's up guys? Today on Muscle Mines we have a Beyond Special Treat. I'm super excited about this. Scott, please introduce this. What are we going to do today? So this is an old clip that I found on my computer when I was when I was told and to clear off the hard drive space. From MLC video. So this is Bruce Lester's company but used to be a material copies company. MLC video. Yeah. It's the video. It's the company where they have all the old school badass battle for the limpia videos. And he did Dave Henry's video. He did a number of the videos back in the VHS days or some on DDDs too. Back when Scott had long luscious locks. Back when I had long hair. Bruce was such a cool guy. He came in the town. He I think he was in town three times back when I was in Tucson and training with Dave. And during one of these videos he just he was clipping the video out making the final production and he had all these clips that included me. Yeah. I didn't make it in the final video or maybe some of them did but they were just mine. I actually contact. We followed each other and Instagram. He liked one of my posts just the other day and I said, hey by the way, we're going to play back that video. I haven't watched it and give you a plug which we're doing now. And it's just footage of me and you know I haven't seen it for a watch of like 10 years. And so we're going to be at the reminisce about the good old days of training with Dave. I don't even remember exactly where we were. I think the video kind of hints is to where we were time wise but it was sometime in the late 2000s before I moved. So it's 2007, 2008, 2009, something like that. We've got some good gym training and then like the second I'd say the second half of it maybe is in your acupuncture facility. So we'll explain all that as we go. But guys, this is a special treat. So everybody who enjoyed like early 2000s bodybuilding, this is totally going to be your jam. Yeah old school, maybe. Here we are, over body parts. I think it's in legs. Do I have Mickey? And what he's got for me is he. That's Mickey is white. He's got Steve. He's got the D.C. training shirt on. I see it. Look at that hair. Holy shit. Yeah. Yeah, I have a while here until I get years ago. Yeah, lightning. I think I got a D.C. training shirt on too. Let's see. I'm going to turn the volume down here for the look up. Look at the volume on the music play. Yeah, and then the last one. Yeah. Okay. So this, this, this, the gym, um, blanking on the guy's name. So this guy used to train it. He was a personal trainer, the guy who owns this gym we're at. And he was at, oh my big. I was trying to get a whole of this thing. Yeah, I got to go all the way back to Minnie. I'll be right there. All right. And you know what? I think I have those six or actually, I'm shorts on today. I do. You still have those. Wait, what year was this? What year was this then? I don't know exactly. I have to go and look. Probably like, I don't know if it's before after I won the Arizona show or not, but it was like 2007, maybe 2005, 2006. Okay. Yeah. I have to go and see which video of Dave's that comes from and then you could date it. But anyway, so this is kind of it. You could see this here. This guy worked at another gym and he loved all the equipment there. He was used to it. So what he did is he had hired a guy locally to recreate all these hammer strength machines. Oh, wow. So you really rebuilt the main machines that he wanted from that other gym and he just had a local guy do them. So they were literally all hammer strength. So pause it there just for a second. See if my foot is resting on there? Yeah, that's a plate. That's just a bar. It's like a one inch diameter bar. Oh, wow. It's fucking killed your feet. It was just a worse thing ever. So the pain here was the pain of doing DC style cast stretches. Yeah. On top of the fact that you're just about to give you about to block the the planter fashion of your feet. That is because you're just resting on that bonnet post. Yeah, it was just a really horrible thing. Those are, they look like very slow negatives too. Like very, this is DC style training caps. You can see there. This is before like looking like you see my, on my right leg, my I have a needle gas truck. It's that muscles totally torn now. It's gone. Yeah. Absent. So yeah, I'm watching, I think I have my watch on my foot and I'm watching the time. Oh, I'm doing, I think 22nd negatives here. Okay. You lift up, you know, and then you slow it lower with like the five seconds or so. So you got your on a 20 second tempo. So three reps a minute. Oh, wow. And it's just a single set. I don't, Dante sort of throughout some numbers. It's how to do it. I was with, when I was doing DC training with people, I always said get a watch, stick on the tempo because you're going to want to go faster and you're going to want it when the pain gets there. So just set. Like I think he stopped. No, that's just, this is still the same set. There's just one set. Just in one set of this shit. Yeah. So it's all Dave's just kind of waiting until I get to the point where I can't move. Okay. So you're just, that's the goal. You just one set to absolute failure. One set. I don't, yeah. Sometimes you can rest pause those. I don't know if we did that there, but it's basically the standard of one DC training was one cast set. Yeah. So I'm watching, I'm watching. I'm watching. I'm watching. I'm watching. I'm watching. I'm gonna, I'm gonna flush this box. The last box you had then. So I couldn't get that rep. So I'm just watching. Yeah, I haven't got, I had my, my iPad. I was watching the timer. So I've picked the long song. There's a three in the last minute. I think I've been at sets. Dave's laughing because I think I probably mentioned how bad my foot. My foot, my feet were hurting. He looks lean there. You could see when he smiles, he gets those real that bodybuilder thin lines in his face. Oh, he's always lean. Yeah. Look at, to the back. I know. I could take some monster. These are brutal. Yeah. I didn't realize how brutal doing a dumbbell hamstring curl is until I started doing it myself. I love that move. Yeah. They're great. Your hamstrings are freaking peeled on this, too. Yeah. I don't really hold that on my legs so they look crazy. I know what you mean. I'm kind of the same way. See, I like it though, I'm gonna put on the decline bench because it's wider like that. So yeah. Like sometimes on smaller benches. If you're on a bench, as opposed to the floor, you're like, you have to use your aducks to hold your feet together. So you mean, you're doing a whole bunch. Dude, my ad doctors have been so fatigued from doing this exercise in part for that reason, trying to hold it together. You know? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's a good stress there to want to add that. But Dave was crazy strong on means. It was really interesting. We were about the same on hamstring movements. He just destroyed me on this one. Not really. Why or how? It was. It was just something about the biomechanics. Maybe he pulled his gastroccane to it a lot more. But anyway, and he's a free key. So yeah, I don't know where I don't know when this was. He probably says in the video. So they see the little ad though. MOC video.com. That's where you can find days videos. And a lot of it's stuff is out on YouTube now. It's basically free. Yeah. He didn't want people were just snagging and posting. I used to for about five years. I would literally try, so I know. Do you have such a freak? I mean, he's still competing too, which is crazy isn't it? Yeah. Yeah. He's still. He's been out longer than he's been out as long as Dr. Jackson has, basically. Yeah. Yeah. Seven is now really big on this notion. Yeah. So it's kind of based on some basic, uh, interconological and um, muscle studies demonstrating the insulin, you know, assacitur are going to promote an ablism, anti-cata ablism, et cetera. So other thing, basic simple ideas that you train calves, so you train calves, an amp strain to 1230, and quads at one, then you eat at one 30, the food action, start to hit your system to a clock and now you're two hours after the last time you, after you, since you train calves. So why not start eating the meal right then and there as long as it doesn't make you throw up during the workout? Yeah. So there's a timing issue too. Dude, I'm not doing that. I hope you're thinking. Yeah. We threw up day through a couple of times while we trained. Did he? Yeah. Not this, not this session, but yeah, there was once. We used one of those leverage scots that the, the one that you can really put any weight on. Yeah. Angelom's clock. Yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. That a really good day when they, they go big yellow. It's there. Somebody that's just hammer up, you know. Sure. Sure. Yeah. But still. Yeah. He's wild looking. So that was early, man. So you guys were using, I mean, what, let me ask you this, do, do your thoughts? Are your thoughts different today than the stuff you said there? Has it evolved? Yeah. No. Nope. Yeah. Yeah. But still, I mean, those, and there's funny that I mentioned me, though, is just like, you know, me, loves to doing this and everyone knows that now. But this was, you know, just 15 plus years ago. So, yeah, back to the level. I think it was a simple machine, right? That's, oh, that's a side back story. That is his side backs. But he's got a bunch. He just recreated all these machines. So once he couldn't get, you just, or just he won the same money on. So you'll see that. Here's your Scott's about to get down. Obviously, what I'll make her set, maybe. Yeah. Oh, yeah. She, I'm visualizing here. Okay. And the thing about all this footage, just so people know, this is just the stuff that was of me that never made it in the video. So you just filmed it, just written, shits and grins. Yeah. So I'm really pumped that we get to see this man. This is as, as somebody who loves the early 2000s bodybuilding, this is a real treat. So you can see I put my feet on the bottom. So I've just got my heels on the bottom there. I'm trying to make this as much of the quad exercise. You can do these, like we would do hand presses on these. Yeah. So you're trying to go as low as I can. You look like you're coming just about, oh, yeah, you do. The bottoming out, yeah. So these are deep, right? Yeah. And it's a widow maker. So this is not a pump set in a fortitude training where you're keeping continuous. This is just like, I'm going to just get as many reps as I can. I'm going to stay under the fucking weight until it comes hell or high water. Yeah. So like literally, I got like, I don't know, like I would have gotten about five if I just kept going. Yeah. And like I got like seven reps now. Who knows how long I stay in here, but think we're, we're trying to get at least. Or maybe this was just a heavy set. This is probably just a heavy set. This is how saw we did this shift. So this is like having done this for years and years and years and realizing that it takes its toll on you when you're, yeah, that was just one of the heavy sets. That wasn't what I'm making. Yeah. What were you starting to say though, it takes its toll on you. Oh, it just take, like you have those grinder reps that that just destroyed your nervous system. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's exactly what that set does. And you know, I learned that from you after I attempted to do, you know, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it gives me a muscle round. Yeah. And I took pauses in between each rep really. And I didn't think about it. You're really, you're, you're trying to hold back from failing in the muscle. So it, it just takes so much more out of you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And eventually the return on investment isn't, isn't as good as it could be potentially when you're doing continuous reps sets, you know, and going too failure or a couple reps shy, I feel you're getting a lot more, can you get a lot more bang for your buck? This doesn't mean you shouldn't do a set like that every once in a while because they're just fun. Yeah. But you know, you're just wasting yourself. So that's why I built that in the 42 training with these experiences. And there was no ad dr machine in there. So we used, we used, um, I think I'm using a plate that I've got like a weight belt around my ankle. And you're very Dave looks like he puts God under arrest there. He does. Yeah. That's funny. All right. Let's see what's going on here. If you scroll back, I think you can see my ankles. It'll probably, yeah, we'll probably go down a little bit. Yeah. Let's see. Well, those are weight belts. Yeah. But you had to just rig this. This is like, Dave used to say, what the fuck are we going to do now? Like, I'd start go over like, start digging in the pile of attachments and carabiners. Yeah. And it's definitely like, oh God, what the fuck are we doing? I got an hour after. I got a question I have to ask later from another question from Andrew. So I highlighted an Andrew. We'll get back to it. Yeah. We got some chest training here. Let's see that shirt. That's an intense muscle shirt. Oh, yeah. That's an original. Yeah. Yeah. Looks like. I think so. They've been struggling with chest and the road is much longer than chest. Yeah. His noise making. Yeah. Andrew mentioned it was about the dumbbell over head, tri-set extension. I think he was saying we're texting this morning. He was a writer. I think it's a long show that you're deep in and you're doing it as hard as you can. We are going to bounce him out. Yeah. He could do the 120s. Oh, you can't do it. What are you? Yeah. He could pick it up and he could do that shirt and someone didn't believe it. We filmed it one day. No kidding. It was someone on like bodybuilding.com or get bigger. Some shit like that. And like, we're not getting called out and I've seen him do it. Yeah. Dave needs to do some crazy shit. Like he just he could do Smith machine lunges with four plates. You're kidding me. No. No. So do it. Like he would just just do like sets of eight and eight to ten with one leg like that. So this is like the negative on a DCS process. I'm just trying to fight to keep it from touching and watching and trying to hold it. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Just try to torture myself. Who? So it looks like they must be the deep dish plates. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think they're just 45s. He should be. He's always laughing how hard we train. Yeah. Yeah. He needs more weight. Oh. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's probably doing it. And just the shape to his muscle. Yeah. It's so crazy. He has one of my favorite ever most most muscular. It's the way he hits it. Yeah. That was just hands clashed. Yeah. So you can see there are one of the things on DC training. You only do a little bit of number of sets. Right. And I think that footage there that it was just because it was just clipping. Yeah. Yeah. Just clipping whatever. That was after an initial failure point. So the thing I'm so I see I'm helping. Yeah. Yeah. That was a principle of DC that it's really nice to have a partner for. If you want to accumulate as many eccentric or negative reps as you possibly can. Okay. So this is this is this is this is whole snow negative. There's negative hold. So I help up. And even on except for maybe the first one doesn't matter so much. But after you go to failure once you're doing the second third part of the rest body set. Always help on the initial concentric. So you don't waste energy. And you can get that you start with a negative. And then if you get that last rep or close to it, at least you have a negative on the way down. So you want to accumulate the negatives because the negatives produce better growth. There's more force relative amount of muscle that's involved. And the concentric's create more fatigue. So I mean, shit literally, if you get to like the end of a rest body set and you're going to and you have to push that that way up to get but into being two reps, if someone were to help you, you can lower it and then maybe get three reps. Yeah. So you get maybe even four eccentrics as opposed to just two. So you literally and those are and there are, there are all that effort eccentric. Basically it's close as you can come with the freeway. Yeah. So the loading that you get by getting that assistance someone helping you up is tremendous. You end up adding like two or three reps and even more eccentric because you're always starting on an eccentric when someone's helping you up. Yeah. So a lot of people forget they wouldn't do that with DC training, especially if you're doing low reps like like A and then three and then two and that becomes A and then four and then three. Yeah. It makes a difference because if you think of it now in terms of effective reps, it's huge difference there. Oh yeah. I get any of the help up because the concentric produces growth but it's fatiguing and it's not as good as the eccentric in that regard. That makes total sense. Yeah. And Dante knew that. Like he recognized just from the fatiguing effect of that, you're getting the weight up and going like with dumbbells. Yeah. We don't do it here. We used to do those power hooks which you can still buy now and we'd use, we did dumbbell overhead presses with like the 100s, the 110s. Right. And you can those start here and you could stand up and grab hold of those and I could help him up. Okay. First rep. Yeah. Because with otherwise with dumbbells, it's the worst case scenario you want to do a rest-pause set in a low-up rod dumbbells. Good luck. Great. And it has in the man because it's dangerous when you're that but he trying to just get the weight in a position. Oh, it's yeah. Why does he have to do it? Yeah. So anybody who's going to do it's the behind the neck press in here? No man. Behind the neck presses. You don't see that as much anymore. I still do him. Dude. Yeah. Just did him two days a little. Okay. I still have that shirt. Oh yeah. That's a gold gym maple shirt actually. I still have it. The dead gym doesn't exist. This is a gold gym Tucson. Okay. That gym has changed hands. What if they still have that Smith machine? I think that's a side-back Smith machine. I like those. I like that era. Yeah. Smith machine. They at this gym. They had a two-and-a-quarter. Not bad. Not having that. They had a Smith machine in there. It was a great Smith machine. And they got rid of it. What had happened at the Golds of Venice there was a guy who was squatting and he didn't put it put the safety in on a Smith machine. Yeah. And he had an accident. I'm going to show what exactly happened but the weight came down on him and he was paralyzed. Oh God. Yeah. This was a long while ago. He was a lawyer and he sued Golds gym at one. You're kidding me. No. No. So Golds gym, like it just didn't rectify the issue. The fact was he just didn't use the safety's. But they just removed that particular, all the gyms that had that particular model Smith machine. They just took it out. No kidding. Just because of the potential liability. If they ever got very happy again with that machine, that's the way you're already know this machine is dangerous, right? Yeah. Yeah. And now it's the users of dangerous. But this sucks for the guy. But so they brought him to the Smith machine and that was basically the same thing. Right. Different brain. It's how old is the previous one. Yeah. Yeah. Obviously I want to hear what he has to say here. I'm seriously looking to get out of the they'd come up. But you know, I get, I guess, for as far as you know, overall strength that I would like the higher. I mean, the illusion is to set this. But I think that's the strength of your children. Was it was he saying he needs better overhead pressing strength? Yeah. I think they're asking him. I think it's something about whether his delts have come up since he's been in relative to a strength level. I think there's something about that. Okay. Can we wind it? If you want to. Yeah. It cut, it cut, started with him talking. Oh, yeah. This is just like these kind of like whatever clips he wasn't trying to make a production out of. Right. Right. I never thought of him as having weak delts. No. No. No. No. No. He took that. But that 120 pound dumbbell over. So you don't want to dumbbell overhead? It was just ridiculous. Yeah. He could just, he could just hoist that thing up and it's just like there's some motion. You know, body English? It was like how the fuck that you're doing that, you know? Yeah. So they got two and a quarter. You got two and a quarter out here. Now you're putting two dimes on each side. Oh, you're going to do this. I don't know. Yeah. I'm going to go over that. That's your. You look ready. Yeah. Yeah. It looks ready too. That may have been a few reps in. That's up the first one. Yeah. Yeah. And that's yeah. That's the be the little second or the third. Now I have. Yeah. You didn't start with that. No. No. I got probably. I probably got six or eight reps the first time. Okay. Okay. So you're doing a rest pause on this as well then. Yeah. So that was the second. Probably the second part. I see. Maybe get a rep here. I see. Oh, this is that's the that's the and that's the negative. Okay. The pulse negative. Just resisting. Oh. Yeah. That's tough. Yeah. No. We're doing all the fancy schmansy stuff here. Right? Like all the like a lot of things. This thing and yeah. Yeah. Beating twisting with like nearly three plates. You know. Yep. It's just like this is just fucking go for this shit. And this is this is DC. When we ran the schmist machine for safety reasons. I don't know how far out day is. But it's just just like one after the big weight. That's the way. Yeah. A little wallet. Yeah. That's a good message right there. And this was I don't know Dave. Try stuff. Yeah. Yeah. That's crazy that he could they could do it overhead tricep extension that had like with with with with with a dumbbell that most people can't press. Yeah. It was like I don't it was like it was like he was somehow like creating a a gravity vortex around himself worth it. It was just like no gravity like pretty uh pretty impressive. Yeah. It was just like almost like a parlor trick in a way because it didn't you know. So how does he do this shit? It's really close to you. Yeah. It's a pretty pressure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's having pain there. Oh, okay, longer forearm yeah. On this one's your side so you went a little wider in that fix. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. You just kicked that rock to it. It's a lot of chalk. I think I have, yeah. So press pause here. This is one of the things, if people scroll back, they can see that. Yeah, so that's a climber's bag of chalk. Oh yeah. Okay, so it comes in a little plastic zip lock bag. And whenever I go to a gym, like here, they don't want you to make a chalk mess, right? Right. So you just use the climber's bag. And literally, I just leave that in my little, a little bag I drag around with, whatever I needed in the gym, or just my gym bag. So I just reach in, you put your hand in there. In this case, I took it out. Just put your hand in there, you put the chalk on. It makes no mess whatsoever. That's going to leave it in the plastic bag, drop back and see it. I just chalk in gyms, where the chalk's not allowed, no one ever know. No, yeah. And until, yeah, I get your little bit of... Yeah, I get your little bit of... Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, what's easier? And the chalk, it's the same stuff, you know? So, yeah, those other bags. No, but see the thing is, the ones that I'm not the guy, isn't all that really cool? Did you throw that? Yeah, and he got his pro-card at the National. Was it? Oh, it's changed my flight. It's changed an effort. Yeah, changed an effort. Yeah, changed an effort. Well, it's open extra to anybody. Yeah, you see that? All right, thanks. So, staying an efforting just turned pro at this point. Yeah, I remember that. And he was the world's strongest bodyguard, they were doing that competition. I remember that him in Ben White, we're up against each other. Yeah, Johnny Jackson was part of that. Was he? He was in the conversation. I don't know if he ever did. I've got one on one because Johnny... Ben was our stand was stronger in piloting competitions, you know? Yeah. And Johnny, which says a lot. I saw a stand in the animal booth at the Arnold Pickup. Two hundred pound dumbbells up the floor, and then sit down and incline press them for like a dozen reps. Yeah. I saw him at the Olympia once. I just went up and said, hello. Yeah. And he's a big dude. He's a monster. He's a little bit more interesting. But the nine, he's got girl blows. Just definitely all tries it. The secondary strength is facing the chase. He's got a foster pad on there. Now he lives in Massachusetts. Does he? Yeah. He's looking what you're phone-telling out. Yeah. You know, because there's you two more on his arm? Yeah. How do you two more? It's a tries-up. It's a tries-up extension, too, man. He's here's it. He let me finish on a negative there. Right? Okay. And then he'll help me up. Just to get that negative. And that was now I'm just done. Nothing. Yeah. Yeah, Dave's still in great shape. Lucas. He said, remember him in a UK competition this year. He looked really good, although he lost to a local guy called Pitbull. Yeah, that guy was a monster. I saw that big that second. Yeah. I think he's doing the monolutee. I'm not positive. I'm pretty sure. I think I heard that, too. Yeah. That was it, man. That was some cool stuff. Yeah. That was the Bruce. We're giving us that. Yeah, that was the first time I hit ever seen you. Was on a Dave Henry video. But I have around the house here somewhere. And you guys were training at your gym there. You trained. And then you were also you showed, you know, the whole therapy side of things. Two and I was like, that's interesting. Because it's something completely different. You didn't see that in any of the other videos. Yeah. It was a we called it a holistic health club. Yeah. So this video, I can reference this was extreme measures or his other one. But I don't think we filmed anything at my gym. We went to the other place. It's just to mix it up. Yeah. We did a treatment there. But yeah, I had the gym on the other side. And that was like, you know, Dave and I hardcore training in there. And we had a bodybuilding meetup group. Like we'd have slag iron and sushi. Yeah. You did. With the video I had, you guys did train at your gym. Yeah. Okay. The other one. Okay. But yeah. So there's one side. There's massage and acupuncture. And we had a hypnotherapist. And people doing various cool things. Like, I'll turn it if there are a piece. That's kind of. Then we had the gym on the other side. So. And then you know, that was like, we could say that was a different era of bodybuilding. And to think that Dave Henry is still competing today. I know. You know, that's pretty incredible. That really is. Yeah. Totally man. He's still going after it. He's just doing what he loves. Yeah. So yeah. He's like a city's been like, Dave and I, Like, it's been like, it's just about the last year. He decided to kind of do his own thing. Yeah. I think the works together for like 16 or I don't know how many years it was. It was like, we first started, which started training together and shortly, He was just, I would just throw an idea back for. And then eventually it kind of evolved into, I was more coaching him. And then when I moved, then he would just, Then it was, you know, basically really coaching. We're doing on my website. Yeah. Unabretarction for it. I just helped him, you know. Yeah. But that was like a 16 year relationship. Something like that, which is, you got like the fill heath. And his coach, she got Flex Lewis and Neil Hill. Like there weren't too many other like Dexter Jackson had a couple different coaches over the time. But Dave and my coaching relationship was like, One of the longest ones just because of Dave's longevity in the history of professional bodybuilding. I think. And just because he was, he's been out of for so long, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that's where I first started really learning about, That's the first time I saw somebody who was like a big name doing this. Yeah. And then I started doing the same doing DC training too. You know, that's where he started. You know, other than that, I saw it on the message boards. Yeah. He had Dave, Dave wasn't doing DC training. And I've been doing it before. That's why I was kind of leading up to that before we did the high volume thing. And I just got destroyed. Yeah. And, and I've like, I told him about it. He checked into it. Like this gives us a shot. And it's like, well, how do we do it? I'm like, I kind of showed him like what I thought to be the best version of DC training that I'd do. Yeah. But I'm like, you got a contact Dante. Go with the man, like, you guys write. This is your professional career. That's when he contacted Dante. I got came to know Dante. That and then of course, you intense muscle. And I can't remember which happened first to be honest. Yeah. And then Dave, I just got CCed on all of Dave's emails with Dante. So we did Dave Henry DC training. And I just went along for the ride. So I did whatever Dante had Dave do. That's cool. I got to see how we changed things. Dave was the guy. Like Dave was, I think Dave is probably, you know, probably, you know, we switched to then 42 training. Okay. You know. And but we did DC training for like eight years. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So we've under Dante initially the first couple years. And then we then Dante stopped training people. And then I was became the trainer. And then we were doing it with me. And then I did a lot of 42 training and Dave started doing that. But Dave was probably the probably the best known dusty, of course. Yeah. Of course. He's probably like the poster child of DC. Andrew makes a good one. Andrew says, keep in mind a lot of guys were doing DC or having Dante help them in some aspect. But due to Flex Magazine contracts, they had to say they did the ghost written work outs that they posted. They did that so true. There was a, they did an article in muscle mag on Dave. Okay. And they came out to my gym and did a photo shoot of Dave. And they sent me a thing like as a thank you for like, they sent me this big plaque. I'm not sure where it is now. And it had like the like the pictures basically was framed like one of those laminate plaques that had the article in there. Yeah. And then it had two sunfitnesses and wellness. And it had Dave's training program, which was just some bullshit. You're kidding me. It wasn't anywhere close. I mean, it wasn't like we just started doing DC training. He'd been doing it for like six years. Something like that. It was not anywhere near. And that's all there is. Yeah. I mean totally true. That's hilarious. Dante was helping. I think, but that was true. That was the part of the cover up that people didn't know who was doing DC training. Dante, I mean, he was also giving a lot of people supplements. Okay. That was answered by other companies because they just wanted to use Dante stuff or they just didn't like want to use the others because he knew where there's maybe being source from what had you. So Dante wasn't like, he wasn't making it known that he's supplying, you know, athlete, X, Y and Z with his supplements. He just helped him out. He did that for for day for years. That's crazy. I mean, yeah, I won't say anymore. Right. Yeah. You helped date out with with supplements for quite a while. That's cool. Yeah. Yeah. So Dante was a tremendously giving. He's been he was so giving, you know, without asking for, you know, acknowledgement for many, many, many years. He helped so many people like under the fly under the radar. And he didn't, you know, people said, oh, he's bragging about all these people. He's talked to like, yeah. He was like, I'm notist. Yeah. He didn't make it known, but when he needs to substantiate something, he'll bring that up. People, well, you're just full of shit. It's like, how can we don't know about all these people you've talked to is because they don't talk about it until it makes sense to talk about it. Yeah. So that's the thing. Like, if I don't know if we're going to have time for the boron topic, Yeah. Maybe, do you want to hold off on it and do it another time? We can do that another time, yeah. But that question came in and we can do some maybe if we have time for just some quick ones that are popped up during the, the, well, if we did, we'd have to do it as a separate thing. That's a good moment. Yeah. Yeah. And we can do that together. Let's, let's, let's, on the next episode. Let's do boron and Q and A because you, we do have a bunch of good questions that people have asked you. But this did run a little bit. We should know in, you know what? We should know in man. I'm really glad we got to do this though, man. I'd been wanting to do this for, since you sent it to me. Yeah. You know, this is, this is special. Like I said, man, dude, I feel like, Furkin honored to be able to watch this. Yeah. Here, first of all, period. But second of all, with you. Like this is, this is like looking back in history with somebody who was part of it. So that's, Frick, and, and like, really, and it's not even really history. It was literally a decade ago. But like, a really cool period of time. And I think a lot of people will, will get a, a lot of, excuse me. A lot of people will get a lot of appreciation out of that. Yeah. You know what's interesting, too, is, you know, this was all before the days. I mean, the Facebook was around, I think. Yeah. But nowadays, everyone's filming everything. Yeah. Yeah. But no, no, and it was really right. And like, Dave and I were, even I were like, just banging it out. You know, we were, there was a period of time. Like when I was an active puncture school. Yeah. Dave was working on the military base. I was had to be in class at eight or nine o'clock at somewhere which, maybe it was nine o'clock. I think it was eight o'clock. We'd meet at the gym at six. I'm trained. Or five, thirty. Wait, six in the morning are you saying? Yeah. Five for the morning. Okay. So we trained like that, you know, for like, at least two years. Okay. You know, why was an active puncture school? And then there were times when Dave, because Dave was, they've changed a schedule. You know, he's have control over when he's there. So we just went, we just went, we just went after it for a year. And we never filmed shit. We never, no, no, no. You know, you still, you still don't, I've been with you. It's like, if I don't get the camera out and something, it's not going to happen. Yeah. Like, yeah, it's living in the moment, you know, and it's just kind of just fractional. But so it is kind of cool to have a little this. But what's not appreciated, I guess, is that we just, like, went after it for, yeah, I had up the, I had up the workouts, you know, 150 workouts, training three or four times a week, 150 to 200 workouts a year, you know, for like eight years. Yeah. It's a lot of workouts, over a thousand workouts, right? So yeah, and with that just, that's just a few of them. So, when it's after just like, there was once I was thinking about the field of the day, there was once we did, we did Smith squats. Okay. At that, that gold's gym where you are, and it was before actually they had remodeled it. It looks really nice. They put some stuff on the walls. And actually, guy named who I just talked to the day, Mike Masunis, I don't think it watched this. But he ended up working in with us. He was on that Smith machine. He's a buddy of days, but he might, and we did that, and we did a widow maker, and we got done. Went and sat on on the bench, you know, we would put our bags, and we, you know, we would sit on the bench before we train and fill out our log books and think what we're going to do. We sat on that bench for an hour. After the workout, we were so flat. We were so flat. We didn't see anything. It's like, it's kind of waiting, you know, you're waiting for you to kind of like, the energy to turn, it's like, okay, I think I can turn to get hungry, and then I get up and get dry at home and, yeah. Nothing, man. A hour, like literally, that time, one of us is like, I'm like, we gotta get up and get out of here. It's just like, no, man, it's just like, we used to do that all the time. We had a lot of those work out. So, yeah, that's the thing that goes missed with some of these videos. You don't realize, you know, it's also going on. That's cool. Well, thank you again, Scott, for taking the time. And once again, plug everything for this video, anybody who wants to go and check the actual videos out, where can they go find this stuff? M-O-C video.com, Bruce Lester is the man. I think he's got a self-mint store, now maybe even Jim, he's doing some other things, but this is why I can't tell you, say for sure, but God, I would love for him to do that again. You know, he's on the road and start doing those things, because, you know, it was even today, with social media the way it is, like those videos, those battle for the Lempia videos, which is so freaking cool. They were pretty special, because it, you know, battle for the Lempia, it brought everybody together in one video, which was nice. First is, you can still follow everybody. You just have to go to social media and do it through their each individual channel, but it was so awesome to be able to grab that DVD and throw it in there and know you're going to get to see all the top guys and all their gyms and see them all come together, too, you know? I think, and I wonder, too, if even some of the athletes have contracts that won't allow them to be part of something like that, or maybe they demand a lot of, because it was just, Mitch just came around, I remember like when Ronnie, the Rani, won the Lempia, he was like, they filmed him afterwards. Okay. There's no one's even think he's going to win. He was on the video, but they went to him after he won. Because he was like, oh shit, we didn't include this Rani Coleman guy and he won. Oh shit. Yeah, but I don't know, it might be tougher today to do all those film all those, but that would be cool, you know, because all the guys know each other just as well. Now is the end and they're communicating. Like, who adds podcast? Everyone's kind of hidden. The world has gotten smaller. So these guys, if you went around and did a video like that, and he goes and talks to Ian by air, or whoever it is, and he's talking about. There's less contracts now. There's less. So I feel like, yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, there's no more like magazine contracts, I don't think. Oh yeah, yeah. You know, it's like, I think everybody would be up for it. I really do. And people get the benefit of publicity. You know what I mean? Like, I think they'd be up for it. Somebody Bruce needs to step out there and who knows it would be so much work though. But it would be cool if we were to see it, you know. I mean, who knows, maybe there's someone who's ambitious enough of a photographer that you're always wants to like get hired on by Bruce to do it. There you go. That'd be a great end. Yeah. Yeah. He dedicated, like, just like, myths, there's like a month and a half of traveling around, you know, and waiting for the right days and getting up with the butt crack a dawn to go meet Flex Wheeler at Venice Golds, you know. Yeah. Got the train when no one would bother him and, you know, it was a huge outcoring. It may not have been worth it monetarily at that time, but I bet now I bet now that would you really well. I would love to see that happen. I buy that for sure. Hell yeah. Yeah. For another episode here of Muscle Mines with Scott Stevenson. Guys, you may not be coached by Scott, but you just about could be, if you get his book for real, it's an entire, it'll plan your entire year through figuring out what you want to do with your off season, all the way to the point that you step on stage. Check out B-Rome Bodybuilding Coach. That's B-Y-O-B-B coach.com. We mentioned Dante, you know, just to tie all the pieces together. If you didn't know, true nutrition is owned by Dante Trudel. Check out true nutrition.com. Use it or code think. They believe in what we're doing, and both Scott and I have believed in them long before this podcast even existed. Check out supplementsorst.ca for those of you in Canada and check out Strom Sports Nutrition for everybody all the way across the pond. They've got some good health supplements over there, definitely worthwhile. Of course appreciate all your Patreon, all the Patreon subscribers. You guys are awesome. It's Scott Stevenson. This is, oh, and we can't forget a M-O-C video. Go, Scott, I'm going to see you. I'll put a link below for that too. You guys can go back and check out all the awesome videos that they have there. Scott, man, this is Beyond A Pleasure. I have no words. This was last. Thanks for making this happen, brother. I'm glad I could.

So, less than a week ago, I get a call from the guys at Mute and they're like, hey, what do you think about coming out to Vancouver and recording your podcast live with Dussie and Ron from West Coast Iron? Maybe check out the facilities, check out Mute and headquarters, and today less than a week later, I'm in here, we're heading to Vancouver, so I think you guys posted, this is going to be a pretty trip, like I'm even more in staying, alright? This is gonna be interesting, this is truly an adventure. Alright, we're here. What is this? Come on, we're here. Come on, man. Come on, man, let's go. Come on, man. I'm sick of getting things going on. Hello. What's up? Is that the secret weapon? She's the proger there. Gay color. Send me the Mx. Yes. The Mx is actually sending us to the community. I think they didn't even see the stress, they said they're sending us to the community. You know, like, you said we like mad ones? Right. We are live. Welcome. It's just bodybuilding live from West Coast Iron. courtesy of mutant, of course. We got the flag. We got dusty handshaw, fresh out of the shower. And amazingly enough, mutant brought Scott McNally up to settle this up for us. And get this live and we appreciate everything. And that's it, that's life. Remember everybody? It's just bodybuilding. What do we got here, dusty? Beef, cherry hot beef. I went, um, your 50% being because you got veggies. Uh, I'm 0% being the sister meat you're right. Dusty your food has a light in it. The thing is, you can only eat the sushi pizza, not to eat the light. That's the light, it was, that was a second time with the hospital, but the real thing. Girl, I'm like that. Now I gotta watch what I say. You know how good I am at that. Hey, Brian. You can't even join me. You can hear me, sure, new buddy. New grids, rats. You ready to go? You can go hand to the toilet. I'm going, I like, another one's fake. All the way. Wait. What is it? Now. Blow it. I'm gonna get eye-cossacks. I got one more blow. I don't know what I got. I see me go there sometimes. Which one I'm going to switch up on a bit. From here to here. I'll start with the little bit of men's lips. So you can drive it for the end. I just thought, hey, it's really on balance. It's not my men's lips. So now I'm gone. Have you trained yet? Yeah. We're out of trained today? Yeah. Pretty soon. Okay. Follow you guys around. You're waiting for the rush. Call me. Call me. Call me. I see the world like it's ready for the takin'. I see this place like a game I'm playing straight to the bank to collect my payments. No no no she ain't shit. It's my way. I was born in patient. And like a damn free place and I'll run this nation. Call me. Call me. We're working with the group. He's a little bit co-coated. How'd your day go? Day was phenomenal. Say it was phenomenal. That's fun. I see you're trying to do this in a fun day. You should have worked to do this. You should have worked. We're just checking. We got a knock-out. All-life has nothing to do with their goals. And you should like, eat. We're catching the action. The food's burning. We're putting it in a bodyguard in the box. Yeah. I see that. I see that. I see that. Yes. What do you have there? I need to get a bit of a chicken. And rice. Oh we got chicken and rice on the hands. You have a bodyguard in me. Oh we use pineapple. But garlic and garlic is the most measured out. Trying to keep up. You're not a chance. So Jamie, what's the secret to your coffee making skills here? You've got the instructions. You're getting back to form. Like the side instead of half in the serving you're doubling it. Double in it. This is legit the strongest coffee. I think I have ever had in my entire life. I'm so awake right now. It's not slow. Two spoons in per cup. Oh my skull is off. One spoon per cup. Or some heavy. I usually do like one tablespoon per two cups. That's what we did yesterday. That turned out. So what he did. He did. I did two per one cup. Who is this strong? It was the strongest coffee. This is after we added more water. That was like after we added a bit more. I feel like I'm going to be in the bathroom. Real quick. That's enjoyable. That's good. Yeah. It's good. It'd be ready for your day. It's good. It takes that much just as a feneronous coffee. I've never eaten a chocolate. I've got a block of block. So I have to know what goes on here. This is preparation for the next round of shoots. What do we got going on over here? He's right to jam. Yes. What are you eating? I asked him with our mouthful. What are you eating? We'll come back. Dusty. I just did six eggs. Four pieces of toast. I triple chopped coffee. I'm way over it England. Yes. That's what I do it. Keep it classy. Keep it classy. Alright. I'm going back to Shelby. Boom. You can have morning. Oh, my. Five ounces. Um, we all. Here he's. We're going to stand there and buy the bill there. Correct. She just woke up. Sorry, guys. I had. Oats. And. Tea of butter. Alright. And. Actually, two more eggs. Yeah. You guys aren't training lakes today. Are you guys not? Alright. One more. We're going to go. Whoa. And what is it? This is what a giant breakfast looks like. This is a stall. I'm going to. It's those. Yes. Four eggs. Yes. Nice. I don't have any of the few tables of people for myself. And me and his, like, basically everything you could possibly need over here. I was going to get a bunch of stuff over here. Now, how is breakfast going to look different tomorrow? Do you know for sure? No. It's going to be the same because I'm not a crab. So. What's your idea? Call it. Call it. And that's going to be. You got to be in here. 78. It does seem to be very dangerous. That's right. Let's go down here. That's the important thing. We're going to go on. We'll ground beef action. Yeah. I don't want to be at once before I train this. We're going to ground beef. Meals. I'm going to show you guys a little jam. If you don't know, Dale's. Dale's life. Changing for ground beef. One of his nails. Garlic powder. Onion powder. Now can you get this code? Does he 20? Yeah. It is some of these nuts. Oh, there you go. It's not. So yeah. You should definitely have a taste. Tears from the half per pound or else it gets salty. Like, it's not. Do you want to start with the taste? Yes. What's that mean? The agenda for today. Well, these both are going to have a jam. And they're going to go do their thing. Yes. You are coming with me to the office. You're going to go get it to work. And I'm going to show you around. Trace some stuff. Yeah. You have to sign it. You know, wait. That's what's the waiver. You get that. Okay. Talk about it. We're there. Okay. Okay. We're going to be exposed to stuff that you know, no one sees it. So this is not our traditional Vancouver day, right? Look. This will be going in. Probably like tomorrow. It'll probably ran. Okay. I think it's my fault. Kind of I brought it with me. It was still in a lot of Michigan. Yeah. It is. Always. Where's it? It's not going. You're on my way. It's when we put Jamie inside of the standard size for the equivalent. You got some clues here. They actually like this. It goes forward. Oh. That's a big question. It's not the ad going forward. Yeah. There you go. Seption. That's last. Just enough. You know what? Yeah. Well, I'm a sort of guy. So yeah. Yeah. This is the life of a shorter guy. A few. It was a different story. So coming to mutant. I had a vision being able to take video of like protein going into juggs and down conveyor belts and all that stuff and I did see those things and I saw the research and development where they're creating new supplements and flavors and stuff. I saw everything they're doing with creating new merch and different lines that are going to be a bit different. The only thing is they didn't want me to shoot video at any of that. So I wasn't what I expected but I'll tell you what. It was really cool to have that opportunity to check it out. The take home point to me is really that these guys they really do care about hardcore body building meaning like they haven't forgotten about their roots. And you know, that's not super common in a company that is growing the size of mutant. So I love seeing that. You can see it in the way they treat people. You'll look at the athletes that they support. Look at the way they take care of them. They even they advertise with think big. So it's pretty cool. Oh, and I did get a picture of this cutout with Ron. There you go. All right. Can you make that look like a pro? Yeah. You know, you're the host. I'm not. I'm the host of the most. I'm the host of the most. I'm the host of the most. I'm the host of the most. I'm the host of the most. I'm the host of the most. I'm the host of the most. We're we just here near what was this. And bull again. Yeah, it's this place. Good. The cross street with Jim. Stake rice, karaoke, those you need. Maybe I threw a little sushi in the day, you know. Yeah. And it's our with for us. Yes. Then five were here. And six were here that seven and eight. So that's what happened in your cross street with Jim. No, no, no, no, no. It's just well. It's cross street. You hear? Because of the second time you've been on the mission. Isn't it? Yes, it's my step. But if I was a quarter host last time. Yeah. Now I am Ron part of the year. You know, I'm going to be a little taller today. I'm going to stand up. Just angle it like this. Yeah, yeah. And I'll stand next to you like this. I'm going to have Ron kind of, you know, conquer down as they say. Yeah, you could have looked at one of those boxes for you to stand up. Yeah, it's really perfect. It's going to be good. Yeah, I'm going to walk and throw. And I'm going to ask Ron questions that I want to know. I think that I've learned that from Joe Rogan. Yeah. I'm not going to try to be clear. What is that to one of those? But what do you want to know that you don't know is a question. There's a lot. Yeah. I already kind of figured out like I want to get into like, what's your little fear? Because I mean, think of the pressure of being a quick and guy like Ron. Oh, I'm opening your own gym. Yeah. You've got to stack up against the best gym you've been in the world as you've been doing. It's easy to critique other people. Oh, yeah. And the businesses. Everyone thinks that the businesses are not in this easy. Yeah. You get into a gym business. Especially a hard-clutch gym. Yeah. Your carb-dub. Oh, I'm way too hard. I'm curved up just to watch. You know? What I might need you to spot us in one time. All right. Look for me as a, uh, we're a confident business. We're in a good team. Yeah. I'm going to miss something. I'm just taking off and we're going to Canada. I think you do it with the number. For a second. It's fun. You've got to look like you have a hustle of getting. You're like you do what you're doing. Yeah. Oh, no. Oh, no. I've got all my shoes. I got some mutants too. Oh, you do. Yeah. They hooked you up. They did. Nice. You got to get all the food. I've got some beer. Oh, yeah. Oh, wait. You mean got that. Oh, okay. Yeah. Glove of the. Gotcha. Oh, wait. Look where we're at. Family show. What's going on? It's best go starting. Oh, wait. I think that's one of the owners right there. I was so sick of it. I have to go in and get a hammer. A little behind the scenes here. So we're going to different talk. I'm going to do two separate. My. Oh, yeah. Look at all this. Oh, that's high touch. I'm going to get you. Oh, I'm going to get you. Oh, I'm up some lemon candy. That sounds fantastic. A whole scoop. No, no, no, no. Like maybe a little like a half a scoop. Please. You want to have a. A whole surprise. What's the free workout there, Ron? My own personal. I'm trying to keep in my office. Of course. No. It's a four minute. Yeah, special stock. Does the. And I didn't get to use that all in. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. You know, you know, You know, You know, You know, I'm. I'm. Yeah, Yeah. I'm. I'm. This is my answer, everything. I'm. I'm. Hey. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. So this. But everyone. Ask. We walk around. Yeah. We make sure we see the. We make sure we leave. We just walk a whole floor. Yeah. And just chat. No. Pick whatever you want to talk about. And it's. I think you just say like. You know, I even. I'm even five. Like, I'm. That's the hands. I love it. You know, I'm. You know, I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. Okay. What's. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. Excellent. Dude. Look. Well we. You. Dive. Yeah. If. Dude. If. Did. If. Yeah. If. If. If. If. If. I. If. If. Have. If. If. If. If. If. If. If. go set rebels Yeah Absi'd You gotta do that so fast OK Well OK It was good because it's a combo for my hands on the sides. Yeah, how's your work out? It was good man. It was fun. It was fun to train my dust y'all. I don't care what we do. I just want to go hard and have a good workout and stay healthy and you know, so if you did some tea bars, we just did, I don't normally do those early in the work out. Yeah, this is not heavy, but there were good. I love that not always machine. Yeah, I'm going to be finished with it. That was a good one. It was really good. I'm used to starting with it. Yeah, and it takes me a while to warm up on it because you're scratching and doing it at the end there, I just hopped in. I'm like straight work. Yeah, I don't know. Yeah, I'm doing it. I mean, all that. It's great time. Always good to, always stay with Ron and General. You remember this trip from a little special? It's kind of band me for a while. Individual, no one else. Just think it's. Yeah, and Bob, we get to the better judgment. I love me back. I can't strike the best for a style at all. Hey. This one? This one? They'll be over at the traffic with this one. This is my go. One side. It's easier to push the big foot. I'll be over there. Oh, my God. Hey, it's hot. Hey, it's hot. Oh, my God. Oh, what a snack. You guys do it. Yeah. I love it. Yeah, it's really just interesting. Thanks, toast. Yeah, what's good? I think it was better for my liking. Nice. Yeah, it was in the Libya, like hanged or whatever. Is that the time that Samson needed? Exactly. Show up like, boom. See, is it good show up? Samson could show up and be like, Sup, Ron. So how's your week going, Sup Mark? It's great. Have it all you guys around. It's been a lot of fun. You know, a little bit of extra actually to break up my month. Let's be poor, man. So yeah, but fortunately, having long today. I know, it's been great to have you around for a couple of days. I know you got plenty to do at home. So I know you probably got to get home and get back to work and all that stuff. Yeah. Yeah. When I put, I would stay for a couple more days. Yeah. I shot the week. What you doing today for the best guy? I'm going to miss you today. Actually, I got three things today. I got a new way. I've told you to shoot this morning with the new and you know, but these and all that stuff. Yeah. So I'm going to go to that and then I've got some recipe, stuff to film and I've got to work out to shoot the Jason Breeze for its still closed. We just stopped by the gym. George probably over. We're going to take a quick picture. And then unfortunately, I got to head home.

Who's gonna win the 2023 Mr. Olympia? Me. What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with Coach's Skip Hill. Andrew Barry, myself, Scott McNally, and we are joined by the one and only Nick Walker. What's up brother? How you doing? What's up guys? Thanks for joining us. All of our programming is brought to you by Trunetrition.com. Use our code Think for additional savings. We're brought to you by SupplementSource.ca for our Canadians. And of course, we're brought to you by you guys. Everybody at Patreon, thank you for your support. I'm excited to get this thing going. Andrew, where do we want to start man? Well, I think, you know, we had a question in a previous episode about, you know, what to do in a post-show phase in terms of diet training, et cetera. And Nick is in that phase right now. And I would just love to hear what he's up to right now. And let it go from there. Yeah. So after the show, I actually, if you guys know who Jared Feathers is, you know what I mean? I mean, I got a collab on it. He's going to do my training now. He's trying something new. As far as doing the push-through legs with really structured my training and keeping track of progress, which is what we have never done. Just to see how my body reacts. As far as nutrition goes, whatever the show, and that's having a diet, which is, I don't want to say macro gaze, but it was just like, Mills, one, two, three, 15 grams of fat, two hundred grams of, you know, rice, and two hundred and twenty-five grams of more protein. And then four, five and six, so it's kind of something else. There's, there's reason I'm for doing that, we're trying to, uh, de-structure me a little bit, and let me kind of chill. Knowing how I am, I'm always structured, so I think I need to work out. Um, so if I actually set the structured diet today, I'm going to want my food, so I'm going to be pretty happy about that. But it doesn't mean I didn't allow a lot of pretty good amount of treatment. Oh, those courses since got out. I would make sure I was in the diet that I was somewhat doing, but allow me to really, you know, go part on the sheet days, that I did not really put on any weight. Because that's what this morning, I was 256, and I thought, I was 288, and nobody thought that was 50. So, man, you looked like you were like two 80 on stage too, which is crazy. I mean, it's not to say that you were a light, but to say that, you can look that big at 246, which is pretty amazing. But, um, what I want to know is, you know, following that show, do you give yourself like two weeks of relaxed training, or do you just get right back to the gym on Monday, and it's punching the clock, business is usual? Do you, do you, do you load a little bit? Uh, new form, new to the gym. No, no, no. I don't want to, you know, this, this, this, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was, I was kind of got back into the new thing. That means, that makes sense. And so you probably only had like three or four free meals, and then it's right back to your structured diet, just because it's like, this is your profession. This is what you do. Yeah, I mean, I, uh, you know, just a little more, you know, now that, I'm going to very, you know, this is serious relationship, I wanted to make sure we had some downtime, the kind of the laks outside of my own training. So, you know, we brought the game, we were just brought to breakfast. We want to a lot of, well, breakfast buffet. So now you can eat it. It's always the best post-contest. I love the breakfast buffet after a show. It's like something you just, all these different food options that you didn't even think of previously. Oh, my God, the best. I would, I would do those before ladies. And, you know, sometimes I would eat a little too much. So, you've got to see from the top. Yeah. Okay, so let's talk a little bit about the Arnold. If you want to, if you don't mind, a lot of people online and I'm sure you saw some of these comments, like, oh, you look like you have more of us. Well, so like people thought that maybe your Olympia looked from last year would have trumped everybody on that stage. Do you agree with that statement? Oh, did you, did you, well, hold on. Did you do things differently going into this prep? What is this? You had a much more streamlined midsection. And I do want to go into that, like, what you did to keep your mind, I know you've been working on it for years because watching you as an amateur coming up the ranks, I feel like your midsection got smaller and smaller. But maybe talk about that for a minute. So, do I think, well, let me look, well, try it. It's hard to predict, you know, it's not obviously what I've got. You know, I actually do Olympia. You know, when they met, decided to do the on-look, the goal was to come in more field. You know, every time we do a show, we're pretty peeled. And we did peel off the Olympia, and we weren't adds peeled as you know, we are. Yeah, it was full as a house. But there was still work that couldn't be done. You know, so going into the Arnold, we wanted to be peeled. So, as far as, you know, keeping the waist down, you know what we did, it was, we was dying harder. Really. So, it's not going to really drastically be a different way except just dying harder. Because I know that's something you had talked about even years ago. I remember you say something about, like not doing certain back movements, because, yeah, I don't do anything really bent over. Yeah, yeah. So, you've been thinking about this for a long time, really, is what it comes down to. I don't do what's in the wide eye, I love one of the other roles. Yeah. I can try to put the best leg in. I can do it like I do. Like it goes in, not every week, maybe like, I'm trying to try to month just because I do enjoyed doing that. But I just feel anything bent over, because, you know, the waist is thinking a little bit depending. Sure. So, I just think those out from the waist. Yeah, yep, it's a great. You have to be nice. You have to be nice. Yeah, I mean, I just thought, really squatting anything that I thought that would hinder, thickening the waist. I just still got it. So, are you given more credit to the change in the training by dropping those exercises or to the diet itself and just giving leaner and running in the waist? I think both. You know, because I haven't really, except last year, I never really have a long, long season. So, I, I'm sort of believe that the longer you're kind of in a threat, the better your shape will eventually become because you're not eating a lot of cardier food. So, you're not really feeling bloated or anything for a long period of time. So, I think the longer you're in a threat, eventually, you know, the waist shape, sharing his own ears, your eating foods that properly digest, you know? Yeah, yeah, I'm going to make sense to me. Are there any particular things you do with like a gut protocol, supplement wise, back in training, any of that kind of stuff that goes along with the changes in your training over the years? I just think a lot of, you know, the digestion products. But I just think, really just comes down to making sure you're eating the foods that digest the best. And I've learned over time, you know, I've calculated what problems you've like, and digest the best in a large quantity, what, you know, carbs I can digest the best in a large quantity, and even fats, you know, I'm a big believer in fats, I think fats are good. You know, so I've learned pretty much after every meal, just kind of sit at the chill and see how I felt, how my stomach felt, if I was a frog in the house, I'd probably try it, and I'd tell a judge to it. Now with that, not no gift in the feedback, and that's what we would do. Okay, then. Awesome. So, you know, so, go ahead. I think we have a leg. Oh, take it, man. Okay, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm going to say so, you know, based off the Arnold and who you won against, who won the Arnold, who's going to be on the Olympia stage. What do you nick Walker need to do to win the Mr. Olympian 2023? You've read my mind. So, my goal is to pretty much have the same condition with not more than I had at the Arnold, but just be as full as I was at the Olympia. And if I can combine those two, I don't see why I could lose. Is this something you have already talked about in terms of strategy? What does work with carbine up? What does work with dry now? Yeah, you know. You know, the peaking. So, the peaking process, we pretty much have down, you know, how we, we pretty much know what my body is going to do at this point. As far as the whole peaking process goes right now, you know, doing this all season. The goal, may go with the burnout more or the other sheep. So, we're getting, you know, certain different movements to really focus on that. Or my pie car days and the G days, you'd say, or based around my late day training. This goes with those cheat days real quick. You opened up the door there, so I'm going to, I'm going to go through. And I want to try to make the connection or the comparison relationship, I guess, is a better way to explain it. Between the cheat meals and the control or, or midsection, bringing your midsection down. What are those, what are those cheat meals look like as far as volume of food, type of food, and frequency, the closer you get to a show. So, honestly, you know, going into the Arnold, there really was no cheat meals. No pretty much just really really high carb days. You know, as far as now the cheat meals, basically, you know, I could have a breakfast if I want. Or I could have a dinner or like a burger and try with some dessert. And for me, burgers and fries, that is the best. Or I could really jump away, you know, your plate's pretty, you know, not too cheap, but it's still cheap. And some of you can eat every day. So, that's pretty much how we have a structure now. A lot of time, back in the day, you do two cheat days on a late day. So, I would do a big breakfast and then probably go on a big dinner. But for me, I felt like that was too much in one day. So, I kind of spread them out to where, you know, to say, my, I do two late days a week or one like that. I do a breakfast and then like they would do like a nice dinner. So, does that mean you look like you're just basically like when you walk in, are the employees like hiding food or telling you that they don't have like, are you putting down so much volume that it scares people or is it kind of controlled? You know what, I'm full. Definitely have the breakfast and coffee, that's the story. You probably haven't counted it the buffet, but I'm not throw this one up here because Chase Irons had a question that ties right in. What is the most amount of carbs that you've eaten in a day? So, that would probably be like on a planned day, I'm guessing. So, yeah, I really don't like a structure diet. Like my structure diet is probably six hundred grams of carbs. Okay. But if I went out and did like the whole buffet thing, shit like that, we're going to do a 1000 for sure. Yes, yeah. Because when I walk through buffet, like I don't, I don't eat a lot of foods to eat just because I don't, I'm going to have the carbs right? So, this is my thing that my friends, cereal, page trees, a bunch of fruit, pancakes, I'm not sure. That's my jam right there. So, you didn't really have it. My friends in total Joey's, my girl, we'll sit there all day and get that. Yeah, yeah, yeah, and that stuff doesn't fill you up. It's gotta be strawberry jam. That's a good call. You didn't really have it much of an offseason, you know, between the Olympia to the Arnold. It's just such a quick turnaround. So, now you're getting this good chunk of time. You're able to eat some food. You're able to relax a little bit. You've got this new training plan. You must be feeling pretty good right now, moving into this. What are you really enjoying? This afternoon after the Arnold five or I'd say, if you could give me heart, you know, I really thought I was, you know, obviously going on that show. Yeah, in corrective section obviously he looked incredible. But I really thought I had that one. So kind of, you know, not without a few matches, but I'm starting to get back in my room and, you know, to me. And we've got some redemption on. Well, moving forward now into everything you're doing. And man, like I said, you know, you got momentum building behind you. And I'm sure you're feeling good. You got this new training plan. What do you really enjoying about the workouts you're doing now? Like, what's really feeling, what are you excited about? I think just the structure of it, you know, I was always the one back on the train. And I didn't want to the structure because I feel that's just added stress, you know. If you don't get your numbers or whatever the case is. But I see that there. It's down. So I just want to try that and I just give it excited the change for now. I find it funny that you say you don't like you didn't love the structure. And in fact, because you're training, when we watch the videos is extremely structured in terms of rep execution. So you talk a little bit about that. Yeah, it's going to take you on your rep speed. Yeah, go ahead. But as far as, you know, counting reps, like say, you know, oh, I did 150 pound doubles for an inclined dumbbell press 12 this week. Next week, I wanted to take it for 14 reps. I didn't care for that. I was just the one, you know, if I feel good, I'm going to train heavier. If I don't, I'm going to train a little differently. There was never like, I want to be someone who wasn't, it wasn't like a straight, and aggressive overload type thing. Yes. So now that I'm kind of doing that now, it's kind of a new motivation. Yeah. Gotcha. So tell us a little bit about your rep execution because most guys, I can't remember exactly how we'll do our, but most guys, when they start out training in early on in their career, you know, they're more ballistic, they're get the reps at any, you know, any cost or any, any way necessary. You have such good cadence and control over the heavy weights that you're using. When did you really start to hone in and develop that? Or was that something you started with from day one? No, I was pretty ballistic when I started. I'm actually, when he, I mean, you know, got together back in 2019. He didn't do my training per se, but he told me slow movement down, you know, control, and do you essentially drop and explode up? So that's kind of, I thought I had, like, kind of restart. Oh, I, um, that's just what I did and the Russian just came very, very fast. Yeah, I hope the listeners hear that because that, it's one of the first things I noticed when I, when I see your videos is the, the execution, it's so methodical, it's so controlled. And I want to make sure that I say this the right way because I'm the old head of the group. And you're the youngest one and yet you're level and where you are. I don't want to diminish that. What I want to say though is, for younger trainers, it's uncommon to train with such control and such focus on the muscle through training versus what Andrew was saying with more of a ballistic style train. It's almost like you get to the point in a set where you go, yeah, I'm losing the field. It's not where it's been and, and your racket versus I'm just going to get three more reps no matter what. That control is there and it's very, it's all that before breaks are stuff. It's beautiful. Yeah, I know that. Just a little bit. I'm going to guess that your your list of injuries since starting that or making that transition is incredibly minimal in my right. Correct. Yeah, that's what I figured. What about injuries prior to that? Anything major? I've had one injury, which I tore my heart string in 2019, four weeks before I competed at the US, right. The second. No kidding. That's right. Now just how to curiosity. How to do that? RDS. Okay, fair enough. Because the video I saw just about four hours ago was RDS where money, very controlled. Very. Well, and it's funny because then the last segment, one of the questions we had was about, you know, is there too much of a range of motion with certain exercises and they used an example of the hack squat when someone bounces out of the bottom. And my point with that was that anything you do that makes the exercise easier with that rebound. You shouldn't be doing it. You're not getting anything out of it and it opens you up to injury. And I think like what's skips a little into with the control you have on your RDLs. That's money right there. I'm not only avoiding the full range of motion, so if you're able to go all the way down on the hacks while I like that, I like to pause for a second and then explode back up. I would have real sight. It's like he's like Andrew that's cheating in my opinion. Like what he bought before. Exactly. No. And not only is it limiting your injury, but at the same time you're you're blowing up and you're growing. I think a lot of people think yeah it's going to limit injury, but maybe I'm not going to progress as well and that's just not the case. Yeah. I know how strong I am. I know what I'm capable of. So for me, I'm also like the point where it could cause an injury with how strong I really am. So anything for me to make the movement harder as possible using a lighter weight is going to benefit me down the road right to the middle of the way I know I could. Yeah. So what did you tell us because you mentioned about you know you want to bring your legs up to quad sweet from particular what exercises and and what rep ranges what specifically is Jared having you do a little bit differently than you were doing maybe for this Arnold prep. So we did last leg day to make press. She pretty low, but it was people made this degree which I've ever wanted to stand but it was a pretty wide approach right. And it was all the way down. So it was all right. Done. But I know a lot of people say that work more in the area. But I felt that so much on the outer sweep. It was ridiculous. And we did a reps of a year from 12 to 15 for that. And same thing only to the Swiss rock. It was really the same. And after we were done, we actually took the video that I posted and my outer sweep was just full grown. Yeah, that's cool. That's cool. So recently I know you made the move to Vegas. You were training with Kamal over in my 40 and I just barely missed you because I moved down here. I'm in the cargo. Yeah. Yeah. Tell us what it was like to train with Kamal. Kamal was the complete opposite. I thought so. I thought I heard that. Very, very, very, very, very, very, very high volume. It would be like six sets with triple drops set every exercise. Oh, God. Yeah. Did you guys learn the training? Huh? Did you guys merge your training styles or did you refer to the, I just didn't understand the track of the different. Yeah. And listen, it is for him being for 51 year low. It is very tuned out. All right. Did you love with him? All of his app. That's so cool. What we got is an animal. What's amazing. And he's strong too. It's not like he's just moving little light way. We had him on a show not too long ago with Ron and Dusty and he had talked about that too from from his perspective. It sounds like and I think it's good, you know, because as awesome as your training is and how how valuable it is for you right now at at some point in life. The opposite is also valuable. So it probably was good for you to do something different, you know. Because like I'm 28, right? So I don't know everything. I'm all up for trying new shit to see if it works. And that training with the moment was fun. I loved it. It was exciting. It was always something new. But that was way too much. That's something you can do long term. Yeah. No. I would wake up every morning. I feel like I'm back truck. Yeah. I would need like after a return session on a plane to take like two days off. That's crazy. And he said something about he was going to have you over for dinner or something like that. Did that end up happening? Yes. Yeah. That's good. Like all of his traditional foods and stuff. He said they were going to go back to Florida and April to clear out actually my house in Tampa. I haven't gone back. That's like me. I love my stuff up and Vermont. Yeah. I'm like I'm getting it eventually. But he wants to have a man for a year or something along your visit. That's cool. That's cool. How is the environment change, you know, having moved from Florida out to Vegas? Like what are you getting out of this now that's getting you excited? For me, I mean, the weather is better. It's not as humid. Oh yeah. I just like, Reggie, I just think there's always no gems around here. The environment is very, you know, body building, fitness friendly more so Tampa is. But I think, you know, Vegas is more that way. There's way more gems to train out and obviously the food place is down here on the credit for two. Yeah. I'm here. There's a little bit to be desired. That's for you're originally from aren't you originally from West Palm and then you went to Tampa or I'm very happy. Yeah. So I actually miss West Palm. Even if it was more quiet humidity wasn't as severe as it was in Tampa. I don't know. And that was like, that was like the first place I moved to. I don't know my parents are on. So that will always have a special place in my heart. I guess you can say. And of course, it was right by the fireman from your body gym. That's just, this is awesome. The train. Oh yeah. That was going to be my next question. I wondered where you train. I know you had been to busy body a couple of times because I had trained there and someone said you were in there. But you didn't train there. I don't think regularly. I've got this is West Palm out my back here. I'm right down to. But I think I missed you maybe by you. We may have been here at the same time for a few months, but that was probably about it. Yeah, the food leaves a little bit to be desired until you get down closer to Miami and Fort Lauderdale. That's sure. We live like 20 minutes from the stretch. So there's food places. Oh yeah. Vegas has everything. There's nothing Vegas doesn't have except for the Olympia next year. Now you're going to have to get on a plane to fly back out to Florida again. No, that's here. Yeah. That's okay. Yeah. I'll say this. I've been trained in a little bit at Amp Fitness. And my training partner Scott Dennis, he's a classic pro. You might, I don't know if you know who he is. But he said, yeah, you said when he saw when you came into one of the Amp Fitness is one day, I think in Paneal's park or maybe Tyrone. It wouldn't have been weirder if an alien flew down in a flying sauce and walked through there. Every fucking person turned their head and just watched everything he did on every single set. But my question about that is, do you thrive off of environments where people are always eyes on you or do you prefer an environment where you are training with just your training partner or even by yourself like no one else around? I thrive in an environment where the atmosphere is really good. Everybody's just training their assholes and not worried about anyone else. Yeah. Cool. So if you have the choice in a gym, are you going to go for atmosphere? Are you going to go for a place that is well equipped and you'll create your own atmosphere? I see that's, I would probably pick atmosphere over equipment because you could have the best equipment for me the atmosphere is shit. I'm probably not going to come back. Yeah, I'll show you. Hey guys, just a quick advertisement for True Nutrition as a company that I believed in for years. They were the first company that I wanted to ask to sponsor us, but I waited until we had enough views that I knew I could make it work there while. One of the products I've talked about a lot is their hydrolyzed beef collagen. I'm drinking it in my coffee right now. I use this every day. It's one of the few supplements that will rebuild connective tissue. They have some of the best pricing too. If you go to the store, it's way more expensive. I shop around. I look at the shelves and I see. So you can get a much better deal if you shop a true nutrition. Of course, use our code think and let's them know that their advertising dollars are going to something of value. I use this every day. My wife uses it. My mom uses it and now my sister is using it too. So like I said, these are products I believe in. I've used them long before they advertised with us and I highly suggest them to you. If you guys have any questions about any of their products, including their hydrolyzed beef collagen, let me know. I'll be happy to talk to you on social media or wherever else. All right, guys, let's get back to the program. So where has the atmosphere and Vegas for you now? I train at Dragon Zayr Law, I train elevation, sick blood. Those are like the main spots that I train at for the most. I didn't know elevation. I didn't know they were out there. I saw that you were in elevation. I assumed you were down in Miami. I'm like, oh, yeah. I'm down there. Good. Good. Good. That's cool. I also want to ask you change the topics a little bit about your relationship with Matt. He was your coach. He helped you run up through the amateurs. You guys got your pro card together. I was there backstage. Somehow I snuck in backstage and I was there. Well, I did get his. Yes. Yeah, remember? Because I was died in myself and I was pretty tan. And the guy just looked at me and let me walk right through and get his girlfriend got kicked back to the curb. But anyway, I want to know a little bit about your relationship. I know you guys split ways a little bit. We won't go into that if you don't want to about the reason why. But you guys got back together. What's that relationship like? I just think it's really good. I would say it's probably just a strong. If not stronger than what it was before we had that little split there. Once we see each other at Olympia, I think we both knew like, this is what it is now. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Would you say he's kind of a mentor to you and some ways? We always think about it. You know what I'm up? As far as I always believe it's Matt and someone I was gave me advice to me whether it was just life or business or coaching. Like he was always more than just the coach. Gotcha. Gotcha. That's cool. Cool. Hey, I'll take it. I gotta go ahead. Go ahead. I said, I got a question. I'm going to be, hear me out of the way I were this because I think I understand why and I want to ask you if you agree or not. There are always a lot of questions about your gear, your gear. So I'm not going to ask you about it. It's not my business name, but he also has business. But I will say this. Is it fair to say that you don't discuss it because people don't believe you any way? Yes. Is that okay? And I figured as much. And I honestly, I think that's about the best approach that you can take because people are coming at you and guys like you at your level. From all different directions, if you could be 100% lay it all out, put it out and they're just not going to buy it. They're not going to... I always shot myself to be a genetic freak for one. I always found that I was pretty hyper much longer. So yeah, I was younger and I pushed it a little harder. Sure. But now we're on that. If I was to tell people what I do and what they would probably... I'm sure I was being called here. We give a lot of comments because when we've had guys on that are at a high level and they've told us what it is and it's not a lot, people still don't believe it. Another thing is that your shit is very pure and it's properly dose. You don't need a lot. You really don't. But you're hating you right now. Actually, I might be for the genetic component. Yeah. That's also another thing that I want to try as well is push the food really carefully to training as best as I can while barely not doing much and just see how far the body can really go. You know, because that would need traumatic amount of size anymore. I just need certain improvements and keep refining. I don't need to keep pushing and pushing. I feel like a lot of times as kids we all think to ourselves like one day I'm going to be Mr. Olympia. I remember thinking like man, I'm going to fight for that one day. That was an early thought in my parents' basement. Did you have those thoughts as a kid? But at the same time, could you have imagined where you are now? Yeah. I know I'd be here and I'll ask you my first show. What was your early training life? Or asked you that. What was your early training life? I couldn't even tell you. Like, you know, what I mean, like, were you stronger than the other kids? Was there, was there, was there still you have 17 years old then? She didn't have a full five rate? Okay. That was crazy. Okay. That's crazy. Did you play sports at all in high school? I can't remember. I played football. No. I played baseball. You sure about that? You think I was? I played football. I played football in high school because I'm like a sort of loser. So I played football. That's fine. So that first show. Yeah. When I did play football, I was on the 13th, 14th. I was a full back in middle of all that. Yeah, I could see that 100%. So you started telling the story? I was pretty much always a bigger kid even at the other year. So putting on the size, you know, when I started training in 13th, 14th, it was very easy. Get it? Get it? Get it. Shut it. It was not hard poker. So you said 13 or four. Oh, and you know what's gotten? Take it. Take it. I wanted to get back to that show because you started saying before you, you know, at your first show. So what was that like? Yeah. So when I was 17, I started that, right after graduating high school and I graduated high school, I was 235 and I stood on stage at 159 pounds. So I could have beaten Nick Walker at some point in his career. So when you were 17 and you were 30. If you took it. If you took it. But the training. You know, I just, I really at the time I was just in there training. And I didn't really have like any structure. I didn't really know what I was doing that much. I just wanted there to get training. I probably over trained pretty bad. Stop it. And you died at yourself for that show, too? I did up until I was like 60. I decided to get some help and that really just didn't help at all. And actually made it worse. Because in four weeks, in four weeks, I lost 30 pounds. So I was like, oh, so drop. Were you peeled? No, I was skinny. I think I remember seeing those pictures. I'm like, I don't think he was the Nick Walker that was peeled that he brought to these last show. Oh, I was in. Yeah. I was so, you had a coach. You had a coach that successfully got you to lose muscle, which is fairly hard to do on a prep. Maybe you weren't using PEDs, but you had a coach that was successfully able to get you to lose, like, 30 pounds of muscle tissue. More. Who's that? And whoever he is out there today, he always know he was the guy who ruined Nick Walker's first show. Yeah. He said nothing. I stood on stage at 100 92 pounds. Okay. Yeah. And how did you do that one? I won. Hell yeah. Who'd you work with for that one? I'm some local guy that was in town as there was Kenny. He was like the first actual real coach that I had. And he was good. I did. I wanted like two of your shows with him and then we did team hash rules. And I took second by Cody Montgomery that year. That's right. Yeah. If you had to go to somebody, that was a good guy to lose too. He was just too pretty. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like those are complete opposite physics and at the end of the spectrum, right? Cody Montgomery and Nick Walker next to each other. That must have been amazing to see in person. We all know everybody who watches the shows knows that your mom is your biggest fan. Because we had around the show at the the Arnold. I imagine she's been your biggest fan like all the way back since that first contest. Oh my god. No. She ate it by the way. She was always wanted to go. Yeah. We were on the grill. We were on the grill. We were talking stupid. She ate it. She ate it. She ate it. She ate it. She ate it. She ate it. She ate it. She ate it. She was like, this is stupid. You know the fact that I said mom, you know, did you approach me? She had to be like, you know, so I mean, you know, Paul, let's give us chicken and white rice. Chicken up by white rice. What do you want? Wait, wait, let me ask you this. Growing up in your household are your families? Are they eaters? Like did your mom like he cooked like big meals? He was like, we always had family dinners. Or we went on to fucking McDonald's and Taco Bell. You know, we can't agree. Curious. You traded in baseball. You basically playing baseball. She's like, oh, my son's playing baseball play. No, I'm son. You're like, I just want to get here. I don't want to basically be normal anymore. I want to go over here and do this. One of the downs. My mom. I want to get this one more. I want to go to the game. She thought I was kidding. What did she say? What did she say when you're like, I want to wear these little speedo trunks in front of us. Can you say my back for me? It took her. So after my first show because that prep was horrible. Yeah. Mentally I was like the biggest asshole during that prep. I was like you were never doing this shit again. I said one of my pictures. Action. So after I started winning obviously, then she started to follow it more. She started to get invested more. She started to study things differently. And then every show. She would get more and more invested. And now she thinks she's a judge. Now she thinks she knows. Now she thinks, you know, everybody's the best friend. She's told me at the Olympia 2020 that you were going to go. She's like next when I know. What I know he's going to win when he comes out here. Her maybe is 20 20 20 21 one of them I can't remember. She got she Arnold in front of the. She told everybody that if you bet on somebody else, you made a mistake. She said, but man, she's passionate dude. She's so big. You see it. So passionate. She's like, I see these lines in his legs that I've never seen. Like she's got the eye now. You know what I mean? Yeah. She's. And you use a thing. So but one before I go down. You know, we she was the one that you know took the pictures in the infamous face. Yeah. Yeah. That's awesome. And she would have no she would look at him and critique everything. He can only give us. I'm like, you're you're not my coach. I can. I can. That's. Which he point out like, oh, you know, you still got a little fat on your cheeks there. Or lower back. Like that out. If I'm sitting at the pose wrong and you know, I just feel like she's not giving me a phone. Yeah. And then I said, you know, I'm saying, and some of the feedback you give me would be some of the shit she would say. That's funny. That's funny. That's funny. That's funny. It's great. The moms come around after you start winning. That's. And that's cool. I mean, in fairness to your mom, you know, we all know it's a very crazy. It's a very different world. And and to someone who's in it. We know how different it is when if think about your mind, you know, think about your dad and what's seeing you got what what are you doing. Like, this is, they don't understand it. They have no idea about it. It seems like they're not up. So he, he knew a little bit about. Oh, okay. Okay. Okay. But my mom probably, she thought it was weird when he started putting up like picture. Like, pictures of like pass, like fill Heath on your wall and like somebody's other guys probably right. Like, my kid. I'm going to go still eat. She loves shit color. Like she loves to hold out. Yeah. That's great. So you're a follower. Were you seeing me? Yeah. Were you saying that you're your dad lifted to them? Yeah. My dad was, you know, pretty big. He competed my brother as well. You're dead for me. No kidding. Yeah. Man, that was it. Does he been a cool era, too, then? Back. At what point, well, we'll point, did he stop trying to give you advice about body building in general? I'll take after the first year. Yeah. What if you were already bigger than he was? Like, you're good. Yeah. Yeah. So you do know, you got a good relationship with him from the way it sounds. But I'm sure you're clear, too, that you kind of hit the genetic lottery. In the sense that, yeah. And I appreciated earlier when you mentioned that. And it's tough to talk about genetics with someone when we have someone on, you know, like yourself or someone who is high level because I never want to give the impression that I or anybody, well, I can't speak for anybody else. I'll speak for me. That I would think that you are at your level simply because you picked your parents right. Clearly, the work involved in the structure and in the day to day that being consumed 24, 7, but is why you have gotten to where you are. But without that that genetic component, you're doing a podcast trying to get somebody else to come out and talk about how good they are. You know, it's just, it's one of those things. And I appreciate the fact that you recognize that. Of course. I mean, at the end of the day, genetic squeeze of big role and all of this, the only downside to the genetics that gave me was a wide fucking weight. So it's always something right. You can't even switch from one of them. It's not both of them. So you have to figure out who it is to just be like, why'd you do that? I got my mom's arrow shoulders. I'm like, it could have got my dad's with that. That's it's tough. What else we got to Andrew? Well, I'm just looking to see if any of these questions are good enough to ask, you know, I'm just gluing the how much, you know, what is this like, what does this like go look like for this, you wouldn't believe it if you told you for one thing. Yeah. Well, while you're looking, I want to throw a question about the relationship you touched on it earlier. And I wonder, obviously your girlfriend's a, I'm sure a huge support. But how, let me ask you this, what's the difference being in a serious relationship? And you chasing this dream versus prior to are there. I don't want to say obstacles, but for lack of a better word, are there things that now that you have to deal with that you didn't have to deal with before? Like what we mean. And like something simply say time, like does she understand the amount of time that goes into everything you have to do and not being the priority and things like that? And I would imagine that's the case. Just to drug it alone, I thought was, well, best scenario for me, you know, because I didn't, I do things the way I want. But how did her involved for my project for the Lempia having her involved, you know, for my project for the honor was probably the best thing that could have happened to me mentally? That's gone. She was very supportive, you know, every morning we drove to the drug desire. She took the pictures for me. We did our cardio together. She was very much on my structure, the entire time. And that's something I will forever be grateful for. And the reason I asked that and you already know this, how incredibly important that to me because of relationships sometimes. Can you hear that? Can you can tell you, can you can kill your dream and it can get in the way and it can be a problem. Yeah. Yeah. Sure. Chase Iron wants to know does she prep any of your meals for you? No, no, I do all of them. Oh, good for you. Wow. I've always felt like I've wanted to do that. I haven't wanted to rely. Is that what it is, Nick? Like I haven't wanted to put that on to people. It's my thing. Yeah. I'm in prep. I like to. I weigh every single amount of. You know, that's not saying I don't trust her to do it. Sure. She's doing it. Yeah. I like to see it. I like to do it. You know, that's it. Yeah. Well, you can speak for yourself because I don't trust my wife, my wife will be pissed at me and put a bunch of duck fat in there. Be like, yeah, fat mother fuckers in a get out of the stage and have blutes like his dad. You know. No. Yeah. I want to know what you think about this one. So this, I don't even know what this person's name is, but and I hate questions like this because I think, well, I'll ask the question. Would you chase the judges flow towards the new aesthetic criteria? Now, let me let you answer first because I got something to say about this too. So here's the thing. I personally, it's hard to tell. Right. Could you have someone like, how did you follow me on the love yet? Who in my personal opinion is not the, you know, he's got a aesthetic, but I'm the most aesthetic guy here. But then you had someone like Samson when the, when the arm. So it's more on the lines like what direction are they going. Right. How to do film that they are transitioning to the more taller aesthetic look. That being said, I'm not necessarily trying to play that game, but if I can play my own game. Yeah. So I'm through my aesthetic more and more. I will. Yeah. Well, only thing I was going to add to that is that the judges don't get in a circle before the Olympia or the Arnold or any pro show and say, okay guys, we're going for the aesthetic guy or we're going for the mass monster free. Get all caught. When you come out, body building, we talk about this for body building is about judging who catches your eye more like who is just on that day, who has the, the combination of fullness conditioning. If you want to call it aesthetics, everything just imbalance. If it's not like they go into it with this simple criteria for going for the aesthetic guy, which what does that really mean does it mean your taller link your guy like myself or or we're just going for the mass monster like a free like Nick here, you know, I just hate questions like this obviously. It's the best that your own game. Yes. Who's the best at their own game? Okay. And that's what so that's what so I think difficult or so subjective about the stuff that's not going to be a good thing. About the sport, you know what I mean, but you can see it like I remember I remember seeing Bonic in the 2020 Arnold the Arnold that almost didn't happen. And like just that day it's like just what he had it was like a day that he really shine. He was his best at that moment, you know, he just did his thing the best. I think you're nailing it man. It was it's always a mistake to chase like something else, right? I know my shreds are so I'm always going to play to that advantage. But again, like I said, I can also want doing that and prove other aspects. Yeah. Well, otherwise it's a giant guessing game too because you would be essentially preparing you and everybody else preparing for a show that you're you're essentially just guessing. Yeah, the judges are looking for and you could get it right. As far as, okay, this is what they're looking for. This is what I'm going to go and you nail it and that's not what they're looking for. So from the outside looking in and I say the outside looking in because I'm not at your level, I would think that the approach would be healthier to go with you know I'm bringing this package. This is what I'm good with and I'm going to bring the best packages that I can and let the chips fall where they may it just is what it is. Knowing that that decision is essentially out of your control and your controlling what you can control by providing and bringing the best package you can. The main thing is obviously like you said, controlling where you think control control the best way possible and also here, moving show show. I mean at the end of the day, that's just a little bit of a small and like you said, or were they for what else can you do? You can't get taller, right? Yeah, okay, they're going taller. What the fuck do I do with that? I can't get any taller. We got a good one in the live stream from Nate Speer. He says, yeah, he's with us. He says what wind felt the best and why. Or even if it wasn't a wind, even if it wasn't when what appearance. Yeah, I feel like you're going to say it was a wind because like you're like I'm a loser. You said that from the start, but if there was a show in particular that wasn't a wind. The show that meant the most as far as I'm when was probably the New York. Because that was it's somewhat because you can't guess what you say like the Chicago Crow is my birthday view, whatever. But to me, the New York Crow was more so than debut because I took it off season. We did a full product for it and that was like, okay, this is where it's at. And it was in my backyard where exactly I'm from technically, leaving it was in Tampa. But I had everyone at that show as well that I might retire. Family was there when I was with four and five. They were all there. It was in Tampa. So everyone literally everyone was there. So and that was probably. Undo unexpected because of how loud the audience was when I came out. Like I didn't expect any. Bro, I put my routine. I literally hit six poses. No routine, six poses. And every pose, everyone went fucking crazy. And it was like a cool. Ever. I want to talk about that actually because you are definitely a fan favorite. Like when you come out, whether it's a limpio, the Arnold, like because I've been in both audiences, you know, for in 2021 and her both audiences go frigging nuts when the me hit the stage. Do you feed off that? I think you can see it. I see. But tell us about it. There's there's no greater feeling going you walk out. I'll say whether you're confident or not, right? There's no greater feeling going on stage. And before you move the hit of pose, everyone just fucking goes crazy. If you don't feed off that, you have a fucking wild way. When you hear it, it's it's just I never get so I love it no matter what. Yeah, that's cool. I remember at the Arnold, I think what was your most muscular, where you just like stick your tongue out, you're like, yeah, I'm nasty. I'm huge. I'm shredded. I'm jacked. Like the people are here to see me. Like I thought that was like your stamp of saying, I'm not only a good pro. I'm a contender now for a top spot at the Olympia every single year for the next 10 years. Did you feel that in that moment? Yeah, it's it's it's it's it almost came from me being younger and getting a little bit of negativity. I always was so no, I would not want to be a pro. And then what happens, that would be a good pro. And then when we can't ease and pros, like I, you know, won't ever be a good one of them and now. So it's it's it's it's never about proving people wrong, but when you are able to shut people up, it's a very good feeling. I would add that you were able to shut them up very quickly over like a one and a half year period. Well, I'm glad that my average week to a year was as long as it was because you know, I took almost 10 years to 10 pro. But what I did, I was ready to be a pro. That's a good point. And then it took me very fast to rise to the top. People don't know. They think this success was overnight. People don't know how long you really took me to get that pro. And it took fucking almost 10 years. That's great. I'm not sure if you'll have an answer for this one because I imagine where you're at. But this is just my guess. If I were you're you're at my brain is just focused on body building and being the best I can be right now. But Eric says does Nick have any goals for after his body building career? Are you even thinking about that? Yeah, yeah, we're, we're, yeah, we're. We're very, very long journey here. Sean, you know, businesses and investing right out. No kidding. Like, can you tell us a little bit about that? Like, what are you, what are you interested in? Where do you see yourself? You know, after the, but what's that's probably? Okay. Well, you all have to find out very soon. So sooner than retiring, you're saying, huh? Yeah, well, it's not that this is going to happen, but, you know, any wake up one morning just be like, you know, I don't want to pregnant. Yeah. And if that day was to ever come sooner than later, I would want to come when I'm already taking off in other places. Yeah. That's a great answer. So I think there are sometimes people who have to continue because they have themselves in financial positions and everything else. Yeah. Yeah. They continue on and they're forced to stay in something that they were once passionate about, but that passion has since faded and they find themselves stuck in it. I can't imagine being in a worse place or worse position than having to do something so demanding. Yeah. Let me ask you this way then. How about this? So like hypothetically speaking, and this is like nothing to do with anything you're doing right now behind the scenes with business. But like, say 10 years down the road, where do you see yourself then? Mary, children, traveling the world and being jacked. I got a different type of right now. I'm going to give you one. In 10 years, I'm hoping to have four on a plastic titles and five on a few titles. Okay. I like that. Skip you got your, oh, you got your question. Are we on the same page or what? Look at that. I already did you look at that. This is our dynamic. We're on the same page no matter what. I always have quick fire questions. Okay. It's for anybody that we have on interviewing. I have to be fair and I have to say you can pass. Okay. Because I don't, you know, we don't. I say you can pass like, you know, if I ask your question, you're like, yeah, I don't like that. You can just say, you just say that's cool. And because, you know, you and I don't go back longer than say 45 minutes. Could be something in here because I am who I am that you know, you want to pass on. But I'm going to throw a match. And I, it's kind of just the first thing that comes off your head. I mean, you know, if you want to think about it, but you're just going to kind of throw a match quickly. Number one, do you alternate arms when you brush your teeth so that one arm doesn't get bigger than the other? No, I've heard about it. I'll look for that on stage guys. Look for that on stage. Yeah. No. Number two, do all plates have to be in the same direction? No, I don't care. Okay. Oh, there's no, you don't have a no CD bone in you. Okay. Fair enough. All right. Then I'm going to skip over the the other question because it was related. Do you know what space invaders is? I don't. I didn't think so because you're young. I'm old then because I was. Yeah, I was given away. I was given away my age. It was an old video game. Best movie ever made. Ooh. Remember the title. The nice. All right. I think that was John. That was never to. This one's kind of selfish because it has more to do with me. But I can do that because, you know, I make up the questions. So best Jim on the east side of the state from West Palm down to Miami, including Miami, of course. Ooh. I've been to many of you on this. So I'll get revived. Okay. Fair enough. If you have to pick only one song for every top set for the rest of your life, what is it? I'm going to go like, well, boom. That's mine. That's all. See we are tight. We are with you. No one. I have run that song over a hundred thousand times. All right. That's great song. Yeah. No kidding. Okay. What do you suck at that you wish you were really good at? Play the drums. Did you ever play? No. But I can't even do that. Okay. Next question. Does your girlfriend secretly like old-tanned guys? I'm just asking for a friend. I don't think so. Okay. Well, you didn't pass, so fair enough. Okay. Which song will you sing out loud in the car every time it comes on? Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Okay. And you get it, don't let her go too far because I got another question here in just a minute. Don't let her go too far but I have to get her in here. You have to answer it first but then sure does. Okay. Yeah, in sink, that'd be yeah. If you weren't a pro body builder which sport would you want to be a pro in if you have the talent? Uh, boxing. Nice. Okay, where's your girlfriend now? You have to answer this first celebrity that your girlfriend wants to crazy. Oh shit. Just in the moment. No! She said no? The rock. Oh, alright. There you go. Alright. Now this is the last one. Can you put up that picture? Scatter no. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, I got it right here. You know that is? No, I don't. That's fine. That's fine. You don't know who that is? That's Mike Madarazzo. So Mike last question for you, sir. Any chance that your mom ever dated Mike Madarazzo 28 years ago? Thank you. I struggled with this one. I'm like, I don't know him. I don't know what the similarities to me. He's from my era. So. You give that. We'll give that one a pass. That's good. This is good. Thank you. You're a good sport. I appreciate you, Nick. Yeah, we appreciate you taking all the time and hanging out with us, man. This is awesome. Yeah, this is always fun. So anything you want to say to everybody before we, before we wrap this thing up, I feel like you already said a lot. No, I'm good. Mom, this is fun. So I got a question. I got one more question. Who's going to win the 2023 Mr. Olympia? Me. I don't, I don't think any of us are disagreeing on that one. Well, I look forward to seeing it happen. Guys, we appreciate everybody tuning in. Check out our sponsors, true nutrition.com. Use our code, think, supplement source.ca for our Canadians. And of course, follow Nick. You're already following Nick. So I don't really need to tell you that. That said, I'll have your YouTube in there. Of course, we'll have your Instagram and everything else. So if you guys aren't following anything that Nick's doing, you can go check them out there. So for another episode of Blitz What and Gear Guys, with Nick Walker, we'll see you soon. Thanks, guys. Thank you.

Those are knee raps either. Those are just like their strong sleeves like they're not wraps Yeah, the strong sleeves are pretty snug But yeah, but it ain't a wrap inside and closer to the same he is so Just the muscle is so dense and I know the back has changed a little bit But I mean everything else he looks like he's a fresh prop all this is I remember this Jesus dude. Oh, yeah, that's it. Is that the UK that's a British ground pre done when you're Regiment alone out there, but he that is so impressed with those legs Jesus How would he do today? Imagine him in like the you know we just saw the 2024 Yeah, imagine that like how would this answer do that Hey everybody welcome to it's just body building reacts We're back with another reaction I know you guys love these every time I talk to a listener they go when you do it another react and I'm like When we think about it. We don't care about your show. Just not three actions. Yeah, you know Take a bunch of the show So here we are Reacting we got some three items today. I believe we're gonna look at yeah Remember to like share subscribe comment and Bring the bell Yes, and remember I am mutant.com get your ice a surge get your all in and everyone should get on the gear Quit fighting it. You're gonna wind up on the gear eventually everyone knows Everyone You're already you are you know what nobody cares that you're not Because yeah, you're up here Yeah, yes So definitely and dusty and big wrong are your coats. Okay What it got first what are we looking at first Scott we had three things in the queue. I think should we go to that big squat for shouldn't we? That was a good one so yeah, let me just let me do it to be honest. This will probably be the first time I saw it Ron and Dusty send stuff and I just say oh, that was very nice guys You just keep playing on the internet. I got to get back to work. I'm working over here. Yeah, one of us has to work. That shows To us not so much. No, it's is pretty crazy. I only saw it in passing so yeah, let me bring this up here Me just second here. So this is you know I got to meet this guy at the Arnold for like five seconds We were wrapping up at the end of one of the days and Kyle Curvey He came just happened to be by the booth I shook his hand. I'm like oh man your huge I talked him for like 10 seconds I would have loved to have chatted with him for a lot longer I wish I would have got to photo with him but we just had to quick little hails ago on good to meet you blah blah blah And then I see this video come through my feed and he just does some crazy shit his I have to be pro 308 world record raw world record world strongest body builder his huge And he came came through my feed the other day. Let's just watch him squat. All right Kyle Curvey No music looks like the gyms of that gym. Yeah, there's not even a kid you see a kid with a mop. Oh, that was all the way down to Three now this is eight plates Bull Angry at these plates right now. Yeah, I Love hearing the metal yeah, there's a lot seven but seven plates Seven plates yeah look at those Very good No spotter seven plates in ten reps knows yeah back and out of a like and you know those racks It's not not a bodybuilder rack where you just crash down if everything goes wrong. Yeah. Yes That's crazy Yeah, I know he's very strong He does a lot of squatting but this this power with seven plates Yeah, 75 or 10 with no one around I wonder what he gets up to like if he's just also Cranking these out with like intensity I wonder if he's gonna want to go for like just a triple or something Those aren't knee wraps either those are just like their strong sleeves, but they're not wraps. Yeah, like the strong sleeves are pretty snug But yeah, but it ain't a rapid sign in close to the same Yeah, those are a man as yeah, that was a wrong He's at least as tall as me That's a long way down to he's a big guy. I just sent you another one. Let's look at this one. All right Oh, I don't know I'm ready. I love it. Yeah, no, no Scott Scott's a pro. You could we got this we got this Boom 800 pounds on a buffalo bar All right That's a lot of this okay eight hundred pounds look at the racks see the racks drop in Yeah, I like that look at that 800 pounds Wow There's a lot of no around yeah Like just because he's a crazy Crazy numbers like where does that where does that go like I Mean You know you got world world level power lifters you got strong men doing crazy squads like that yeah, I mean I mean he let's say bodybuilder. I mean he is a bodybuilder like he is a bodybuilder. Yeah, you know So that's why it's so mind boggling to me. I got to see his pictures. I'm gonna I need to go stock his Instagram here you guys can you guys can join me Cree many here. Yeah, yeah Yeah, I want to see what his physique looks like so oh come back Completed so now one of what he did there. Yeah, what did you do to hurt himself? Oh, yeah, okay, so it's never give up If you love everything no matter what okay a year and a half ago I broke my leg God not even able to walk determined to come back to cement myself is one of the strongest people in the world Oh, you done that wow That is the actual we wild he's strong as fuck like that's just You know there's I mean you can train for strength But then there's his certain people like yeah, yeah, you can't train to be like that That's just a mutant of every in every way. Yeah, I got questions. I got questions How strong was he in high school like I got questions and okay? No based on his base high school wasn't that long ago He looks like there is a falling said there there is a James in the middle of one of the Yeah idea So like you know he's leaning back a bit but he's taller than James by several inches. Yeah, he's big dude But that's but yeah, it is Let's look at a see if we could see any of the physiques. I just want to show like you know show some respect for The crazy shit going down in the gym There's some wheels that can lift some serious weight and I imagine this is after he broke his leg He's got those legs back, you know, yeah, yeah, man There's yeah, there's a little freak you know, this is a little more Physique stuff lower. Yeah, go lower. All right Well, I saw a video where I had no shirt on you look pretty lean over here This one I know little lower little lower. Okay, let's say you look kind of off season you there like he's gonna He's full blown. He's gonna lift some serious weights, you know Okay, I see we're getting we're getting back it like going back into the shreds here now There's a couple more coming all right You're going to be going okay, we're getting three plate lunges on the turf and stuff there is like a few That's you know what I mean, yeah, you know like he's got some muscle on a big guy Yeah, yeah, we're gonna try way over 300 pounds There's side chest Since I chest go up a couple What was that oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah Dude yeah, yeah, so I mean, you know looks like a 500 pound bencher. Yeah, yeah Anyways, just wanted to give that dude some props because He seemed like a real nice guy when I met him and I see a shit and it's just kind of like oh god You know, I like the stuff where as many things as we've seen you still go oh Damn yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm I'm more impressed Scott with with a 675 for 10 and an 800 for one yeah, like that's just something obscene because even when you watch it back like the eighth rep was tough and he was like I got two more Right yeah grinding out the grinding the grinding with no spotter Yeah, I don't know if there's anyone's alive in the town based on that video Is that your home gym it's enormous why are you there alone? Yeah, yeah If you're the only guy in the world do you still squat seven plates? Do you still bother? Apparently he does yeah Yeah, yeah, occasionally you 800 okay Yeah, I got something I wanted to bring to the table here so I told you guys I was really impressed by Barnett and I thought he almost looked as good as he did at the Arnold will you sent us over on our our chat This comparison picture of Heim at the 2018 Arnold Classic to the 2025 to Trich pro and I'm like oh He might be better here He's what I'm saying Look at the glutes yeah He means so Just the muscle is so dense and And like and I know the back has changed a little bit, but I mean everything else he looks like he's a fresh pro Yeah, like yeah everything's awesome often Rounded just grand it hard Look at that. She wasn't another one. He's 42 Yeah He's 42 and so when we were I didn't tell you guys this on the regular program I mentioned it to Ian at the show So he he when he when he won and he got to take the mic for a minute He was like hey guys, you know it's like really good to be back He said you know I took some time away from bodybuilding. It's all about family and he really did a great job Like thanking his family. He's like I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for my wife watching our kids He's like I've got a 15 year old at home and He's like I've got a 15 year old at home and a seven year old at home and a three year old at home and A six month old at home of Victorian. I looked at each other and we're like he's not firing blanks at this size Nobody is Yeah, so that's the thing man. He's a genetic phenom. You know what I'm saying not only is he jacked, but he's He's in pregnant as a wife over and over again. Yeah, what we were on here Yeah, he's got the runny genetics Do that He looks good here man. It was cool to see him. I mean, I'm excited to see what he's gonna do next for three dude that did a cycle and became sterile There's an Olympia level dude this to guy 10 10 illegitimate kids the family five It is Yeah What it is For for genetics and drugs right you know, yes, it's like some guys take drugs and they become really good other people not so much Yeah, hey Victoria's told me like some of the most elite women that she has worked with like they don't lose their periods They're like they're still they're still at it Right, they do they're just like yeah, you know You know, maybe I lost it for a month that we're going into the show and then after that And you should have it the month of the oh yeah, and then I got pregnant three months later, you know Yeah, well hey remember lendemary yeah when she law I believe it was her last Olympia where she didn't win And then she found out after the Olympia that she was pregnant was that lendemary was it You know that yeah, I think it was I think it was I think it was I think it was Lenda it might have been another top woman pro but that was like a thing and I because I knew the person who who was helping her okay, she's like yeah, she didn't quite get in condition and then after the show It's not as she's pregnant She's Kids already fucking jam yeah, yeah, it's already cost some money. Yeah, right That's been there All right, so I can't remember which woman that was but My like that you'd named one so that we can get torn apart when you're wrong So that's always good. Yeah, it's okay. I'll figure it out We don't lead with not knowing we lead with a name and then say but it could be wrong. Yeah What's how it's done? That's how it's done Lenda is somewhere reacting to our idiocy This you could do a reaction video to this Yeah, yeah, never know. That was never know So we've got something else special from Instagram for you guys Because I don't know about you guys. I can't get enough of NASA Now I don't think that this is an actual like truly official NASA page But I think it's yeah, I think it's a fan page but it has 95,000 followers on it And it's got a lot of stuff so I thought like man, let's just see what NASA is all about here because he never failed. I'm not you don't I mean Oh, I love NASA so much I Can't hear anything You can you get it louder? I don't know if we can play the music so I'll just turn that off here. You got a little Nasser motivation video. See when blow that up. Oh, we can't hear oh See talking more Yeah, it's just music. I don't hear anything. Yeah, because there's nothing to hear. There's just there. Yeah, there's like background music too And just showing him oh Oh, he's doing behind the neck Crushing shit. Yeah, yeah, this is before we worried about Repson reserve. I'm pretty sure yeah, or the perfect form of hitting your muscle The I will say that seeing him alone does not do justice to how massive he was I can get you stand Well is when you're like oh Okay Oh, I miss the selection of trained You missed what the workbook weren't the gym Well, yeah Nasty That's really nice. So that was a great That's a fan page you're on yeah, well, that's when he went Arnold. Yeah In versus Dorian. Yeah The waistline there. Yeah, yeah, he was awesome man. He was incredible I used to just love listening to him talking his videos because it was so like It was just it was funny because of how absolute he would talk about things Yeah Like I With him oh, yeah, you know, we were he's the best I don't know what talk about No, it's a stupid one. I'll ask me these stupid questions. Yeah, I do not so stupid question George Yeah, amazing This is great. This is great footage. They put together here So it's like just some fan video. Yeah, yeah, I think so. There's more That's right. It's talking about the lot. Yeah, yeah, and that you that he's a pie up post workout Yeah These are the best Easily one of my favorites back in the day yeah He's incredible. I see what else is page it's more and one whoever anyone who ever got to talk to nasser You know The way he would look at you through the glasses. Oh, we talk great did that show with him Mealosh and we're where where is this one? I want that right there No, down okay Not that one. I don't care about that One oh my god, that's me. Oh wait. That's me, los Yes, I don't even recognize him. I swear to God. I feel like that's what I've got in his head He's got some rasta breeds in those bears that matter he's a pass Those are Serb Deathfly has nothing we'd I think he's like holding it right there that's a ball in the sand Yeah, that's funny That's amazing Amazing oh I like this one. I'm here. It's a classic outfit right there. You know what I'm saying? That's a real NASA That was pre-judging. That's yeah, he's got the leather he's got the brown leather belt bag Which was kind of like the dread that's like the dress set belt bag. That's going out. Okay The nice brown leather one You got the tall socks But push down tall socks, but push down we haven't like we're getting back to the tall socks But we haven't gotten to the push them down thing yet. You know, yeah, right? I'll be the next stage Yeah, who's this over here? Look at that. Who's this guy? You got your NASA head on and everything You had the same looks run. He's where the same pack Oh, yeah, sees it same pack on yeah, that was that gold's gym I put that on my page and I this page much must have reshared it. Okay, you comment him right there. I can see it Oh, yeah, that's an after the 2020 at gold's gym. No, no 2000 2000. Oh 2000. Yeah, that makes more sense Yeah, she's sick. Wait a minute But doesn't math out no so I'm 20 I'm 24 there. I'm 24 there. Wow. So Joll 25 maybe yeah, I was getting ready for show But I had a friend who gave me that hat because he was friends with NASA yeah And so he gave me that hat and I had it for a while and I never wore it because it was yellow And I don't know where yellow hats, but I just had it and then when I found out NASA was gonna be at the gym I wore it to the gym that day and then I had him sign it nice that's almost and when he saw it he was like Oh, where did you get that hat? I told him who gave it to me and he was like oh, okay, he gave him like multiple hats. He's like oh, okay So it's kind of funny because like he's like I didn't make that many of those. I know who has them. No kidding. Oh, yeah Yeah, it's cool. So it's awesome. Good times. I like the You got the towel on your shoulders look to right there. That's a good. Yeah, the old gold's gym towel. Yeah, that's good one. Yeah What's this NASA in a fish? NASA got a fish here. Good old days. You got a bear NASA got a fish I get all of my food from the sea This is my meal It's my life every day. This look here now. So good. Wow. Yeah, damn suspenders on the gym shorts with the gloves You obviously admit mid workout Nothing makes it so you can wear that to the gym because he's covered, you know, yeah Yeah, he's a good to have no net to rule for no net rule. Yeah, the 90s even the freezing Yep, 2020 yeah The gloves man Damn Damn and then he always had the like the look at him in a suit was just something else Yeah, you know I'm sure the whip. Yeah, I train very hard for this competition and I be I really big and full and We see who is the the Olympia. Yeah, I feel like I can be Marcus's flat top in that picture Oh, yeah, you can't it's got to be Marcus. There's no it's not Marcus Let's see only person that could be that's possible. Yep. Yeah, that is quite a sick Is it great pay it? Just go see yeah, this is best the interview right there Yeah, with always where is it? Oh, is the interview? Oh, yes, this is the best got the volume up here. Turn up Oh, they have it He said he's who you look up in the sport. He's like I don't admire anyone. Yeah, they cut it they clipped it out for this Oh, no way. Yeah That look right there. He looks like a cartoon character of a mob movie or so or you know mob cartoon He'd be great in a mob movie. Oh, yeah, oh, yeah fantastic See what else we got here. You know, he need a good bathroom fight with him versus a main character Oh, look at here he is with Dave Oh, man I Was at the black fan he always had the fan you pack you kept the drugs close. I mean here the wall it that's a mirror No, no, I saw the mustache in the thumbnail. He don't have a sand. I was like oh, that's yeah I've got to be some ear Very wrong sometimes Very proud of that mustache still though nice workshop whoever you are yeah Well, there's him in Chad look at him in Chad. Oh, yeah. Oh, oh, that's amazing The chad of the fan he packs on yeah, oh wow that's like god in 1998 96 97 yeah 98 round there. That's a good one that's believable Yeah, we need more horrific bodybuilding fashion again We're gonna stop doing what the rest of the world does they're working on it. I'm telling you every time I've had any The younger guys come over to train with me. They're all wearing pants like they're wearing nearly pyjama pants to train in so we're on the right Guys yeah Or super short shorts. Yeah, one of the two One of the two Yeah, you would know the thing It is one of my favorite fashion one of my favorite fashion things just because it's kind of like oh We're going out of our way to do that because I you know I'm I'm older I've seen all whole bunch of fashion stuff that we just went out of our way to do yeah, but it's the the girls wearing the tights With the oversized shirt, but then they tuck the back of the shirt into their bra Okay, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, and I'm like I get it I understand but we appreciate it looks like yeah, but to me it look like your shirt Accidentally got caught under your bra and you haven't noticed yet. Oh, yeah I mean like someone accidentally has toilet papers stuck in their pants Like yeah, I just want to go up and pull it out and let it fall down Say you got you girl like yeah, but of course I just leave them alone because I don't want to we you know Yeah, be really weird if you did you know you don't why are you talking to me touch the members yeah, I don't touch the members Yeah, don't touch the members Ron Do you guys remember this? I was telling me yeah You guys remember the roll you were just messing up roll the sleeves up thing. Oh, look It was absolutely yeah It was good oversized with the roll. Yeah, these are great. This is great This guy's gonna get a bunch of followers. That's a great page already has more followers than our channel does So maybe he should share our stuff. You know what I'm saying? He's a yeah Yeah, look at that. Who's this over here? I'm a Paul him and Paul. Let's get shot Oh, that's that's definitely from an NPC catalog. Oh, it's looks like it it It definitely is yeah, you know like a photo shoot. They're doing an NPC photo shoot. Yeah, you can see the grain it was like a picture of the magazine itself I think yeah, yes Fantastic got some classic. He's a fantastic Yeah, this one his pictures have never seen Yeah, Ronnie, but him and Ronnie Would that be a nice Crazy Oh, he's shredded glutes Got any good We need a denim shirt. Oh, no, what I thought I'd do and I thought about you know I think the only guy that we're a denim shirt would be Evan I think Evan could definitely do it. I'm sure I feel like if he hasn't even sent Ronnie Yeah, he might he probably has a denim shirt. I think a debit Evan has a denim shirt in his closet You put it on before you forgotten your John deer, you know, I'm in You know some guys can pull it denim shirt. Some guys can throw a denim shirt on and you see them in it and you're like I believe you Yeah, you don't say anything. We're fine. You want to denim shirt on? We would give you crap for the whole hour. You know that right Right, you're like you don't know how to fix a carburetor Yeah, you can't hang anything on a wall. You can't find a wall stud You can't do a knock on any kind or even even while hey pair it paired with the gloves You've got a landscaper Yeah Right, which is put the gloves on that you got you got a guy running a landscaping company. He's an entrepreneur at that point Yeah, you know You look mad and I'm sure the crash out. Yeah Just freaking out cold. I never looked like that during naps Yeah I still think from the front he was Unbeatable of that oh yeah, well that that that pose Nobody be some of that pose on that day. That's crazy Yeah, that's where he's built He's never been in this show. All the years yeah You know the ridiculous arms on him and everything. Yeah Oh, he was a So when did he first first turn pro like 93 94. I think he turned pro Okay, and then his last good show. I think was like 2,000 Around there was kind of when he kind of was like the end of his end of his good running So he went hard man. He was only pro for like seven years really six seven years Seven years like that freaking dude, you know like that's oh that's a lot of freaking muscle right there Oh, man and he is to He was one of those guys like he was almost always ran her pounds and yeah Like you can three weeks out from his show and he'd almost be three in her pounds and you'd be like Don't you have to get your weight down? He's like I've not of water on me. I'll just pull just pull the water Yeah, like he was one of those guys like really you know that's how he did things and he stayed heavy He never got light You know how about that throwback shot right there Scott right there which one yeah Oh, that one right no no the kid Yeah, wow 85 that's like the Nick Walker you're like the Nick Walker set up. Yes. Yeah. It really is This is where you know it's in you like all the things are there, but you just still can't believe it He got that big he loved the same style of glasses back then too You know what's that? Yeah, it's like the exact same slow Same glasses. Yeah, they just look smart because we got bigger. I mean he looked great here too You know not quite as big this is crazy. Yeah, that's really beautiful. That's earlier when he yeah, it's beautiful physique Yeah, but would we remember him today? You know what I mean if that's you know the buddy became I'll remember the massive NASA Remember the guy it looked like this Right Doing that and of course we remember this this is NASA Yes, we would NASA is this might be one of the first things I showed you it might look like this is possible that depends on the day. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's When your arms look big doing extensions yeah This guy's got some great channel here great great Instagram Yeah, ages knots Well, we got there we got the shirt back with the weed with Joe With that no the damn shirt. Yeah, yeah Well, it can also be a dress shirt Yeah, lots of sleeveless one. That's a sleeveless one. That's a casual denim. Oh, yeah, the short sleeve. Yeah, yeah Were there friends you could ton it down for that meeting Where that to like a flick where that to like a football game or something like that you ton it down. Yeah, yeah, oh Holy buff These are bananas. I'm not gonna go scroll this page after this man Oh, oh size oh When with this bin you guys when do you think this is? Ah, that's probably one of those grown pre-shows You know if you look at the funny background Yeah, probably like you know, they used to do like a dozen shows after the Olympia and a Europe and they just like compete every night for like two weeks Yeah, it was awesome just because they are Yeah, you never know who's gonna win because everyone could just be like completely off randomly because If you like the show went a show went a yeah, they do like the Belgian Grand Prix on a Monday night Yeah, they do like the like the Spanish Grand Prix on like a Wednesday night right? You're like Jesus like so You know, they're all just trying to look good for every single night. It's just the craziest schedule and that's what La Veroni He excelled at right? Yeah, because he kind of looked great all the time so he was You know The guys that had to like pull a lot of water for his show is harder for them because they didn't know what like what are you doing? Yeah, oh yeah, the motorcycle era Who's the other dude? Is that art art out would no could it be no it's that it's a King calling who's on the other bike? He did do shoots with kings or could you but it doesn't look at his face a caption say it just says rare photo of Nestle on a bike Oh, yeah, I wonder who that other guy is yeah flip flops. They were definitely not actually Oh, yeah, you don't ride motorists and flip flops do you dusty No, no, what about crops? Yeah, there's a steak we do you have put you have a lot of you got to put in speed mode right sport Yeah, yeah Oh, this is I remember this Oh Jesus dude. Oh, yeah, that's that is that the UK that's a British Grand Prix that one year We're German alone out there. You're gonna dry Yeah, that's been a lot oh he's really good there. He really is Does it safe this is a German Grand Prix? I can't look because I have it blowing up right now. Oh, yeah, yeah I just that background I I can't remember I think it's uh German ground that is so impressive with those legs Jesus Yeah, dude he was such What was blown out how would he do today? Imagine him in like the you know we just saw the 2024 Imagine that like how would this NASA do then? Well, I think what was awesome. I mean his waist doesn't seem like super blowing out. You know like some of the guys You're like oh, you know back in the 2000s waist for blood like his waist looks tight to me. So it doesn't have that knock on him No, he had a couple years there where I mean the clinton that he had clean lions on him and deep slices everywhere and And no later on like the last couple years that delts and arms kind of melded together in a weird kind of way Like they just got less Jimmy less heavily. Yeah, they were Jimmy you know if I was he was pushing it But I mean this version of him looks crazy so good, you know he'd be he'd be in the mix. Yeah Oh, yeah, I think that's what that's probably is good. Just we're gonna get today. I think yeah, no, I mean it was good That was good. Those were awesome. So yeah, it's uh I like clicking it Instagram stuff everyone else lives their life on Instagram So you know if we react to something that you like let us know if we react to something you you're glad you saw Let us know if you think there's something that we need to look at send it to us. Yeah, you know Let us know what you like better tune if we pick one video and just watch whole thing or if we do a few like you know Get the get the feedback. Yeah, you guys tell us you know what I'm firing up to do? What's that? When they're fucking squat so heavy today I'm gonna get a jam. I'm just gonna squat so heavy I'm just gonna 350 15 15 for six maybe really really You know maybe maybe one I'm gonna tell my spotter to stand I'm still tell Brandon to stand like 10 feet behind me So I feel like I'm all on my own like out of the frame out of the camera frame, you know Let me run in be ready No worry. I'll get proof Yeah Leave it you will believe it Okay, see remember Like share subscribe comment and ring the bell Yes, Scott when are we doing a last five minute crew t-shirt? That's a really good question in fact. We had a listener ask us we should get on that after I finish my taxes about that Perfect yes, and if somebody out there wants to design a last five minute crew Shirt and send it to us for free. That's we wouldn't we wouldn't be hurt by that Yeah, wouldn't be hurt. Okay, you would know you didn't know an ass would Yes, okay, thanks everybody Haven't excellent Monday Well, I guess it's Wednesday Saturday or so I can't tell you when this one's coming out. Yeah, we don't know have a great day have a great day Probably gonna sit on this episode for two months until we're out of something and then you release it anyways Something for the job of a one Okay, thanks guys good to see you again and uh Remember it's just bodybuilding reacts you

I'm in my element now. I'm back where I belong. I'm alone, but I'm not alone. Zero distractions to my name. I'm focused. Success for me outside of winning obviously would just be being just the best person I can be for the people around me and not being so shut it off. Not being a tech, you know? Like that that I'm like a whole tech but we'll keep on talking. Yeah, I think. Yeah, I want everyone around me to go this purpose fund. So it's just a tool. It's all it is. But even with the GLPs, it's about dosing. You don't want to go so high. They're like, oh, I can't eat. Oh, yes. Dosit to where that's not there. But you're reaping every other benefit from that. Oh, they should definitely hang it up. Everyone's surpassing you on everyone's this. First of all, how do you know, bro? Like, you know what I'm doing. I was like, you think I'm sitting on the couch and I just don't train anymore? Like, I don't understand. And mentally, you know, I'll be honest. Did it actually affect me? Yeah. Hey, everybody. Welcome to It's Just Body Building. Big round part of the show here with Dusty Handshot and the producer Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes, remember, I am mutant.com. Get your ice and surge, get your all in. And everyone, she get on the gear, Dusty and Big round are your codes. And today, we are doing the guess thing, which you people say you really like because otherwise it's just the three of us. No one likes that. No one wants to treat us. We got Nick Walker on the show. Nick, it is fantastic to see you. We just did a reaction to you over on Blood Sweat and Gear. I was invited on that show the other day and we watched one of your videos and we had a good time. I watched it. Yeah, I watched it. Oh, yeah. Very good. If you catch a skipscomment, he looks like I don't want to be. Now, I know he's a real nice guy. Yeah, call me the face of Gary. As you said, I look psychoda. Yeah. You look very intelligent psycho. Yes. Like you're going to like the doctor looks like glasses. Yeah, you did the formulas, but you're psycho. Yeah. Yeah. So just, let's talk about your training first, Nick. You get a lot of people talking about your training. Obviously, you're probably get tired of talking about it because the way you train looks a little different than how you used to train or how a lot of other guys are training right now. And I hear people mention it constantly. We did the reaction based on your training there. But how is the body feeling? It obviously is responding. Everything looks good. It's going great. The body feels fresh. The thing is like, I listen, I love training balls to the wall heavy. I mean, there's just no, this is really. No fun or feeling. You just pick it up some heavy shit and throw it in around. And I think he got me to a certain level. And then I just think my body, I don't want to say stalled, but like it was okay, what I'm doing, I have a lot of weed points. So what I'm doing obviously isn't working. So I have to switch it up a little bit. And that kind of where I adopted the type of training that I do now. And that just kind of began to build up every weed point that I really had. I'm being the key word. Yeah. I don't think there's a weed. There's no left. I mean, regardless of how things went at, you know, you did a couple of shows there. Yeah, the one was at about as close of a call as they can get technically. I mean, we all know the truth on that. And then you did the other show right away and smoked that one. But the consistent thought between how you looked at both of those shows was that you were the biggest and best you had ever been. So that tells me that, you know, the instinctual stuff you're doing in the gym is paying off. Oh, yeah. I mean, well, the demon said what I weigh. I think it's for I was 264. Then New York, I was actually even a little lighter. I was 262. Okay. Nice. How is that weight compared to your other shows? So the last show I did was New York pro prior the following year. And I think I was 256, 57. Okay. So your your up no matter what. Yeah. If you came down to be in better condition even, you're still up and away. Yeah. Yeah. So training, one of the comments we got on that show was, well, you know, Nick didn't get this way doing this kind of, this isn't what built the muscle. And we hear that all the time. You know, see the thing that bothers me about comments like that is, yeah, to agree you're correct. But training this way has me building again. So obviously it builds muscle. And who's to say, if I didn't start this way, I wouldn't be better where I'm at than where I am today. Like, well, never know, you know, the, as we younger, what do we talk? Like lift fucking heavy. We're not taught form and all this connection shared and what it's going to do and everything else. We're just told to pick some shit up. Yeah. You know what I think once you get down to learn and mastering that skill, being able to connect with the muscle, so fucking severely, you realize like you don't need that type of poundage because it's only going to fuck up your joints in the long run. Because now I do my wake up in the morning, I just train legs. Now after I did I wake up in the morning, my quads are sore. But I have zero like joint pain, knee pain. Like I haven't had any type of pain in my knees for since I switched to the style of training. Yeah. Yeah, that's wild man. And that's kind of what I was getting at. I want to do that. I got to use like the knee wraps anymore. I don't use nothing anymore. That's the big one though that comes up is like, while he didn't, he didn't. It used that kind of training to get this way, you know. Yeah. If you could go back and like you said, we can't go back, but if you could go back, what would you have done differently, you know, if you could start it again? If I could redo it, I would train exactly the way I'm training right now. Oh, okay, right on. Because I would just be curious to see if, if, if I would be why Matt today, or ahead, or not even close to why I'm Matt today, you know what I mean? Like, I would just be very curious. So when, when I see training, I've had something that I've got with some of my clients as well that I think would be obviously better heard from you, which is, I think when people see slow training, the only thing they think of is that the weight is moving slow. They're not thinking about the fact that you're engaging the target muscle to slow the negatives, to push the positives, you know. So yeah. Is that something that you've had to kind of explain to people along the way, too? Because as you know, you can just slow it down, but what is making the weight move? It's the same idea in reverse. That's so that it's funny, you bring that up because I actually, I posted a squat video, a high squat video I just did on my TikTok. And like, I got my ass shoot out by like all the little fucking schmuck kids. They're like, oh, that's not failure. He's not even shrub one. He's not there. And unlike, I actually made a rebuttal video that one of the kids. And I think, yeah, it makes it looks like it's easy. I said, but I promise you, if I put you through this type of set, you would probably be crying. Right. I said, you have to develop that skill to be able to connect so hard with a muscle that, yeah, it looks easy. It looks like I did a struggle. It looks like I did a go to failure. But trust me, my legs were frobbing. Really bad. And yeah, could I go on it? And I've also learned going to failure, which works for some. I would see a lot of people. I learned to kind of not do that anymore. Like whole like a rebuttal in. And just do like another set or two. And I have learned, obviously, that creates for me less fatigue over time. But it also allows more stimulant on the muscle. Versus is just taking one set, all out failure, and possibly get a risk injury. Now of course, there's a recovery factor. You know, I don't want you to do all this volume in one session. And then you got lazy again, you know, whatever Friday, you know, like I'm still f***. Because this is like very, it's also a very fatigue. You've never done it in the sense of how slow the eccentric reps are. That's very demanding period. But once your body adapts to it, you're able to start doing more and more and more. Like I always tell people, like if you want to try it, like literally do one set of like 15 reps, basically shot just shy of failure or just reaching that mechanical failure for all your exercises. And if you do it right, you'll be sore as f*** the next day. Hands down. How how how how how fussy are you about your actual training volume. Like, you know, some guys they like, they're, they got the chart out today as five working set to chest. I would not do a six no matter what. I would like it's fine. No, like how are you and you're in the gym or you're thinking about like what you're supposed to be doing or you're training by feel more. It's always, so I have like obviously like my set workouts, my set exercises. But I'm not married to it. Like if I go to it, like let's just say like on a like day, my first exercise is seated like correct. Let's just say it's not worth it. I'm just not feeling it. I'm not going to get this and go off. I'll just go do something else that could make up for it like you know, lying like hers or just some, or maybe a go try a difference. See the like girl. Maybe if I'm just not messing with this one today. Right. But no, I've never like married to it. I tell this to everybody because I feel like that just f***s a lot of people up. Like I always say like training away your supposed to train, but training supposed to be the fun part. No matter what, training is supposed to. If you're not having fun, you're not going to progress. And I always use laser as an example. But like let's just say for example, you have three exercises. We're just just to simplify it. You got C to Lake girl, ladies, then shins, hackswap, right? You do your whatever you need to do on C to Lake girl, you do it. You go to the hacksquap now. And let's just say you get to your first set. F***ing was a bagging set. You're always supposed to do chore 3 though, right? You do the second set. F***ing phenomenal. Thought amazing. You do the third set. Felt even better. Harder but better. I do another bro. Just keep going. Why stop? If it feels good, just keep f***ing. You never know. You can go to your next exercise and it doesn't feel right. And if a lot of people are like, fuck, this exercise felt so good. I don't know why it stopped. And it's like, you don't have to. There's the next, yeah, I thought it would work out. It's a marketing where I just done two exercises. I've done a C to Lake girl for like four or five sets. And then a half-squat for five sets. My legs are smolking, but I'm going home. Yeah. I don't need to do more. Are you log in this stuff? So if I log my workouts, yeah. But if I do what I just said there, I won't necessarily log it. Because I kind of went out of the log book itself. But I will write did five sets here and did do this. You don't even mean. Yeah. I just, I don't think you should ever be married to something. You know, if something just feels good, just keep going. Why do you have to stop? You know? Sounds like your cold play concert. Sorry. Feels good. You feel good. You feel good. All right. Are you the type of guy that'll train like, you don't know a training partner right now, DNA? No, I don't really like training partners. I like the train to alone. So you train alone. No, I trained alone for a lot of my competitive years. But I would always train at a certain time a day. So there was all the guys around that could spot me on, you know, press and stuff. Are you guys like that? No, somebody. You got to have your, well, like I had to have like the guys around her because yeah. And I had everyone in the gym trained on how to spot me. Yeah. Right? Because I, you know how to spot me. Can I get spot, you know? Yeah. Are you like that now? Do you still get spots of people or are you kind of, I actually don't like to be spotted? Because like I said, I don't train anymore. So we're like, it's different change of the world. I don't do force reps. I'm not doing anything when I'm done. I'm done. I wrong you. Yeah. And I also don't, excuse me. I also don't really do much like freeway shit. Don't about, you know, I love done about, so I'll do that. But as far as you know, freeway barbell, I have it like really done any of those and years. I just go to the Smith. So for me, I don't really need a spot, you know, all on the Smith anymore. And like I said, I just with the way I train, it's just, if I'm not going to do that, I can just do another set. I don't want somebody to touch my fucking bar, you know, I don't touch me. I don't touch my bar. Yeah. What time of day do you normally train? Is it gym busy when you're in there? No, man. I go around 1 p.m. When everyone's at work. And there's just like the ones that obviously don't work, they're the hard core bodybuilders that are some trouble. I just want to do a little bit of gym work. Yeah. All that one a clock crew, the dormant from all the. Oh, yes. Not too busy, not too hot. Just the right amount of people. You feel good. You feel great. You work out of it. Now, how do you feel? You know, you say tough times don't last tough people do, right? And you've had a couple of huge setbacks. I mean, I mean, we're going back a couple of years in a row, right? Yeah. And now here you are kind of at your best. And all of that seems to be behind you. Like it seems like so long ago now that you missed the. Oh, like, but right, it seems like it was ages ago, but it was really just recent. How do you feel? How far away does it feel to you and how excited are you this year? I, so I'm obviously very excited. I feel like, you know, if I'm going to be completely transparent, I do feel like this is the year, you know, and I, the only time, I'm always confident everyone knows this, right? But the last time, like I had this type of feeling where I'm like, oh, like I really fucking feel it this year was the year I tore my fucking hamstring. So I don't know if that's a good, I don't know if that's good luck or bad luck for me, you know. Right. But that was like the only year that like, I'm like, there's no one. That I feel can beat me right now. Right. Right. I was like, granted everywhere. And I just kind of have that same feeling going into it now. With how my conditioning is being 290 pounds with the way I look with the way, you know, we were going to bring my waist to even more, like I just feel like everything, you know, nothing would kind of jinx it here, but everything just kind of going the way it needs to go. Yeah. What were you doing when you when you tore your hamstring? What happened there? That's nothing. I just stood up. Oh, fuck. You weren't even telling that. All bodybuilders do it. Yeah. No, people ask you to like, what were you doing? I was thinking like, I don't know. Five plates. I don't think it's or something. No. But also, but and again, I always tell them Jim. Pin out. Yeah, right. I always tell this to people because they always just focus on the hamstring. I tore my calf on the other leg too. Hmm. That's the same day. You kidding. I didn't even know that. Yeah. Do you guys know that? So like, I didn't. So I didn't know exactly the hamstring was torn. I just stood up. Yeah. I felt like a very sharp pain. And I'm like, what the? Flaw. And I just kind of kept doing my workout. And like as the workout was going on, the pain just became sharper and sharper and sharper. And being the dude, right? I don't like, well, I've finished my fucking workout. I'm not, you know. I would deal with this tomorrow. I'm only doing shoulders. You know, like three of this next bra. I'll bear the pain. Yeah. Right. So it's like, at the end, I was like, well, I got an adwabs, right? So I was doing, hanging leg races. And I was trying to baby this, the hamstring leg. So I came down on the other one and missed my foot placing and I heard a pop in my calf. Oh, God. And I'm like, fuck me dude. Yeah, right? No. So we heard his hamstring standing up and his calf doing abs. Yeah. Wonderful. Wonderful. What's up? Hey, I would have changed my training, too. Yeah. Right. Just doing leg races anymore. And you'll look at it. That is serious. Look at everything I was doing. It was crazy. It's like, I, even with it, if I never like, fucking calf, I was still so confident. That's like, I'll, I'll do it. I'm still going on stage with this hamstring. I don't give a shit. Right. I was just like, I think he put the other one. Yeah. The calf I couldn't walk dude. Like it was, and it, and like his, my right leg, which is where the calf was, is like, the leg I kicked back to flex to hamstring, the glue for the back. I couldn't do it. I literally couldn't stand on it. So I'm like, this fucking sucks dude. And I remember, because like, when it happened, at the time, in my ex, we would just watch my leg every hour, just get more breeze and more swollen. Oh, it's a worse feeling. So, and we went at the time, we were sent pictures to Matt every hour. Right. Because, and he'd be like, it's fine. Just we're, we'll see him in Florida. Well, we'll get it worked on. It's good. And me and her would just look at each other. And she's like, I was saying good, this, like, it's a little work. But he's just trying to be like, yeah. And the stand-up pocket is, he's like, now we're good. I promise we're good. And I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, they were not. We're not good at all. So we get to Florida. I mean, I still went. We get it worked on. I think it was like the second day I was there. It just, it just wasn't. I couldn't walk. It was just how it worked. I was just wasn't happening. So I remember it was like, Wednesday night. I think it was. Maybe even a Tuesday night. I finally threw it on the towel. I went to the massage guy. And he's working on it for like 45 minutes to one hour. He's making a worse. Just ripping it off. I think it's probably. Right? So he's actually get up. And he's like, can you like try to hit a back double? And I'm like, okay, so like I tried and basically fell. So then he's like, he helps me. He's like sit, just sit down. So I sit down. And he looks at me. Then the face and he goes, I didn't want to be the one to have to do this, but I don't think you're going to make it, bro. And like I knew at the whole time, but it was like being told. Yeah. You're just, you just got the confirmation you didn't want to hear. Yeah. So like that was it. Like I just broke down. Like that was it. I thought I remember texting Matt earlier the next morning. And I'm like, this isn't going to happen, bro. I think we both know this. And he just replied, it was just like, Yeah, he's like, just if you want, like we're all going to meet in the gym in the hotel. If you want to just come hang out for a few minutes. Yeah. And I'm like, yeah, I find. And it was just like one of those weeks where it was just this, it was like a weakful of disappointment, you know. Well, so I, I have this weird macabre sort of fascination with this incident. So sorry for bringing back the memories. But this is something I think about it. This is something you're just a drug you threw. I got to ask you one more question because like, you know, we all dreamed. We all dreamed all of us dreamed of going to the Olympia, right? Yeah. I was smarter not to go have the, yeah, yeah, yeah. And, and obviously the nightmare of pulling out of a show is something that everybody builder understands if you never had to do it. You still get it. You're like, oh, God, what a waste of time. What a feeling of waste. That must have been your in Vegas. It's not going to happen. Orlando or Lando, right, you're in Orlando. It's not going to happen. How do you actually handle that? Do you say the, the woman at the time to go, let's go get the best pizza in Orlando? Whoa. Yeah, like what exactly is the first thing you do to actually fish and the prop? You know what I mean? Like, I'll give you a play by place since you want to. I do. It was, it was early the morning and it, and once so I had, I made like all the phone calls to like the man in Is another, let them know like I'm, right? So the phone calls come first. Yeah, absolutely. Bizzle, I like that. And even then, like I still don't fully think like it's like sat that I'm not in it yet, right? Yeah. So like, you know, Matt looks at me. We're outside. And he just taps on the shoulder and he goes, You Maria just, just go to breakfast, man. Just, just go east. So I'm like, okay. Right. So we don't eat. I've got to, I've been, I didn't give a shit. I might fuck. Okay. So hotel breakfast is out there. Even if I, I'll get back to it, but even if I fast forward, I ate so much shit. The entire, but the best part was like, I didn't have to go through like the whole water manipulation shit. Right. And I ended up losing a shit ton of weight from my body. He was like, what the fuck is this, Jib? Right. You don't actually get a reason. That's the fuck. You gain the weight. And I'm losing. This is awesome. Yeah. Well, so we get back into it. And then that's what we're going back to the hotel. We may like the video. Me putting out that I'm not in it. And it's still like, it still wasn't like, I wasn't, it wasn't like sticking. That is, I'm not doing it yet. So obviously everyone was very concerned because then I don't know if you've Remember seeing the pictures, like the bruising was just everywhere. And everyone was like, I think I did touch them. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. So I don't know if I want you flying. So we should get a number. I just to be sure. Like a blood clot, you mean? Yeah. So I'm like, no, I'm good at it, bro. I didn't want it. I'm like, no, I'm good. I'll be honest. I'm like, no, I'm good. And he's like, no, I think we should just be safe. Yeah. I'm like, what I don't okay. Fine. So it's like after I went to the expo, I think Friday. Yeah, it was Friday. And then Friday night, like an hour before pre-judging, I had a go get the MRI, which was that was boring as fuck. They had to do like an hour on each for the hamstring and the calf. I get out the first time. And I'm like, oh, God fucking done. And he goes, do you need to pee or eat or anything? I might for what I do. He's like, you gotta go back in. Oh, man. So when I realized you fit in the tube, that was your body. But I'm like, I'm like, what do you mean? He's like, we have to do the calf now. I said you could and capture both on few feuds. I just sat there for an hour. He's like, no, he's playing it. But like, oh fuck me dude. So he go back in about a time. And then like where we got the MRI done. It was like 45 minutes for like where I was staying. So at the time we got there, we missed pre-judging. So we didn't miss it. But like I just like, I'm not going. I just want you to go. I'm not going. So then it was like, we washed it on the live stream. Just chilling and then sat at the rolls around. We go with the XBO for a little bit. I'm like, all right, I know we're going to go to finals. And I think it was like two hours. I'm just sitting in the chair. And I just like, I think I just had like my real breakdown. I got like so upset. So fucking angry. I'm like yelling, screaming, fussing like a crybaby. Goin crazy. I think it was like I'm about to go to finals in a fucking wheelchair. And watch a show that I was so confident I was going to fucking win. But I'm sitting in that wheelchair looking at everyone and getting more upset that I would have walked everyone's fucking ass. So I'm like, but that was like, I think right before we left, like I just had like that, that full breakdown. Wow. I remember seeing you. I remember seeing you at the show in the chair. Yeah, it was wild. It was not Halloween vision my week going. And like you're the type of guy where I would normally like, hey, I was going Nick, you know, but like I remember thinking like, I don't know what to say to Nick. Yeah, I don't know what to do. I'm like, I'm like an ass guy. You know, hey, how's it going? How's it going? How's it going? How waiting for you? I'm trying to go hard not to be rude to be so good. I don't want to be rude to people, but they would ask you like, how you feeling? I'm like, I'm feeling, bro. I'm a kill-it-be a rouse. Most of me on stage, no fucking wheelchair. What? I don't know if you would. I know if you don't know what to say, but like that's not the right thing to say. Just leave them alone. Just tap me on the shoulder and say it's okay and keep them all there. Well, it's up. You know what I mean? You're going to be like, look at the block. Listen, Nick, people have a need. A need to say something and don't know how, and I'm just going to make you feel better here. So my father died committed suicide, December 8th. The day after Christmas, the day after Christmas, a girl comes up to me and she goes, hey, how was your first Christmas after your dad died? Oh, shit. Well, it was okay until you just brought it up. I wanted to put my hand on her shoulder go. Would you like a doover? Yeah. Do you want to like, break in? You know, I could erase this if you want to do over it. I'll forget every just at that and we could redo this moment. Wow. What did you learn from all of that, Nick? Like, come in from there back to where you're at today, because I just feel like man, that would have to give you, I'm thinking, like such an appreciation. You know what I'm saying? That's why we had to talk about it. Because we know how you're doing. It allowed me to, well, for one, it allowed me to realize a lot about myself. I'm more resilient than I thought I was. Because as much as that broke me, that also made me. And I didn't allow it to destroy me. I mean, honestly, do like, I got home. I was back to training, the day I got home. I was training in half strings again four weeks later. I did care. I was injecting TB 500 and BPC, one for the seven, like a whole bottle on my leg every other day. I just, I didn't care. I wanted this to heal and I did everything and everything. I possibly could think of to make it go by faster. You know, despite even like all the other personal issues, I had going on even outside of that within the same time frame. I just, I didn't allow things to really distract me of what I need to get done. But it also allowed me to appreciate more of what I've accomplished already. It allowed me to be more appreciative of what I have, where it versus what I don't have. And I think it allowed me to be, it allowed me to enjoy the process. Instead of being so locked in and invisible. You know what I mean? Because here's the thing, everyone knows me. I'm locked in. I don't bother me. I'm like, I'm that person. Yeah. And you would agree. I still am. But I also, I also had a realized like you can't always be that way. Like you can. Just don't, just don't be like, don't block everyone else out. Like you can have a life. You can be full. You can enjoy. You can make the process enjoyable. We know it sucks, right? But it only sucks if you think that way. So I developed this whole new mindset of like, look man, like you be thankful. You're doing what you're, you'd love to do. How do you many people make it to this level? Yeah. So, you know, as much as my goal is to win. And you need to still have that selfishness within you. The matter what? And just learn to appreciate and enjoy that you get to wake up every day and be able to work out in, trainfully in the field. Yeah. With that, that's great. Process. And this is something that bothered me personally watching your watching you. I don't want to use word come back because you got injured. But how did it feel for you watching people after this went down, you know, these couple incidents doubt you. And I just found it interesting because it was the same thing that happened with Jay. He had one, he lost the Olympia and then everyone just wrote him off. Like his career was over. And the same thing happened to you to the point we've joked about it on the show before. Like, oh, well, Nick should just retire then. I mean, he's, it's over, you know. So how did you, you know, I mean, obviously I know it doesn't affect your progress. But does it shock you that how quickly everyone turned their back? And then, of course, once you reminded them who the fuck you were, how quickly they came back. That's the internet for you. You know what I mean? And I go two ways with that like, it's one thing, right? Like, I don't, I give you what I miss this a month. Be it this past one that just happened. Everyone's like, oh, Nick should definitely hang it up. Everyone's surpassing you on everyone's this. Yeah. First of all, how how do you know, bro? Like, you know what I'm doing? I'm, you think I'm sitting on the couch and I just don't train anymore. Like, I don't understand. You know, and mentally, you know, I'll be honest. Did it actually affect me? Yeah. You know, without a doubt. It affected me more this past Olympia than it did to the last one. Because in my, the last one was an injury, right? Like, you can't, there's not a safe. You know, you got hurt. Like, this one was mentally more fucked up because there's things that definitely didn't need to happen, obviously. And I led to some not good stuff. So when I got ridiculed, that one just mentally fucked me pretty bad. I'll be honest for a couple of months. And it took me a while actually to kind of regain that confidence again. Because I remember, before me and Kyle leaned up, I'm like, oh, should we do the Arnold? And he's like, no, he's like, not at all. And I'm like, why? Oh my god, I'm not. Oh my god, you mean, you tell me, no, my wife. And he's like, well, one, I need to learn your body a little bit. And two, we need to get the size back that you kind of lost. So I'm like, ah, fair enough. I get that. So then we had that all season. Obviously, yeah, I think we put the size on back, rather quicker than I think he thought we were going to. Because I got up to like almost 3-10. And for that all season, before we started, yeah. But it wasn't like it. It was a decently good like 3-10, you know. Yeah. So then, you know, even start in the prep. Like it was a slow start. And I just, because I just wasn't. I had other stressors in my life too. And I think I would say, you know, how mental game is. If not everything's target things just aren't going to go as you plan from the start. So things were just very slow from the beginning. And I was just not, I was truly just doubting myself. And obviously, having a new coach that's a completely different method than what I'm used to. It wasn't mine fuck in itself. But I'm, I'm one to follow it, you know. I'm not going to question it. And I think it was. Honestly, dude, it wasn't pride to where I like 10, 12 weeks out. We're okay. I started to finally things were moving. We're, we're good. And I feel good. And I remember texting, kind of. And I'm like, you like, bro, I'm starting to feel good again. And he's like, well, did you ever doubt me? And I'm like, yeah, it was so good. Hold on. It's interesting. Since we started, you know, I'm like, I'm not going to lie. But honestly, I think what really just gave me what I needed was at the time. Like, some of the personal shows going through I was hanging out with my friend De Nillo, like every day. I was going to was house, literally after training. I'd go right to a house and hang out. And he told me him and his girl were like, look, bro, like, we're not going to be here for like the home of it. Like, a bro, we're going to go. We have traveling that we have to do. So I don't, he's like, maybe you should like go home and finish the prep in home. So you're good. You're not alone. And I'm like, huh. Yeah, why not? I mean, cows and jerseys. Fuck it. Why not? So I think at this point, I don't know, it was like seven weeks out maybe six. Soon as I got home, I texted Kyle. I said, look, don't change nothing to the plant. Yeah? I said, I'm alone now, but I'm surrounded by people almost comfortable with. I said, I promise you, my body's going to start changing daily. I said, just trust me. I know what I'm doing. I said, you want me to trust you? Trust me right now. And he's like, all right. He was like, dude, what the fuck? Like, because at the time at seven weeks out, I was sent out of pictures Monday, Wednesday and Friday. And every, he was just like, what's happening? I said, I'm in my element now. I'm back where I belong, I'm alone, but I'm not alone. Yeah. I'm doing it. I'm doing it. Yeah. And I'm doing what I want to do right now with zero distractions to my name. I'm focused. And dude, we didn't change like, literally, he didn't change the diet at all. Probably like, it was probably not a week out when I was at his house. And we just sat at the push a little harder for the fuck of it. But from when I got home and so like, we didn't change the diet once. No kidding. That's always nice. That's what I felt that the stress level came down so much. It's like every Friday and Saturday was a high day. I do high days in a row. And then we go back to that every, I would just my body was just, give it a go. Give us an idea what that means for everyone out there that's. Counting their macros all the time and dieting for their shows and doing a high day. I always say environments, everything. Mind sets, everything. The moment you're in an environment that keeps you at peace. Yeah. You're surrounded by people that bring you peace and everything else. Just falls right into place. And you're golden. We talk about how everything you take in and allow in is also part of your diet. I get to honestly, and I, I, I, I stage so true to this. Your body follows mine, man. Like it's that's not, that's like a kind green thing, you know. It sounds very, you know, but like it's, it's so true. If you're always spiring on up here all this negative shit, your body's going to look like door shit. You, you could, you could, you're probably could be not the best. You're training to be shit, but if you up here, you're fucking happy. You go lucky. You're enjoying everything. Your body's probably going to respond. You're going to look decent. Okay. You know what I mean? Like the moment you're just chilling and having fun again, everything just kind of goes the way it needs to go. I think we've all, all of us as coaches have seen both sides of that as a coach, where you have the guy who has all the tools, but you realize your job isn't to make him look good. He already looks amazing. Your job's to make sure he doesn't ruin it all for himself. Unfortunately, he courses are not in the hotel room. Well, that's what I'm saying. Unfortunately now, with social media as it is, you, you as coaches now are like therapists. Like you have to be, even if you don't want to be, you have to be. Because you can have, you can have a client that's like this motherfucker is, and it'll have to be a potential. But he's like this, you know what I mean? Now your job isn't to, John, but what do you eat? It's, you know, kind of the fuck down, bro. Like you're good. Like what do we need to talk about? Open up, you know? Yeah. Deep compress, please. Let me tell me your thoughts. Yeah. You know, that space, that's kind of what's become now. Hey, let me ask you. So, you know, you said that it obviously took step-in-out side of your comfort zone to work with Kyle. And you said things were different. Can you give us an example of maybe like one thing in his methodology that was like maybe like, I haven't done this. I'm going to give it a try, but I don't know if this is really going to work because it's not something I've done before. Um, can we try? I just hope you can. You know, the diet. It was, it was, um, a lot less variables. We'll say, oh, God. Okay. Yeah. Like a lot less. It's amazing. It's street forward. Yeah. I like that. I like that. Staying in rice. God it. That's literally. That was pretty much. All right. Just to take a Costco card. Let's go. Yeah. Everyday. Yeah. I heard you talk about GLP's recently and that you've used those in the diet. I didn't hear. Yeah. Yeah. I'm just about it. I am the biggest fan of the GLP now. I will stay on that for year round. I think it not even from what I think it can do for people, but from my health standpoint. Yeah. I think it is the most amazing, fucking thing I've ever seen in my life. And I also stay true to that as to also why, you know, we didn't make any diet drastically changes neither. But side being at peace, you know, which I obviously think that's a huge component. My body was just, I couldn't understand it because cardio, cardio wasn't crazy for me. It wasn't out of the normal from what I'm used to. But normally the food wouldn't get lower than what it was. Yeah. I can do as frequent high days, you know, like we did. But I'm like, as much as I'm enjoying it, like I'm also like, I'm not a fucking, I'm not a my piece and all that shit now. But like something's not like this is weird dude. Yeah. And I realized the only different variable that was in place was the retitude type. All right. So that's the one you like. Did you try some of the other ones? I don't know. I've tried to interpret that. Now, now I become a geek on these, like, wholeheartedly now. I think these are a big game changer for a lot of people. And I think it can keep prep on the safer end where you don't have to use a lot of, you know, let's say a lot of T3, you know, where a lot of cland. It can keep you from pushing those does. Now, I have used, I have done a big experiment, which is appetite. I have used and I use retitude type for majority of that prep. And doing a lot of research, I also have found that a lot of people would prefer. And this is all going to be some people's, you know, on the top of the table is when all that other shit and their responses. Some people actually prefer to accept that. Okay. Simply because it does everything that retitude type does. It just doesn't have that extra geek gun factor, which, you know, obviously burns more energy and burns more fat purposely. Yeah. Well, the reason he is is because I think for some people that extra antagonist. I think it backfired on some people, where I think it actually, because they may have been not a good spot already when starting it. That it kind of stressed the body out more. Okay. Versus, chusepti, it doesn't have it. So it's more of like a steady, it's a steady thing where it lowers your blood sugar. It lowers your anyway. It does everything that it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, renter type does, but just doesn't have that extra factor that could probably overdrive you and make you more stressed a little bit. And obviously, it, it dosing is dependent. Sure. And a lot of people would also say, I felt less inflamed on chusepti. Yeah. Versuspti, right? Oh, really. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Because you got to think of it, right? There's, it's a three antagonist. Right. Whereas, there's appetite directly focuses on two main things, which are going to be your sensitivity and probably the inflammation that goes on in your body. So if those are your main issues, I would say that's the one you want. Like if you don't really care about that, because the reality is, you know, with the studies, like there, I don't get fuck what anyone says. There's not much of a big difference between the two, as far as how much fat you burn. Because, you know, especially as a bodybuilder, I don't, you know, especially in the offseason, I mean, I don't give a fuck to burn fat right now. I want to stay lean, but I'm not, you know, and if there's appetite, keep my A1C and insulin sensitivity and all that in check, you're really not going to give fat anyway. So what, you know what I mean, which I think is, I'm, I'm proven factor of this, as we speak. But, and that's why I hate all the rumors. All it burns muscle. Oh, oh, does it? Are we sure? We're not sure if Walker's diet. Yeah, you know what I mean? But this is, this is what gets to me, right? They're like, oh, yeah. It burns muscle. It does this. Yeah, if you're not fucking eating, bro. Right. That's what you're saying. You can take it a abundance of drugs. If you're in a calorie deficit for too long, doing three hours of cardio, guess what? You're going to bring muscle. It's the same fucking day. Yeah. So it's just a tool that's all it is. But even with the GLPs, it's about dosing. You don't want to go so high. They're like, oh, my God, I can't eat. Oh, yeah. Dosit to where that's not there. But you're reaping every other benefit from it. Right. 100%. Man. Yeah. Like, because even for me, I don't have it. But like, I don't have the food noise. I don't crave nothing. I got all. Yeah. Like, that's gone. I eat. And I'm chillin. I don't like, I'm not starting between meals neither. But when it's time to eat, I'm golden. I mean, I'm done in five minutes. Now I go back to doing what I'm doing. And I like that because I, we all know in prep. Like, you kind of look at the clock a lot. I don't, I don't ever do that. I'm like, oh, shit. It's time to eat. Also. Yeah. So it's not, it's not just your hunger is shut down a bit. But because your blood sugar is so controlled and so level, you also feel like you don't have cravings. So it's not just hunger. It's cravings. Yeah. Is that what I'm saying? Yeah. Yeah. And I just think he's like, I have less brain brain fun. Yeah. I feel more like my anxiety's like way down. Like, I just feel fucking good. My trainings exploded. My strengths going up pumps are insane still. So I think when you got these people that make videos like, oh, it's not meant for body building. Ah. How do you know, bro? Have you done it? Yeah. How popular do you think it is with pros at your level? Because a lot of guys at your level aren't talking about what they're doing. Well, it's, to me, it's like drugs, right? Like, and that all of us talk about it. But I feel like a lot of us do it. Yeah. I, I think it's. I like to think I started that hype train a little. I think all the first bodybuilder to say, I use red or true tide. Right. Right. I can't imagine. I said this on Blood Sweat and Gear the other day. And it was a trip that guys agreed with me. But I said that I thought red or true tide from what I'm hearing. I, because, you know, I've cynical. I've seen every drug come and go and every subject. Yeah. This is the latest greatest thing. And then, you know, two years later, you're like, Where's all the GHRP6? Yeah. Yeah. I think it's more right. But I think this one, this one's going to stick around. Because it seems like people are having an easier time dieting. So, and this is where, like, as bi builders, right? Like, here's, I'm going to try and word this nicely. But I can't really. These GLP drugs such as be honest, like, they're meant for fat people. Yeah. Like, let's just call it for words. It's very nice. So, when you hear these people, you know, all I run 15 milligrams, but I run this, I maxed out the dose. Yeah. Yeah. Because you're fat and not active. And all you want is the appetite of precedent, right? When you're a bodybuilder, we're, we're, we're, aren't daily activities changing yearly. Like, we're in off season. So, now we're chilling, even food, we're in front. I don't think we can ever truly get accustomed to a certain dose because that how different the activity truly is. Yeah. But I know a lot of people in prep, they'll push it a little higher, so they get more, I started running a true time. They want more of the fat burning part. They want more of a little bit of the appetite of precedent, so they're not starving in between meals. But in the all season, go, go, literally, just do like a maintenance dose, that which is dependent for everyone, where they're reaping still all the health benefits from it. They're still burning a little bit of fat. They're still keeping their A1 skin check. And they, they fucking get huge and stay lean. I'm not sure I see it down the side here. Right. And they, what you're talking about too, like none of these guys, even when they are pushing a little bit more, they're not doing from what I've seen my experience has been like still tiny. These are small doses. Dude, I'm not a stop. A reddish, true tide. This is not not even kidding. I was legit right under two milligrams. Right. Yeah. Yeah. I'm a big microdoser. I don't like to do big shots at once, especially something that could suppress my appetite, because it's fucked me. I'm like, well, I don't have long-shrift laughs. You know what I mean? Yeah. So I rather microdose to where like, let's just say one day, I'm like, the next day, I could just really lower it or just not take it that day, and then I'm golden to following day. The moment you think it took a bit of a dose, I'm just going to last you for a few fucking days. You know what I mean? Yeah. I messed around with it too, and tried, okay, but what happens if I do like a once a week dose versus a daily or an average? Yeah. Yeah. I just, I, I, 100% in agreement with you, but I wanted to try it for myself to see, of course, you know, what would you get out of a one week dose? And I found that I got a really strong effect with the weekly dose for a first few days, and then it started to taper. It does all. Yeah. That's why I feel like with the microdose, it does it where off. But you're also not getting crazy side effects from it. Yeah. And when Nick's talking about under two milligrams, we're talking the, the research is being done on four, eight, and two. Yeah, dude. Because I was literally doing, I'm with you, 100%. I was doing, so it was a point, point two five every morning, which I think is like 1.75 milligrams for the week. Okay. Okay. Yeah. It's good. Yeah. Yeah. Like that was, that was my dose. It's good. That reaction we did with of you, skip was talking later about his issues with it. It's like he was struggling to load, you know, and I have found there is a little bit of a difference with that at the end. Did you guys pull it by the way, coming into the show at all? You just left it, let it ride, and you were able to load no problem. I wrote the whole question. I wrote the whole way. Okay. Yeah. And I think that they're going to the dosing you're using, you know? Yeah. I didn't have any issues. If I thought there was a problem, I didn't like let's pull it a few days out. Yeah. Yeah. But honestly, I just, I felt great. I had no issues. I had no issues getting full. I had no issues staying full. So I just, we just sort of like, he didn't, he was like, do you feel fine? I'm like, yeah, he's like, all right, don't pay nothing. Okay. Yeah. So the name of the game in every final week. If you feel and look good, leave it alone. Yeah. And as far as I'm concerned, there's like no, there's no rebound effect from reddit through the tie. But I like, oh shit, I'm hungry again. But yeah. You know, that's like coming out of a prep, right? Like you get on the binge eating. Like that's your problem. That's not the drug problem. Sure problem. You know? Yeah. Hey, rapid fire. What do you guys say? We have some. Yeah. I've got a bunch here. You've got some too. All right. Yeah. Let's take you with some rapid fires, Nick. All right. Okay. Some of these are, some of these are better than others. Okay. Okay. Okay. If they made an action figure out of you, what accessories would you come with? Glasses. I mean, yeah, glasses. A little bottle of reddit true tied. No. Yeah. I got my little bottle hanging off my chest. You got it on a chain. Maybe it's on a chain. I got it. Yeah. I got three rings. Just chill out your ring. The rings would have to be there. Yeah. I would want I would definitely want to hold like a samurai sword. Oh, just for no reason. Just walk around the gym. I want to hold a samurai sword. You know. So he comes with this sword. Okay. Yeah. Why? Why do you want it? Yeah. Just for the whole day, bro. I've got this one. What's the strangest reaction you've ever gotten in public? Like airport grocery store. Or somewhere that's like not body building. Oh, so I was I was outside of a restaurant. And like I had that there was like this this girl. This this one of the reasons was it was very funny. And she walks past me and they're like little British accent. She goes. Fucking huge. Ha ha ha ha ha. You said it nowhere. Yeah. Literally. She was just eye me up. And I like saw her. I had the corner of my eye. And she just screamed that. I just started dying. I was funded funny when people. You know how like a guy like you most people say oh, that's a body builder. Yeah. But then you get the odd person that doesn't quite understand. Like they would maybe maybe say you had a hoodie on. They might say, or you are wrestler or are you a NFL player or something. You know, you got the weird like the. Yeah. Is there anything you get that's you get football players? I don't know. I would get. You're going to put it a lot. I would get NFL. I couple times I got WWE. Yeah. That's what city you're into. You know, if you're in one of those cities that has all the teams. You know, you know what I love. I love when like. You have people that come up to you. They're like really, really nervous. And they just asked you like the dumbest fucking question. Yeah. Like I had one guy. I just this one was just it made me laugh so hard. And I felt bad. But I just couldn't help but laugh. I was at the I'm out of jail and training and he comes up to me. He goes, What are you doing at the gym? I'm like, excuse me. He's like, what are you doing at the gym? I'm training. He goes, I'm sorry. I don't know if you. I thought there was a punch line coming. I was no. He just wanted to say, well, he didn't get it. He's like, oh, that's shit. That was probably dumb as shit. Yeah. What are you doing? I'm a bodybuilder. I work out. And I'm like, bro, it's good. Don't you're fine. That's amazing. How about this one? If Marvel came out, they got a hold of you. And they're like, look man, we want you to be like the center of our next movie. Would you pick that over an Olympia title, which one would be a bigger movie for you? Don't do that to me. There's a lot of zeroes, Nick. On the Marvel contract, how much might it pay? There's more zeros. Yeah. There's a common and different place on that one. Bro, it's okay. Here's my loophole. When do we start filming? You know what I mean? Yeah. But I'm going to make both happen. Yeah, you like this. Yeah, he didn't say every. He said, which one first? We start filming like December. I mean, count me in. Yeah. Right. Good shape for that, too. And be honest, would you be a superhero or super villain? I think I'd be a villain, bro. Yeah. We're going to go with that. That'd be a great villain. Here's what they've been a superhero's cool shit. They're just some Bob Dylan. You can talk black. You're like a cool villain. Yeah. That sets you up. You know what I mean? If you're like a dorky villain, I don't like you. I want to be that badass villain. I don't want to be that badass villain. I want to be that badass villain. Let's just remember that the dark night was stolen by the Joker. Yeah. It was. Yeah. I'll be a horrible villain. But I need a great monologue at some point. You know, you want that moment. You want to steal the movie, you know? You just, yeah. I get it. Just like the Joker. If everyone looks at you and thinks meathead because of how you look, what's something people would never guess about you? Yeah. I love Disney movies. You're kidding. Be more specific. Yeah. You exactly knew what I'm gonna be proud of Disney. What? All of it. Do what I'm in, probably around six weeks out. I watch like Glany in the tram. I watch Toy Story, Master's In, Finding Nemo. I watch him all dude. Shit that keeps me at peace. Yes. Disney is the way to go. Is there some kind of attachment to when you were a kid? Yeah. Does Disney make you happy? You can't watch Disney movie not be happy. There was only one. That was Marley and me. Fuck, fuck that movie. Fuck that movie. Fuck that movie. Fuck that movie. That was like, that movie. That movie. That movie. That movie. That movie. That movie. That movie. It's just a shit. We got to watch another one. I got to read. We do it. We got to read the movie. That's why. That's a number one question. That my wife does that. If there's ever a dog shows up in a movie. She's like, this dog doesn't die, does it? Yeah. I'm not saying that. I don't know if you're watching like a gangster episode and the guy's got a dog. She's like, this isn't going to John Wick. Is it? I'm not watching this. There's so many movies. We're like somewhere in a dog is killed. My mom's like, I hate this movie now. I can't do this. It has nothing to do with the movie. It's like, it's like, it's good off. We would really point. We would just watch this show the other day. And this murder scene shows up. You got the father, the mother, and the dog dead. And as soon as we walk out, who the fuck kills a dog? Yeah. You'd zero, zero, could serve for the dead human. So like, bro, it does that. I get the people. Yeah. They probably have people. They probably had it coming, but that dog didn't do shit. No. What here's one for you. How after how this year has gone so far, leading into the Olympia with everything in your rear view mirror, what does a successful 2025 for Nick Walker look like? I think it's beside what do you want to do Olympia? What's the success for you this year? I think it's the success for me outside of winning. Obviously would just be being just the best person I can be for the people around me, and not being so shut it off. Not being a dick, you know? Like, not that I'm like a whole dick, but we'll, you know how prepping it. I think. Yeah, I want everyone around me to go, this prep was fun. Yeah. You know, because here's the thing, I'm sure we've all like, how that success or we want to show, right? We're so proud, but we were just dickheads. So like everyone around is like happy for you, but like you can sense like the energies. They're all like him glad to know. But no, like, oh, we're happy for you. Like you were a dick. They're happy it's over. So yeah, exactly. So if I can have this, that success of winning, and everyone enjoyed it with me, that success. Nice. So I got one more. You have possibly. If you look at the top pros, if you look at Samson and Derek and you and all the guys that are in the, in the, in the talk, really, in all the top 10 Olympia guys, you have possibly the worst. Beginner pitcher. But it's what makes you as a bodybuilder so fucking amazing to me, because we all came up, seeing that guy at his first show that walks in and he does his first show and you're like, all this guy is going to be a pro. This guy, look at the arms on this fucking guy. You know, I've smirmer showing up at Nationals with some dude is there for the first time and he wins the overall. And you've been there 10 years in a row, slugging away in this guy walks in. Someone just told him, he should try bodybuilding and he's a pro through years later. We've all seen that guy come up a bunch of times. You were not that dude. That your first show, you, you at your first show, I don't mean to go too hard here. You displayed zero potential. You want to know, you want to know, you want to know, just like I did back then. You just, you know, you're a potential. You want to know what's funny. Oh, this is a true story. Even then, I said, I'm going to want to miss the view one day. Is that the difference? Is it because you were always on here? Like, is that what? But I'll explain this, please. He was also high. Go ahead. Highly tight, brother. That prep. What happened during that prep? I started that prep at like 2 to 30. Like I was, I'm a big kid naturally. Right. Right. That I guess before. And I, you know, I, every wrong mistake you could make in a prep was made within that prep. So, after that prep, as it was miserable, that was part of my most miserable prep I've ever done. I remember I'm like, you know what? Like, I know if I did a prep right, I can win. Yeah. Like, I was so confident saying that. Right. And then I came back to following here literally like 30 pounds heavier peeled one every show I did. That's wild. Did anyone remember you from the first show like no? No, I was totally different. Like, you, it was unrecognizable. Yeah. The kick, kick cont, I won at that first show. This is a marketing. I was 159 pounds. Wow. You weren't lean. I weren't. Hey, man. I had a six pack brother. That's all it took in your first show. I had that too. I had a six pack. No fuck with me. The following year, I was a hundred and ninety four pounds. Okay. Oh, wow. And he had more than a six pack. More than a six pack. No, that's just great. That's what we got. That's what we got. That's what we got. Yeah. It's great. Because you know, like we've seen all that like, you know, the guy in high school and then up on stage is a pro and you're like, oh, yeah. He's a Jake. I'm a Jake. Yeah. Jake. Jake. Jake. Jake. Jake. Jake. Jake. Jake. Jake. Jake. Jake. Jake. Jake. Jake. Jake. Jake. I like how we know that. They're okay. They're yes. I'm glad you explained that to me, because when I look at that picture and I look at how you look now. I'm this like, I cannot wait for Nick's. I'm not going to see you at the show at the Olympics, you are fucked. Oh, I'm sure show me. Get cut of that. But yes, for show pitch, it's not good. Yeah. Well, dude, I also have a time you guys in the story. What you said to me, the 2017 North Americans. What. No. This was my second show on Nick's Mom's Sand stuff. Yeah, this was my second, it was my second national show I never done. North American 2017. We, again, overdited, definitely not my best. It was one of those looks to where like you start carbon up and you're losing like pounds every morning. You're like, oh shit, we're fucked. We're on the right way. Yeah. So I get on stage, right? The honestly didn't go as planned. And I'm walking back to the hotel room after pre-judging. It's dead silence walking back. It's a very long, dreadful walk. And I don't know where my mom's behind me and she goes, she helps him puffs, she goes, you know Nick? You look like shit. I love your mom so much. And she demonstrated, she goes, I have my camera out and I put it down. I didn't even want to take him photos. And he hears a thing, like I, I'm like, mom, just wrong timing. You know, yeah. You could have waited till tomorrow. You know what I mean? Breakfast, so we're, can I have, you know, get some, you know, some pancakes in my mouth before you decide to get to me? And I have to just have that moment, please. But yeah, I do, I'll never forget that. We should go this way. I made. You look like shit. Yeah, look like shit. I think that shirt would pop off after this episode. But she was just like, the way to do it was so subtle. Like it was just, it was like it didn't be like me, nothing. You know what I mean? I was just like, you broke my shit, you know? Yeah. You could have some women usually destroy you. Just a soft comment. Yeah. And then your brain just spins with it for three days. But actually, I have that shirt comment. I have my phone out and I put it right down. You might have. I do take one memory. Yeah. I don't want to get this as a suit as you possible. I don't remember. She really did take any pictures. It was screaming. I don't know where you got that garbage. Yeah, I'm like, I'm like, I'm not going to. Yeah, she's always got like, okay. So I even told her, well, I got stories now. I love this. She's so good so much better. Dude, it was honestly the night before Pittsburgh. I obviously, she wasn't there when we were at the Airbnb. So I always just kind of sent her pictures periodically. And I was usually, she knows this me calls first, perhaps. So I sent her like, it was pictures like before the last meal we ate. And she just, she looks good. No, I'm like, okay, cool. Thanks. Mm-hmm. Obviously, I sent her pictures the next morning. She was like, he looked great here. Like, okay. After the show, we're sent out cheesecake factory. She looks at Kyle on she goes, Kyle. I got to be honest with you. And I'm like, oh, not, not now. He's going in. And she goes, next sent me those pictures last night. He didn't look good at all. She's like, I was up all night stressing. She's like, I wasn't going to say anything. And make it worse. He didn't look good. Look washed out. I wasn't happy. And I'm like, so I'm like, oh my god. So we get back to the Airbnb. And I look at Kyle. I said, I am not sending her any more pictures. Don't worry, bro. Yeah. I'm like, we're going to the only pictures I will send her is the ones we think are like, yeah, she'll like this. You need to run through a verification process. Yeah, other than that, she's not giving an update throughout this week, brother. Was not happy at all. Yeah. She has that one this time night. She's learned. She's learning. You did this to me. She was so the way she said it to, she was kind of, I didn't sleep at all. I put it on you. I'm like, what the fuck? Like, it's a lot of Kyle. She walks off. I'm over here. She's K-Dum, I throw him like, what is happening? Oh my god. I always, I already loved her, but it's gotten so much better now. I'm glad. I feel like she gets more blunt as she ages. I love her. I'm glad Kyle got the full dose on her. I'm thrilled to go on. Well, you want me to call the sides of, you know, link up and do this. The first thing he says to me is like, I need to make sure your mother's on board with this. I'm like, I'm like, are we for real, bro? I got a master model. I don't know if you never asked to quiet that. Yeah. I love to work with you, but it didn't make sure your mom does. She's a radiation, your mom's fool with it. I'm like, no! What did you do? But what he did know at the time was actually, it was my mom's idea that it worked with Kyle. Right. It was a range of marriage already. So it was fun. It was, yeah. My mom initiated it. It's not out of the novel. I'm like, yeah. Amazing. Okay. Well, we got to have any more. We got to hold it that. You can't really cut it that out. That was good. That was great. Thanks Nick for coming on and hanging out with us. Yeah. And now we're plus your time. I know that every hour is very valuable for you. Well, these are, these are podcasts I enjoy. You know, you take that with the boys and the sharing stories and having fun. I hate like the all serious podcast. I don't like you. I don't want to do that shit. What childhood trauma do you think is displaying itself? That's true. You're a couple of development. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Tell me why you started body. But what did you go through as a child? Fuck off man. Like I watched Conan a bunch of times. And here we go. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Thanks Nick. We look forward to seeing you on the stage competing. That's your best. Yeah. That's your very best, which I don't know. These guys can be able to handle you at your best Nick. I feel like I'm going to shock everyone again. You know, that would be awesome. Because people are very excited. Yeah. People. People are saying. People are saying. We're not the people. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Thanks Nick. Thanks for coming on. Thank you for having me. You bet. Remember everybody like share a subscribe comment and that's right. And remember I'm eating.com. Get your all in get your ISO surgeon. Everyone should get on your gear. Dusty and big Ron are your codes. Thanks very much Nick. Olivia bound. What are we 10? How many weeks? Well 12 weeks 12 weeks. Okay. Thanks Nick. See you there. And remember it's just bodybuilding.

I might be called weird for this. I don't work off anger. I work better off sadness, so to speak. Like, I like to listen to songs that actually make me think about things that make me very emotional and upset and not angry. And that's, preferably, how I perform the best. I'm not keeping up with music as much nowadays, but I still have to ask. You said, you want to think about those sad memories and stuff, the things that really get you through. You know, what's my goal to put it most far as Evan Nesson? I'm in that, okay, yeah. There we go. I was thinking journey open arms, but whatever. I mean, that's a good one. Yeah, whatever works for me, you know, karma can I, I'm a karma can be. But we're gonna get it. What's up, guys? We'll connect the blood, sweat and gear with coaches, skip, pill, and you bury myself, Scott McDaley. And we are joined today by special guest Nick Walker. What's going on, Nick? What's up? Thanks for joining us, man. Guys, all of our programming is brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code, think, for additional savings. High quality through party tests and stuff with this from a company that you can trust. Nick, we're happy to have you back, man. It's great to have you back on the show. I'm happy to be on. I love this one. So, this is a good one. What in the heck's been going on, man? Were you living these days? Well, I live in Vegas, but I'm doing my prep for New York. At my mom's house, right? I used to live, so I'm just back here in Jersey for now. That's awesome. Because we've been seeing the update pictures from the iconic basement. It can bring the back. Yeah, it brings it back to the USA and the North American days when we saw you pray. Yeah. Then there have been some upgrades, though. I did notice the couch is gone. And it seems to be some merchandise and inventory. I see that too. Yeah. There's a lot of stuff. And the mutant merchandise now. How's that stuff sound? It's pretty good. Yeah, that's well. Yeah, that's awesome. That's awesome. I always like going to shows and seeing your parents there. I feel like they are your biggest fans. They got the T-shirts on. They're up there screaming at you when you're on stage. Oh, that's awesome. Yeah, it's awesome to watch them. Are you doing the merch yourself? Are you getting help from the family? Because I can tell you one thing. Shipping shirts and stuff. It sounds real easy, but it could be a real pain in the butt. My mom does it all. Oh, bless her. That's awesome. That is cool. Yeah. Why do you? Shipping. If you have all the support from your parents and your mom's self, I mean, I hate to ask what's obvious a question, but why didn't you just stay in that basement and not move out because my ass would have fucking stayed at home. Say, money. There's a lot of stuff. I got a girl, but eventually, you know, I told you. I don't want to be a 40 year old body, but I'm living in my mom's videos. Right. There you go. Remember that? What's that kid who did the YouTube videos a year ago or he comes home? He's like a siren guy. He's like, I'm getting my protein. You got my protein on. Simon, don't get me some protein. You're going to talk about it. I remember that kid. You guys should do some skits with that. You and your mom should do that. We actually, I have a lot of funny skits that I want to do with my mom and dad. So there will be some coming. People would love that. I've done a guy that says we have to get her on. That's not getting both on, but your mom seems to be more of the character than your dad. She is. Make no mistake. She shy on camera. She shy on camera. Gotcha. She wasn't shy at the Arnold Classic band. We brought her in. She grabbed that microphone. And she was like, you all better be betting on Nick Walker this weekend. Oh, I guess. I guess she's not as shy as she ages now. Yeah. Yeah. Well, her son's doing a little better on stage these days than maybe 10 years ago or whatever. So he got my mom. She had her bets. But yeah, let's get right into it. Let's start with the Olympia and your injury. I don't actually know what the injury was. I know it was a hamstring injury. Was it a corn hamstring? Yeah, it was a torn hamstring. It's a torn hamstring. Yeah. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. How it happened? I wish I had a cool story. I don't. I just kind of stood up and felt a little twinge. Then it just kind of progressively got worse from there to be honest. And then we'll see what you see the bruising. I'll probably get it the day later. Honestly, I noticed when I set Matt check in photos, I think like the next morning, I could see a little bit of like discoloration forming. It didn't like swell yet. There was some bruising. And I've already torn my other hamstring. So I was kind of at the point where I was like fuck, like I know where this is. Yeah. And then I was the day went on. It started to swell. You know, fuck. Oh my god, here we go. And with the time frame that had happened, it just wasn't. It wasn't going to work. Well, people also don't know. But I don't know if you guys are. But I also, the third, that Thursday before I left to go to Orlando, I tore my calf to no, I didn't know that. I tore my calf on the other leg. So I really couldn't walk at all. Oh god. But the problem with that calf is that was on my good leg. The one like I kick back to for the, you know, the flex my boot. I couldn't do it. So everyone's making a fuss over the hamstring because it looks horrible. But I might, I can't flex. If it was just my hamstring, I would have limped my ass out of the stage. Because I looked insane. I'm not with the hamstring. I probably wouldn't have won it, obviously. But I was more than confident enough that I would have secured my third place spot again. Okay, that was how confident I truly was. But knowing how bad this calf was and I couldn't stand on it, flex it. Like nothing. I'm like, I'm not, this is it. So obviously we went there and met, you know, scheduled me with one of his guys. I was coming down at this bunch of body work and stuff. And I just think it was, we did the best we could. I just thought it was high too soon to really have any work done on it. How fresh it really was. And I don't, I'm not going to say it made up worse. But just it didn't make it better by any means. Yeah. It's kind of added information to information. Yeah. Yeah, it's pretty much. So I think it was like that Tuesday or Wednesday. I just woke up and I just, I just, I just texted him. I said, bro, it's not going to happen. Like I can't walk. You know, like trying to go to the bathroom was like a task in itself. Like I'm not, you know what I mean? We could so you're paying in the video, man. Like we could, all because I'm all those kids feel that, you know. I was very, very, I say it every year. And it is what it is. But I was very, very sure. I was going to win this one. Like that's, I was dead on set. Like no one is going to beat me. And because I was, I was nails from back, peeled dry. I was, I was all, all it could be. Even the photo is that map posted, which was that Thursday, which was the day actually tore my hamster, my calf that day. And that was the day before we were going to ready to leave. He posted those and everyone went crazy. And then we tried it, you know, still work out, Bobby and then Florida. And there was a couple of pictures he posted and people weren't crazy. But I'd never showed my legs obviously. Yeah. But I was just very, very confident like that. This one was going to be the year. So it just not only did I miss, you know, in Olympia, which is the only show I really ever prep for. But I miss what I really thought was going to be the year for me. I can only imagine how that mentally affects you now. You know what I mean? Like no one. Because you're young. You've got, yeah, it's left to head to you. The hamstring. I don't want to say it's like a hundred percent healed. Okay. But like it's, it's, I'll say it's good enough. I don't even mean that though. I, what I mean though is like getting the opportunity to do it again. It's like we never, we never know when our last prep is going to be here any of us. You, obviously, you probably have a lot of prep ahead of you. A lot of, you know, a lot of years ahead of you. But the, the gratitude to be able to do it. Like being able to keep doing this now. I've got you that this year, my thought is, and I think a lot of people have been saying it. You're going to leave no stone on turn. You're going to become a back of the vengeance, you know? I'm, I'm working, you know, it's hard to keep saying it over and over again. But it's like, I'm working specifically harder than I ever have. I'm not, and I'm also just, I'm going to like, I don't give a fuck mode now. Like, I'm usually the guy that keeps quiet and just shut up. I'll be one up on stage. I'm just, I'm talking all shit. And I'm going to shut everyone up. They're, I'm still going to shut everybody up. I just don't care. No, you know, like, I'm not, I will never like bash or be little anyone. You know, of course, but I, I just, I make it known like me and Antonio, we're, we're going back and forth. You know what I'm saying? Like, I'm just, I'm, I just don't care, you know? You know, I think that's why I'm Antonio. I just, I just, I just got a lot of things. He's a bad shit talker. He's got to work on that. He's got to be gay on that. Yeah, he's got to come back. His comeback's aren't the greatest. That's a deal. I'm proud of being older. I think you look, here's the thing, though. And this isn't, I'm trying not to sound like the old guy when I say this, but there's no way around it. Matt and, and guys who are starting out and they're ready to, you know, have those years and years of, of bodybuilding, you know, I don't want to say dominant because I don't want to take away from anybody else, but at the same time, those years of, you know, at the peak of his career, he's not even to his peak yet. I think that's hard to comprehend at that point. I mean, I take myself back to my mediocre bodybuilding career. And there was no thought during an injury of, oh, yeah, it might be done. You're absolutely right Scott, but at the same time, he's just looking at it like just, just get my ass on stage. I just want to wreck some shit. Yeah. And I'm going to do it 20 times over because I've got forever to do it. Yeah, hold on. So I had to go back and find the funniest one that made me like literally spit my gum now. It was on March 1st, Tony Hope, post he posted a pose where he's like, he's hitting like a front shot and it goes, looks the same. That's got to be the best dig you can ever give a bodybuilding. Yeah, right? Is like no improvements like really. Now, go back to the hamstring and I touch on the hamstring a little bit because I'm wondering what you came away with. Here's the thing, you're saying that you're like, like, all bets are off. You're just like, you're going to kill like nothing else. But what does it do to your, I don't want to say psyche, but does it change your approach and go on? OK, did I not read a signal right? Do I need to be, I guess what I'm asking is, it typically will make either consciously or subconsciously make us train a little bit smarter, which is not to say you're not trained smart, but maybe you overlook some things and you're like, I don't be good, it'll be good and then it wasn't good. I mean, what was the takeaway? Because a lot of times during an injury, we want I do because I'm older and I've had a lot of them. There's always a, it's not a great silver line, but it's a silver line since I learned something of the last body that I didn't learn before. Is there anything there? Well, that's funny because like I, to my memory, I've had there was no sign. Like I remember like every training session was fine. And I just remember that one day, I stood up and I just felt like a twin. We all get a little twin during like, whatever, you know? Yeah, but you know, so that's what I thought. And my, I didn't even train the legs yet. My leg day wasn't even so like Friday or something. And this was like a Tuesday. So like I, to my knowledge, there was no like warning signs. And as far as my mindset in training now, it has, it's the same because I just think it was a freak accident. There's nothing. I don't think, you know, in my opinion, nobody trains as strict as it's careful as I truly do. I've heard. I say the only thing I might do different now, so to speak, especially for hamstrings and specifically, I don't go as heavy per se. And I already go slow enough. But now I focus just really squeezing hard at the top and holding it there as I go. Like I never truly like squeezed hard. I don't know, I just focus on like the set trick, hold the pause, explode up, come back down. But now with hamstring, it holding that at the top for a second or two, it even forces you to go a little lighter. So that's just basically what I've been doing. And honestly, I think it's honestly been better fitting, so I feel like my hamstrings got bigger from it. And I do a lot of single leg stuff now for hamstrings. Just to make sure I can connect and you know, get back to what it was. But in the connections, it's fine. I mean, I've had workouts to wear like summer better than others. But the past few workouts, the connection and the pump in there has been really good. So, okay. I did, but I don't do. I have not really touched any type of RDL stiff leg type of movement. I mean, like I've done like a Benofer barball row or in ship of like, as far as direct stiff leg and hamstring work for them, I haven't really gone that far. I just do all seated and lying right now. Okay. And I'm getting, I just, I'm also feeling like I'm at that point within my career or like that movement might not be needed for me anymore. You know, do I miss it? Yeah, because you know, that's how I felt like I built shit. Like hard heavy intense school barbell shit. But my also know sometimes, you know, where I'm at in my career, I feel like sometimes risk isn't worth the reward at this point. And it's better to be a little more on the safer side. So, I got a good question for you then. So we have a lot of guys that are looking up to you. They watch your training. And they, they emulate what you're doing. What, what would you suggest the young guys do differently? Obviously, this could be an example right there. But what would you suggest the young guys do that are trying to attain a lot of size? What do they do differently than you're doing now? Actually, train. Ha ha ha ha. Wait, what? Stop. Stop looking at the mirror so much. No. Um. Honestly, like I've gone back to my old roots now, meaning I don't really train a lot of I am. I do it a during the eights. Like I train for 40 a week right now. And I think it's been in the best I've looked. I felt. Yeah. And all the above. So I just think the main thing is what people need to understand is, and I'm sure we can all agree, you don't need certain exercises to build up a muscle. Like you do it. You don't need a bench to get a chest in my opinion. You don't need a delift to go back. You don't need freeway squats to go. You need to find the exercises that you connect with the best. Make sure you connect with them to the full extent. Take the intensity as far as you can take it and move on to the next exercise. And I just think that's how you grow the most. You're in your out. You train hard. Because you're if you're in fine, the utmost intensity possible. You have no room for volume. Like there is a, yes. You understand what I'm saying? Yeah. And this does nothing against you. I've trained with volume. I've done it. And I do think it has its best. I think there's a time and a place for it just like everything. But my base training is very, very intense. And when I say hard and intense, it doesn't have to be like a durian yate type of set where you're doing like six to eight reps. That's not feasible for everybody. I don't even do that shit. Like if I can take a leg press set of the hardest 20 reps of my fucking life, there's no room for another set. You're done. Yeah. All right. People get wrapped up in trying to do more. But not even do more. They try to go too heavy. And next thing you know, they're like, why are my legs running? Well, you're not, you're working your knees more than your fucking muscle. You know what I mean? Like it's just lower the weight, do full range of motion and take that bitch all the way to failure. And that's just how you grow. And now that I've done, now that, I remember it was a full range, I guess, and either until I started doing more like the RP style training, which I like to. And I have no joint pain ever. Like yeah, I honestly feel the best. And I think it's where a lot of people act is they try to go too heavy. And it's a short range. And that's why they're all bolstered. That's why they're knee-served. That's why it is, so it is. I have learned, like people, I got posted a video with, I think, will Friday. I was leg pressing. And I had four pleats. And I, I remember a couple of people talking some shit. Yeah. That was an arsenal leg presser. Have you regardless? But that was, if you watch how I execute how deep I fucking go, I paused in the hole. I sort of like, that four plates of time, that's the heavy fucking shit if you do it right. And by the time I was done that set, my legs were so pumped. I'm like, I'm good here. You know, I don't, I'm a one. You know, I think in the defense of, and I don't want to defend the trolls, so I'm gonna be wrong. But in defense of the people who don't get it, I think that it's difficult for a lot of people until you spend a lot of time in the gym and really kind of, I don't want to say, master intensity, but actually learn it, because it's such a, I've said this time of time again. It's not as much physical as it is, metal. And I think a lot of people really can't go there. They can't get that in. You gotta go to a dark place to read it. That's what I'm saying. You're has to be, it's almost like there has to be some type of childhood trauma. They take you. Really, I mean, I mean, I just, you have to find something that either angers you. I can, I call it control chaos, because anger doesn't work well. I do too. I'll do stupid shit. Well, and actually, for what do you say that? I don't work, so I might be called weird for this. I don't work off anger. I work better off sadness, so to speak. Like I like to listen to songs that actually make me think about things that make me very emotional and upset and not angry. And that's probably how I perform the best. No kidding. Nice. Yeah. And that's not silly at all. Those are those things and everybody has those things. It's whether we talk about them or anybody asks us about them really, because everybody has, I think, those motivators. Let me, let me, if you guys don't mind, and keep asking questions. But I do have one more that I think is important. Where, when was it? Because I'm sure it was like told to you or kind of you were advised or given advice us. But when did it, I clicked with you that you thought, OK, I'm going to really slow my, like I'm going to really focus on these mechanics. I'm going to slow these motions down. I'm going to pull the weight back considerably. And I'm going to dig into the intensity because just like you said, and getting the trolls come out with the four plates and things like that, they had to be some tri-think. It's some transition at some point where you thought, OK, I'm going to give this a try. So I'm wondering why. And then, obviously, you saw that it was incredibly effective. And I always laugh about the troll because nobody who trolled you could ever touch you and leg size. But yet they're going to try to get you for four plates. I need to, it's just laughable. Well, it's funny, because then we some people in the comments, so we like, well, I guess this means you don't need to have plates on a leg press to give big legs. You know what I mean? There's something I'll be able to do. That no. But it's not wants to sit through my breath. I think it was a couple. I think it was when, specifically, what me and Matt start to work together. He really much revamped my entire training to pretty much exactly what I do now, so to speak. Yeah. Very, very tense. Slow down the isetrics. They explode up. But I guess as time went on from, because we started back in 2018, from that as time went on, I was always known for the controlling of the movements and growing really, really, really heavy. But I still had a lot of legging parts. And I think that's because even though it looks super, super controlled, I'm still not connecting with the proper muscle, because it's still the way I'm using it, still too heavy for me. Even though it looks like it's right. So it wasn't until probably last year, really, so I started working with my friend Jared with some training tips, who's part of the RP method. And he's like, we need to lower that weight more. And you're going to go full range and pause for a second, and then explode up. Nice. And then it started to make the more sense, because now I felt, like for example, we'll just say flat dumbbell. Once I started to do that, I felt nothing but the pack now. I felt barely any tri-step involvement, any front dumbbell. It was just that all directly. And I'm like, it just sounds super from me being so experienced in a game. But I'm like, oh, shit. Like is this? Was this what I've been missing this whole time? And it's like now doing that type of fashion with a durian aids intensity. My body, again, has just just takes off. And I just think for New York, for the LMPA, it's every resistance. It's going to be inevitable. I remember you saying that all the way back to, I think it was like 2019, was that the year you turned pro-19? No, I should have, but no, 2020 I did. 2020. We did the road to the North Americans. And I remember you saying that working with Matt, you were reducing your volume. And at the time, it was funny because I remember people trolling you in the comments. You said, I'm getting less issues with my joints doing less volume, but pushing harder. And people are like, that doesn't make any sense at all. He's lifting heavier weights. You know, blah, blah, blah. But it comes as how you lift it. Yeah. And Matt was a very big advocate. And I'm glad he told me all that because that really, again, revamped my entire look into training. Because the thing is, if volume was the answer, why aren't we doing like 10 sets on a sexual size 20 sets? 12? Yeah. And they're 30. Why? Going up and volume. That's, you know, I mean, in 10 cities, the answer. So if you can get all you need out of one set, shouldn't that be enough? You know what I mean? And that's, I learned it like what legs. Like for example, Friday, I did one set. I'm big on rest poses too. I think rest poses are awesome. So all I said, shins, I did one set of rest balls set. I did 20 reps. The leg press was one set into a rest balls. And then I did Hacksquad, which was one set to a rest balls. And that was it. And how long do I take things? And I do hamstrings in the same day as well. So I did see it blindly curl. Same thing. One set, rest balls, see the like curl, same thing, one set, rest balls. And then I just ended with two sets of Bulgarians, Swiss Quads. Not so failure, just kind of put some blood in there, pump it up, isolate a little more. How long did that whole workout take you? How do curiosity? Legs, that was hour 15. OK. So because I just want to point that out, you still have those warm ups. You're not just jumping right into that. And I beg I beg I beg I beg I beg I beg I beg I beg I beg I beg I beg I beg I beg I beg I beg I beg. Like longer rest periods. Like okay. OK. Before I jump into like a really well-eat, hard set, I will take a good like three to four minutes to be honest. And you're going to crank that song, God. What? I'm not keeping up with music as much nowadays, but I still have to ask. You said you want to think about those sad memories and stuff, the things that really get you through. I know what's going to go to for the most part of the lesson. I'm in that, OK. Yeah. There we go. I was thinking journey open arms, but whatever. I mean, that's a good one. Yeah, whatever works for me. And I'm a comic comic comedian. But we're going to get it. If we've provided value to you today, then please consider contributing to our show. You can help support the show through Patreon. Every $5 helps to pay for the software in the hardware, and everything else that goes into making a podcast. You can also contribute by using our code at True Nutrition. True Nutrition has been our title sponsor for several years. Now, I'm super grateful for them. And I've believed in true nutrition supplements long before they sponsored our programming. You could use our code, thank for health supplements and performance supplements. Feel free to hit me up if you have any questions. And if you're in Canada, check out supplementsourst.ca. They have free shipping over $99. Huge discounts on overstock, short dated, and label change products. Plus, they have all your normal supplements, too. Basically, I have two camps. This is just to take a little cheap shot at the listeners. You have two camps. You have the one camp that says, oh, next on the huge, because you can get away with that, because he's genetically gifted. He picked his mom a dead cracker. Which part? I, that's cool. There's a little bit of that. Yeah, I mean, I love my favorite. There is no question. There's no question. I'm genetically gifted. There's no question. Yeah, and you've never even never denied that. Yeah, sure. No, but that's what. But they take, there are things you can always do, genetically gifted or not, to improve even more. And so if I can do it, genetically gifted or not, so can anybody else. And I believe that. Yeah, then that takes a number two camp, which is exactly what you're saying. The other number two camp are the deniers, where they need to, they've got the information in front of them, because they've got you doing it. Now, oh, so I should focus, I should make sure that I train within my recovery. I should be careful of my joints, so that I'm actually hitting the target muscle instead of burying my front doubts while I'm trying to do dumbbell presses that are literally too heavy for me, because my ego, I can't check my ego at the gym. And just focus on those people that can't getting bigger by maximizing their recovery and slowing things down, hitting the target muscle versus going in there. And of course, being able to post a video of doing four or five reps that are questionable with an inclined dumbbell press so that they can, you know, put up the biggest numbers, you know, they put up in the mouth. So you have those two camps. One of them works. The other one has repeatedly shown time and time again for ever that the results are mediocre at best. So figure out what camp you're in. I'm in the know ego camp now. Exactly. No question. And the other thing, I'm sure there are some people saying, well, he still trains really heavy because you do have that strong base. You know, people don't think it to that level like that. They're trying to build them. The other thing, my strength versus somebody else's strength is to me, it's irrelevant. It doesn't matter. Like you're strong in your way. I'm strong in my way. Just because I live the certain way, it is, you know, it is, can I could I lift heavier? Perhaps the fucking literally. Do I need to know what is it still heavy for what I'm doing? Yes. Like for example, there was this kid at the gym, at the gym I go to. There was this peck fly machine. It was really cool machine. He was used at, he had like 45s on each side. And this is a heavy flying machine. And he had a 45s on each side. And I said, I need more sets of y'all. He goes, I got like two or three more. I said, can I jump in? And he's like, yeah, sure. Let's talk for four. He can jump in. Yeah, right. I said, you need, and he's like, you need more weight here. I said, no, I'm good. And I did my set 10 reps. He goes and does his set. And watching him do it. Everything moved, but it's chest. And I'm not the guy to say anything, because I don't want to offend anyone. Yeah, yeah. And then, and so one more point, he said, are you sure you don't want more weight? I said, okay, okay, I'll hear you. I said, are you sure you don't want to lower the weight? Yeah. And he said, what do you mean? I said, everything moved on your body, but your chest. I said, watch me. So I did my set. And I got up. I said, you saw how everything here moved, nothing else. And he was like, well, yeah, I said, well, when you did it, your chest moved zero. Nothing. You didn't contract it, bit. I said, so why about we lower the weight now? So he lower the weight for 25 on each side. That was still too heavy. I had this one before I go to 10s on each side. And do a couple of things. And I said, how is your chest feel? He said, I actually, I got a pump. I said, okay, do you understand what I'm saying? Weight is irrelevant. I said, drop your eco. You come in here to work out to make improvements. What you were doing does nothing for you at all. And I watched him briefly for the rest of his work out. He took the advice. So I thought that was kind of cool. He was probably wrecked the next day too. But. Whatever. He was the guy throwing you about the plate. I mean, cool. He was like, yeah, I didn't sit. He was on the phone. He was going, I don't know. The spark of things he knows everything. And he told me, lower the weight. Fuck this guy. I want to get you. He doesn't want me to get big. Yeah, he said to keep the secrets. That's what it is. I lived in a light. Fuck it. I got something for you. Complete kind of related kind of not related. I saw one of your posts. It was your shot recent mere shot, right? You hold your phone up. And somebody obviously doesn't follow you. He says, is this guy nanny? Yeah. I get that. Ha. Ha. Now, you said earlier the show too. You're like, listen, I don't care anymore. I'm just going to say whatever I want to say. So you're at this point where you're like self-actualized. I don't think that anybody could say anything. And anyone that's going to hurt you, right? Looks at me and says, I'm nanny. Lacks some serious intelligence there. Oh, yeah. But with the trolls, like I don't think there's anybody, even can say anything that's going to hurt you at this stage of the game. There's a lot of guys out there. There's a lot of people. You guys have been following my entire career. But there's nothing at this point that I haven't heard. That's just going to bother me, honestly. Is that what it is? It's time because there's a lot of guys at the other end where like, man, I love the pros and more. And it's like, when I first, like, when my name started to get first known, yeah, and I got what's in a lot of heat, I didn't understand why. And I got to me. I didn't understand it. But now I just realized it's part of the game, it's part of the sport. Like you're never going to be perfect for anybody. And you have to accept that. Like you could be Mr. Olympia for fucking 10 years in a row. Guess what? People are still going to talk shit. It is what it is. You just have to just take it and roll with it. Sometimes I respond when I'm taking a shit and just for shit. And I have fun with it. I don't like, what are you supposed to say? I usually ignore them. But there's some around like, oh, this is a good one. Let me. It's more of a comedic thing for you, right? It's not like, it's really. This guy's burning. I need my back. Yeah, I've learned the order of God. It's like the majority of the people that are talking all the shit. They don't know me. They never met me. They don't serve any relevance in my life. They don't know who goes on day to day. And 10 times out of 10, they're going to see you in person and not going to say shit. Exactly. You're going to picture. Yeah, yeah. I don't know. It is what it is. Do you think that was so far to say it's society. It's not even really the sport because you see it. I mean, I feel like several of them do it to get a reaction because there was a time years ago, I responded to somebody. And he met me back. He was like, bro, I didn't think you were going to respond. Oh, God. Yeah. You think that's your talk of shit, bro? Exactly. That, uh, Sam sent just made that post recently. And he was like, I can't believe the negativity. I'm getting, you think that's just because he's maybe newer at the sport. He's not used to getting that same. Sam's been kind of had what I think I believe I had, which I don't want to say is that quick success, but it was like a quick rise. Absolutely. Yeah. Like, so he doesn't, he was, but he also never doesn't come from this body building industry. He kind of just kind of got into it. So I don't think he understands why he's getting shit, why he's getting negativity. But just like me, you're going to have to learn like this. It just comes with a sport, man. Like, it is what it is. You got to take it for what it is. And just honestly, I embraced it because if they didn't talk shit about me, then I have no relevancy. You know what I mean? Yeah. So I enjoy it. Just say whatever fucking you want, man. Any publicity is good publicity in my opinion. Yeah. Now. Well, going into this year's Olympia and after, you know, last year's Olympia. What's been the focus for your physique? I mean, because you loved your physique last year. You thought you were right there. In your mind, you're like, I'm winning this thing. There's no one coming close to me. After you got, you know, you got the swelling come down the hamstring, you showed Matt some pictures, you got back into the offseason. What was the goal this offseason for? What do you want to bring up? It was honestly, it was just continuing to do what we did last year. You know, not push food too hard, just enough to feel good, making improvements, not overdo it. And just continue to keep training the same because I felt like the improvements that we have were making from the Arnold at the time to what I was going to show up to Olympia was pretty drastic. In my opinion, I was going to weigh relatively about the same though from what I weighed at the Olympia versus Olympia. I was going to be around 255-ish, just a lot harder, leaner, and I think bigger. So technically, there wasn't much change that we wanted to do just continuing to do what we did. And that's what we did. Like right now, I'm like 280-281-ish, and I'm a lot leaner now than I've ever been at 280-281-ish. And I just think that applies the only thing I've done different, I guess, is the amount of days that I trained. I trained four days a week. I guess, so to speak, when I was in prep for the Arnold or Olympia, I was doing kind of like a push pool leg type of deal. But I also felt like that might have been too much for my body. And with doing that style in particular, I did try days a week, but training everything twice a week, so much who the grader felt was taxing. And with that style, they, especially R.P., they like to do like reps and reserve, which I think serve a great benefit. I do. The only way you can do reps in a verb of my opinion is if you know how to take a sense of the ultimate failure. Thank you. That's, I think that's not negotiable. That being said, I don't know how to do reps in reserve because I only know how to live with it. Like I don't know, like I don't know what if I stop. I don't know if I have one more or two more or three more. Like I just, I would rather just go. And no, the counter failure is done for me. Yeah. So I think all of that, I just, it taxed me a little harder than normal. So again, I just applied both methods. And I went over this with Matt, I said, look, bro, I'm going to train the R.P. type of style to where everything is full range, pause in the hope and they're buying. I'm going to train four days a week during the eight split, his intensity and let's see how it goes. And he was on board. He loved, that's specifically how Matt loves the train. So, and that's what I love about Matt too. Like we now, like Matt, we always did, but we, like, I think our relationship is definitely on better with a past year. But we communicate better than ever. Like, and he's one of those coaches for me specifically that, like, he listens to what I say. And we imply it. And if he doesn't agree, he tells me. And he says, well, let's try this way for a little longer. This way, for a little longer, we'll see how this goes. But he always takes my feedback and he consideration. Because he knows, for me, if I say something, it's because I mean it. It's not like, sometimes, second guest you do what they want to question you. You know what I'm saying? He knows if I have something to say. It's for a specific reason. We apply it. We see what happens and we go for it. And so I remember when I finally decided to do New York. I said, look, I think we should still train four days a week. What do you think? And he's like, yeah, let's write it out for as long as we can. And at this point, like, my body feels the best and several fell. I'm eating more food than I think I've ever had at this point into a prep. Digestions where it needs to be. Body feels great where it needs to be. And I'm just hoping, again, we just walk into this New York show together and just dominate it. You see that message, Scott? You got him. Andrew had texted Skip a little bit ago and he said, Skip, think of five questions for Nick. And Skip says he's got him. So we've got this thing, Skip likes to do where he asked five fun questions and Nick your perfect. Okay. Perfect victim for this segment. Now I feel bad because I understand him instead of Scott. I have my glasses on and I didn't see that. Sorry, Andrew. Anyway, okay, you ready? Growing up, pre-body building. Were you choir, violin, band or were you baseball, football, soccer? They play soccer now. It's going to all because we didn't have soccer in school. Were you sports or were you, were your extracurriculars, were your other, come on. It's like, nice spot. Fort related. I know the answer to the song. Actually, didn't play sports in high school. No kidding. Out. Okay. I played on. I was younger before high school and I played baseball for a soccer. What position baseball? First base and pitcher. Okay. No, shit, pitcher. Okay. You missed four. I got huge man. I could actually throw a baseball. You missed that. You missed that. You guys remember Mike Alscott, Tampa Bay running back? Yeah. That would have been Nick. That would have. Just off. You run over to you. I actually was, I played for football. I did play middle line back here in the football back. Think of that. Looking over, just being back, just going on man, I got to run that three. So I've got to be kidding me. I'm going on. I love the bris. Look at it. It was my favorite. All right. One thing no one knows about you that's non-body building related, whether it be like a hobby or something that's not related to lifting everything is and setting them down. I like the right poems. You can't really. That's cool. All right. Dang man, now I'm going to have to, like next time you're on, we're going to have high coos by. High coos by Nick. What's the daily high in the club? Number three, cats or dogs. Don't say the wrong answer. Oh, thank you. Oh, god. Fair enough. I think cats. I'm a cat guy, man. I got wild. I have a cat. Gross. Skip those cats. You know, the wonder if you need a license for. So that's those cats. You wonder if you need a license for. He's got that. Oh, all of day, bro. Yes. We don't have kids. So don't say more like kids. What you have kids and they leave you're like, I want low maintenance. I don't want to have to take. So if you, because I mean, we raised four kids. That was a work right there. So I think that's a real job. I think that's a real job. That's a real job. That's a real job. Take it a dog out of the pain. Yeah. You're proud to. You walked down any urban area where there's high rises and you just smell the dog here and all of it. The sidewalks, especially when it rains. It's horrible. But anyway. Okay, real job. Not professional body builder being played. Getting paid to play video games. But if you had to have a real job like you just had shitty genetics like me. What would your real job be? What would you have? Would you been like an accountant, cop? You know, I always wanted to be a cop. No kid. Okay, so we have a little. Yeah, and then I broke a lot of compliments. They said I couldn't do it. Whatever. What else? Rose, you're stupid. Sometimes. Anyway, a dream car money doesn't matter. It does matter. You just have an endless supply. You're a chic and a co-weight or something. Oh, for already. Nice. Specifically anything or just any for our. It's always for us. It's always for us. Nice. Last one, no calories. This is your breakfast. It doesn't count. They don't. It doesn't count. What do you eat for breakfast? I'm going to have probably double stock pancakes. Three blueberry muffins. Four servings of sourdough toast with jelly. A lot of jelly strawberry jelly. Let's see. Meat lovers omelets with extra cheese, extra bacon in there. And a side of home price. So we can't really say he's like a car free because he had that. We really have the omelet in there. So he's sweet and savory. You don't see anything like this. He didn't have to think about it either. He just. He's thinking more about the quantity than what it is. Yeah, yeah. You know. That's my favorite. That's my favorite. I could eat a shit ton of breakfast, bro. That's my favorite. Meat. He said pancakes. Not a French toast guy. No, no. I'm a pancake guy. Okay. How about pancakes? You got a girlfriend in your strength. It just wouldn't work. No, can't. No. How do you? Now I got to think with Riley Dusty. They're both in the waffles. Waffles or pancakes. I think I'm like a waffles. I'm the only pancake guy. Yeah. I'm right to the waffles. They like the waffles because they hold the syrup. They got the little. They do. That I can agree with. A pancake. It's up. Kind of goes dry. I see you. I'm still a team pancake all the way. Waffles. It is. I just kind of poured on. Take a bite. Poor moral. There you go. There you go. It's really proud. But that is next thing you know. The whole bottle's gone. And he just devoured. Got knows how much sugar. 5,000 grams of carbohydrates. Here's shit. How much insulin you taken with that? That's where I was going to bottle. He's going to bottle. He's going to bottle. Yeah. For real. I had to random one here from our listeners. Are you a fan of Italian like Palm? Palm is John. Is that something people would know? Yes. Because they ask you. They say chicken, veal or eggplant. Veal is actually really good. But I would still pick chicken farm. Okay. Does anybody really like eggplant farm? Like, yeah. And stable in your farm. No. And you use the thing. When you go to Italian restaurants and you see the prices and it's like chicken Palm, 26, 99, eggplant palm, like 26, 99. Why would I pay the same thing for a slice of friggin eggplant? That always bothered my mind when I see that. Yeah. You guys see the. You guys see Nick on stage at the Arnold classic. He's looking bigger than ever. You he had this you had this this gray shirt on and short sleeve. You know, all forget next walk it out there like the biggest guy on stage. It may be think I was I thought to myself as like did he take the time to think about What shirt will make me look biggest when I walk out. Everybody. I just packed that shit. They did. I'm still in bad for. We all do that. I was feeling bad for Guy's sister. You know, it'd have to be on stage with a man. Yeah. I was like, Oh, shit. Because I'm like, I say to Nate because me and Ader sit in your watching it together. And I'm like, man, that little guy next to Nick looks like he could have been like, Guy's sister. No, they were like, Oh, my gosh. That is guy's sister. Oh, God. Oh, yeah. Guy got a long neck now. What was your highlight at the Arnold? Like the whole thing to show or like the whole weekend. Honestly, like, you know, I love to do the Arnold. So, you know, being there, you know, I was always puts you in certain mood. But it was nice to actually kind of be a spectator for a little bit. But it was really cool to actually do a, you know, the mean greets and kind of just be more involved, more engaged. And actually listen to people hear people stories. And I actually thoroughly enjoyed it because normally like, you know, I'm, I'm, I'm doing these shows. So you're kind of like, you know, yeah. But being actually happy smiley being able to really talk to people. I actually thoroughly enjoyed it. I love that. You guys go out eating a good food, New Year there. No, man, I'm not proud. Oh, you're going to say, I'm good. I didn't know if you, I didn't know if you got any kind of like, keep meals or anything like that. I do you ever do cheap meals or you just like 100% on playing all the time. How's that work? Well, we do, but right now, I just, I just, I like to do this higher card. Okay. So just keep in it clean. Yeah, unless he feels like you need one, like, your, your, your body's moving too far. Anyone, then I'll do it. Yeah. But I like, I like, I just feel better off higher clean food to be honest. I think that's the mark of an experienced champion competitor. Like, you no longer let your desires of like, man, I really would enjoy a burger right now. Instead, you're, you're mentally making decisions of like, well, what's going to benefit me the best? Yeah. What's going to refill glycine? Yeah. Like, I'm not looking for them to be like, unless he, unless Matt truly felt it was like, necessary, like I said, if we did a couple, you know, a high card day or something, and I ended up losing weight. And he's like, you know what, like, I want you to a high day, and I think a burger is really going to help you hear something. Then yeah, sure, why not? But like, if we're refeating body response, well, we're going to roll just, just keep going what you're doing. I don't, I never, it's funny. I don't really crave food unless, you know, obviously, I need it. You know what I mean? Like, once you eat it, you just want more and more and more. Yeah. And so I honestly just, I'd rather not. Like I said, that's a mark of an experienced competitor. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And because how many times you guys get in your check-ins where you're like, all right, let's do a high day today, add an extra 300 grams of carbs, and you get a response back like, I think I think it'd be hard to get 300 grams of carbs in, but I could definitely fit a burger in. I could definitely do that. That's like, that's, that's the weak, you know what I mean? That's what I say. Yeah. I just ignore those reals and delete them. And also, my, my opinion, the reality is, you know, if your body is that much, you're going to go spot. If you, you know, increase your high day by 300, 400 grams of carbs across the day, it should be relatively easy in my opinion, because I know for me like, that when we do a higher day of carbs, the more carbs I eat, the hungry, I just get. Yeah. So, you know, this is, you're not in the off season. You know what I mean? Like, where it's, you see a lot of food, you know, I got shit. You know, when he, and I get a high day, I'm like, fuck, gay, bro. But I also know, I'm just going to get hungry here in the hungry area, you know, so, you know? Absolutely. What do you think of Hardy? Do you think he was better than the other thing? Absolutely. Yeah. Right. Was that without a doubt, man? He, he, him, I don't know what they did differently. They did anything different for that matter, but so I just continued to die it. But he, he, he, it was, it was clear as day for me. It was clear as day. I think the biggest thing I saw was complete of domino control. Yeah. One hundred, three hundred, six degrees, like every shot. There was no distinction whatsoever. You didn't see that. You didn't see it slip once, man. Yeah. That one's. Yeah. Yeah. I quarter-turning movement, like it was, it was just locked in, boom. You know, you know, not that I thought that Samson was even close to his conditioning. Or I thought Hardy was clear number one, and Samson was a distant number two. But even that distinction that Samson had when he was transitioning or even in the aventhyde, just a little bit of turtle shell, I feel like Hardy exposed the hell out of that, just being so tight in midsection on top of his dryness on top of his conditioning. I think they nailed it, hundred percent. Green. And that's an eye-catching. I saw that in person. You could see even though Samson had that narrow waist, you could still, you could see it compared to Hardy. Yeah. That's, that's what we could understand. Like Samson doesn't have a wide waist. He's, he's just having trouble controlling it. And I don't like to speculate and know what him and Milo's do. I'm sure we can all come to inclusion there. But I just think maybe try the opposite, whatever it is that you're doing, because I personally believe that Samson can come and peel, like peel peeled. Yeah. That's going to be really, really hard to be as well. That's shame. I don't think anyone's going to question that. Yeah. It will see. But I mean, he's working with his wife's going to help him. I don't know what that means. That's right. Now we work so. So we'll see what happened. You know, I don't know what their approach is. Obviously, I don't really know how they operate together. Yeah. And I hate to say, like, we'll see how he looks at the UK, because they started working together, like, for a week and a half before the show. Yeah. Right. But so he's either going to look in my opinion. I don't think he's going to look worse. I think he's either going to look the same or in my opinion, touch tighter. Yeah. Well, if I was him, I would have skipped the UK and gone to Brazil. So you have a little bit of extra time for his wife or in him to get together. Because I feel he needs to just get that next level conditioning. And I just don't feel like there's enough time. Especially with that video, we put up about how his body felt like it was family. And he probably had some meals after the show had the flight back home. He was probably up 10 pounds by the time he got back. And he was like, okay, you know what I mean? And like, and you know, like, that doesn't just come off like the next day. It usually takes two or three weeks. That's it. That's it. And then, so yeah, let's say, let's see, you get home Thursday is basically where you might be back to ground zero. And they have a week and a half really to push for conditioning. If that before you're out of start thinking about filling back out again. So I just don't know with his body type, but there's enough time to make those improvements. And that's why I'm saying, I would have opted to take the UK off. Even though it's in his backyard. And maybe done the Brazilians dead to give himself the best shot to bring a better package, personally. Yeah. I don't disagree. I don't disagree. But I think what I think he wanted to do the UK because it was a short break. No. The in between two shows. And I honestly think my man just he wants a break man. I think he needs to take some time. Honestly, you know, that could be another issue for all we know. His body just might, if I'd be responding, you know, not as smooth right now. You know? I just think he needs a break to give vacation and relax for a little bit. I think it's my dog everything. Yeah. Well, what if it is in what if it was like saying insulin thing? I mean, that's something. I would do it. I would do it. I would use insulin for this one. It could be cleaned up real quick, right? And if there's anybody who, like, if if if if if you were to call you, Andrew and he was like, hey, Andrew, would you help me? You don't have any idea what's going on. But you know his wife has watched every day. Every, she's probably the best person to step in if that's how to step in, you know? Yeah. Yeah. But I'm going to still go back to, I don't think it was just insulin. I think I need to get to that next level condition, the kind of conditioning Nick brings, the kind of conditioning, the hotty brings to be able to be in that conversation of clear cut number one he's winning the show outright, you know? I mean, on paper, he's the guy that should win this next show, right? Yeah. He's y'all on favor. But I mean, I'll tell you who looks really good though, is a keen. Oh, he's incredible. Yeah. What did you get to his look at the Arnold? I think so. I wasn't there for prejudging, but when I saw him come out for finals, I said, oh, shit. I said, a keen was good boy. I said, finally, you know? Same. But see that's what a keen has been missing. You know, like a keen can easily win shows, like the math thing going nowhere, my friend, like you need to just be peeled. And I think now, I don't know, now he's working, and I think with Chris Cito now, I think whatever they're doing, it's working, you know what I mean? So I think, you know, if he stays on this road here, he can be dangerous, you know? He looks fantastic. I didn't see pre-judging either, but finals. And then people around me were clamoring full of people. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I felt like that was such a dick tease too, when they put him in that final four, and then pulled him back out when it came down the placings. I thought that's such a dick tease to do to him, you know? And I guess I don't know where he was for prejudging. I felt like he was like in the six, you know? He was in like the six positions. Yeah. But I think what they do is, you know, it's a two day show. They literally judged it for I day, and they judged it Saturday, and they average at scores. They didn't go with that last season impression. Where is like maybe the one in two guys, if it was a battle on Friday, they're going to go with whoever looks better on Saturday night. But I think in the situation where with the team at being six or fourth, they took the scores, and they added them average them up, and said, nope, he falls in that fifth or sixth position. That's exactly what they did, because that's what happened to James, but the opposite. He was a higher and then lowered, and then they split that. Yeah. I was very impressed with John. Oh yeah. Yeah. I was really impressed with Rafael. My opinion of Rafael is I think that was his overall best package today. I don't think he was his most conditioned look to date, but I think overall it was his best look to date. I think he just looked tremendous. He's doing Brazil. He's got a lot of time to bring that conditioning even more. I'm not really excited to see how he looks there to be on it. I'm being excited to see that too. That was the only thing I had was I felt like when they turned around, he wasn't quite as sharp as I would have liked to have seen him. But the amount of mass he's put on over the past few years is incredible. It's so funny though, because you had said that, Scott, that you weren't very happy with his conditioning, especially from the back, whereas on the video. And this is why you got to be there in person. People say pictures or they video, you got to be a shows in person. Yeah. Because in the video he looked, I thought John Delaroads had the best conditioning from the back, based off the video. Like every detail was in. He looked really good. But I would say very close to that. It looked like Brandon was right there. Where Scott's telling me in the text messages like that. I didn't see it. I didn't see it. I'm a fan. Don't get me wrong. I'm not trying to hate it. And this is why I always say, like, you go with the people that were actually there in the audience. Like the videos don't show the real detail. They can make someone look better or worse. Pictures same thing. You got to be there in person to really get a hundred percent accurate to assess him with him. Yeah. On another note, how about a video. Have you seen the pictures of a video? I got to see how it looks on stage. I feel like the pictures are showing the best condition we've ever seen. I've always thought it's conditioning and kind of suck personally. Yeah. What's he saying? Is that the guy you told you earlier today, Andrew? Oh, he's doing Brazil too. Yeah, yeah. He's incredible in the pictures. Yeah. Very complete now. Yeah. And it's conditioning, at least from the pictures. Looks much better than we've ever seen at least in pictures. So. Where's those? You're pretty competitive here. I think it'll be good. There's not no Tonyo just jumped in. Okay. Nice. Hmm. Well, I got a question for you. Would you think about horse? Biggest disappointment. Yeah. I agree. And I was riding high on him. I was riding high. He looks so good in this picture. So good. Oh, dude. Yeah. If you notice, he never showed up extra. Hmm. I hate to use the word for a pro, but soggy. He was a little bit. I thought. I thought. I just like. Well, I know me and I even have to know. I know math. Like we would never go on stage. And I was like, what was happening? You know what I mean? Like we, he would look me dead in a face and be like, No, bro. We, we got to do another show here. Yeah. I also felt like. Well, I was like, the. Posing could have been a lot better to in my opinion. I felt like he. I felt like it almost felt like he didn't know how to control the muscle. Super well. And you know what I think what was though is like, once you know, you don't look good. Yeah. Your body just, like, your body just falls. You're. You're. Yeah. Your body, you don't hit your poses as crisp as you were. Like, all right, put an example. When, when Nick came out at the Arnold Classic that he won, you knew you look so good. You came out and you just hit those shots and held them for like five. Yeah. Six seconds. You're like, give me the praise. Give me the adulation. I know I look good. So like, the. The economy of the knowing that you're on can just like make you look in feel better and then perform better. And that's a good point. Yeah, man. And I think that's. I think posing what confidence is what makes the tremendous difference in my opinion. It's like, you know, even with even for him. Like, it's, it's, it's, it's, you know, it's hard to do it, but it's easier to say it. But like, you know, you're like, shit. Just pose like you're the shit anyway, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Are you. Are you. Are you. Are you. Are you. Are you. Yeah. Yeah. It is what it is. You know, so if you still showed that confidence, I. It, you're still going to get your applause. It's the Arnold Schwarzenegger effect. No matter what he looked like he came out like he was a winner every time. Come out there smile. Hit them pose like you mean it, boy. No matter mean that shit. Yeah. Yeah. Please. Just please. That ass. Sorry. You know what we're talking about posing. I've seen a few guys notice this trend lately of like these amateur and amateur posing coaches. They'll make these videos of some of the top pros and they'll break down their posing as if they're doing everything wrong. Have you seen that trend lately? No, I know you see it. I know you see it. I like you. Nick Walker moves feet differently. He can't watch much. Like he doesn't have a posing coach or he doesn't pose with Matt. Every day. Working on these little things that make his ad. Doctors look a little bit better or his ads look a little bit tighter. It boggles my mind. People have these opinions and they think that their opinion needs to be voiced to break down top pros. It just goes very, very nice. Yeah. They do it for the attention, you know. The third thing to go to. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. We got anything else guys. I mean we could just shoot the shit all day. Yeah. Yeah. I know. You training today Nick? No, I took off today Wednesdays and Saturdays and Sundays and Tuesdays. I get bodywork done on Wednesdays and Sundays. Nice. That kid that you helped in the gym. I got to say he you probably made his year, man. Just so you know. And as a fan of. I do have a lot of all helping people. I think it's the coolest thing. Only when they listen, obviously though, but like when you see people, like take your advice, it actually apply it, it listen to it. And then you know, it feels good because a lot of the times I'll get DMs or messages and say, hey, you know, I did what you did and it made a tremendous difference. There is like that's such an amazing cool feeling. Like because you don't you don't think like you get into this bodybuilding industry. And you're you're so goal said on just winning winning winning. You don't realize how many people like you actually motivate and inspire. Yeah. You know, so like that because like that's not like you're objective of why you're doing what you're doing, right? Like that's not wish or first thought was. Let me bodybuilding inspire people. I know what fucking things that. So when it happens, you're like, oh, shit. Yeah. When it happens, you're like, oh, shit, like this is fucking awesome. Like so anyone, you know, I love helping people. I think it's the coolest thing. I do. I have no problem taking time out of my day or even stopping my work out for a hot second to explain something that anyone. Yeah, I got one. I'd carry you bother Nick and the gym. Yeah. But I've got to do a proper calf freeze and how to use your bleaks. Yeah, that's not, that's not the guy who did pick a mild. It's for free charge. Yeah. No cost, no cost. I will ask one more here because it was one of our patriens guys and I, I already know how I think all three of us would answer in Nick, but he asked, what helped you to become more disciplined? And what helped? Because my father is just like, we do it because we love it, but I want to hear from you. I mean, I loved lifting, I guess, before I ever loved competing. And I actually had no desire to ever compete, but everyone told me, well, I was in high school, I should probably compete. So I did my first show, like really right out there, high school, and I loved it. And that exceeded any outside noise, anything to distract me. Like, we all know what to say. You sacrificed so much for a frapp, like you miss family events, you miss family or friend outing, you miss so much for this one specific goal, but I didn't care because I knew. Even then, when I was a skinny little shithead, I knew I was eventually going to become Mr. Olympia at the age of 17 years old. So that was the only thing I ever truly focused on. And that was what kept me disciplined. And I just made a fucking video on this about between motivation and discipline. And anyone who says they're motivated, 365, 24, 7's fucking line, like your voice shit. But it's the discipline and consistency that keeps it going. There's mornings even, I wake up and I want to do this cardio and I fuck this. But you get to what? I got an angle, motherfucker. Like, I'm gonna get up and get this shit done. And then once I get it done, I feel better by myself. You know what I mean? So I just think if yours is very in tune or what you want to accomplish, discipline to my opinion should just be there. It is what it is, you know? I figured we all three would say that too. I mean, I would have played the other side just to be an ass, but what would you say, skip? I get angry with what he's saying. I think that the vast majority of the time discipline for most of us doesn't come into play. There are those days like makes that there's no question. But the vast majority of the time we just were so passionate about it, we're so, come on, of the four of us here, anybody listening, isn't the time in the gym itself, aside from the progress or anything else therapeutic? I mean, it is. The only time of my day that I have total control over everything, and no one can really fuck with me in the gym. I'm not going to change anything I'm doing. I'm not going to accommodate anybody. I'm not going to compromise. I'm just going to do what I'm going to do and everything is great. Then I go back to the other 22 hours of the day and I do a chance. I agree. But I also think it's just routine. Like I got my good cardio. Like I don't think twice about it. Right. You know what I mean? Like it's just it is what it is. Yeah. And I do cardio every morning, every morning I do cardio. Okay. And I love it. So it's every morning. I get up 20, 25 minutes right now. You 25 minutes and I do stairs. 25 minutes on stairs. And it starts my day. I feel great every day. It's a good way to let set things up, isn't it? Like you can start. I don't think I missed the day. Honestly, you know. Travel, you want to travel if I have to. I make sure I get it in somehow. Even at the Arnold. I was up at what? Four or five in the morning going to fucking approach gym. No, man. It was crowded, but it was and doing cardio. Yeah, that place was nuts, man. We went out of town to train. We went like took an Uber and went like 30 minutes away. Because it was like five minutes from where I was staying. Yeah. It was like, it was like, I remember Saturday. Yes, Saturday morning. It was like five. I don't know. I'm going to do cardio really fast. It's fine not pat yet. It's a fucking mental health. Oh, yeah. We, we pre-cuz it and they're working out. I might do what are you doing. Yeah. Yeah. You know how to get it in somehow. Like it's five in the morning, bro. Yeah. You see, um, downtown gym that's in the, it's like used to be a bank. I used, yeah, yeah, used to be the powerhouse a few years back. Yeah. But I mean, it was a bank, right? Cause then yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, great. Yep. I think the posing room was like where the Valk was and she was kind of cool. I don't know if it's been downstairs, but there's this like one room that looks, I don't think I've seen anything. There's only three or four pieces in there. Like a squat rack. It's just carry basement. It is. It is. It's kind of a candy get lost. Like I remember getting there. I don't know how to get out of here. I'm like this is amazing. It's a fucking maze down there. I got lost. I don't know. I just need a girl. Where's the bathroom? Where's the bathroom? Yeah. Yeah. Well, I know I'm not a very big guy, but I thought these, these hallways are narrow. I'm not a Nick muscle walking down the sideway. Sideway. Yeah. Yeah. That's it. That's it. All right. Well, listen, we appreciate your time, man. It is always a blast having you. Always. This is really cool. Thank you. This is one of my favorite podcasts. I don't process it. Still going to work to get your mom and your dad on them. Telling him, we're going to work. I'm going to work. I'm going to work. Unfortunately, I think they get them both on at the same time. We would have to be on a week here. Okay. My dad works over the week. So. Skip will make it worse. I just think they'd be a lot of fun to have on. Well, they especially were out next week and talk. And I can get it off. Oh, God. Get your mom to say some shit. She normally would. Yeah. That's fun. She would too. She would. Yeah. Hey, it's just get them on Saturday night when they've had a few road soldiers for. Yeah. It's a really. Feel white clouds. Yeah, right? People want to pick up and you that merchandise out of the the famous basement. How do they how do they find that stuff? What is it? Well, walk your nation clothing.com, I believe. Walk your nation clothing. I'll find that link. I will put it in the description. You guys go check that out. And they're already following you. They don't even know your Instagram. They're already following you. That's it. We'll put all that down there too. And listen, man. It's like I said, this has been a blast. It is always a freaking honor to have you hanging out with us, man. No, I appreciate it. I love when you guys have me on. So, when I have you guys when we come back, just let me know. All right. That's all. Guys for another episode of Blood Sweat and Gear with Coaches. Skip Hill and you bury myself. Scott McNeely. We are joined by Nick Walker and we will see you soon. Thanks guys.

If you had to walk around and spend your life trapped in the body of a current pro, Rieging Grimes would be a pretty damn good on the pick. You had to just spend your days strolling around the mall looking like Rieging Grimes. I wouldn't be upset by that. But not be upset. You had to just look like Rieging for the rest of your life. Could all this hair for crying all of a sudden. Full head of hair. Yes, it's feet tall. Yeah. You know, how tall is looking just six feet? Yeah, he's like six. My six foot half in. She's like my height. I don't know. Those hands on him. That just quarry with how I'm strings. You know, good. Hey, everybody. Welcome to It's Just Body Building. Big round parlor here with Dusty Han Shah. Is that Dusty? How hard is it? I'm Dustin. Mark Dusty. I'm Sean Dustin now. It's very dusty. You can't shop. I'm great at the feet too. And of course, the producer Scott and Sally Sameltscott. Same old Scott. Same old. There we go. Not any better. No upgrade. There you go. Not smarter like me. Yeah. And remember everybody, show sponsored by mutant. I am mutant.com. Use Code Dusty or Bigron. Go to I am mutant.com. Get your all and get your ice of surge. And everyone should get on the gear. Okay. What's going on? Dusty first of all. Oh, yeah. Take share, subscribe, comment, and bring the bell. You almost took away the only thing I have. I was so distracted. But you're so smart now. I was. You're still want to bring the bell. I was distracted by your brilliance. The bell ringing was a monkey task we gave you. It'd be happy. I still have that in me. So what's going on? Dusty has Spectacles. Yes. Spectacles. So the thing I wanted to open up with before we even touch on the New York Pearl is the amazing response we had for arguing why it was okay for Derek to win the Pittsburgh. Is that even what we said? I thought we just talked about the show. I thought apparently we were okay with it. Gaining either way. Ah. And that was close. Apparently we thought it was close. Apparently we thought it was a tie score. Right. It was. Which it was. But I wanted to point out reality hurt. And he's anyone who absolutely hates us for this reason. There are many. I mean, go watch Tyler Manion's breakdown of how they did it. Oh, and by the way, what I love that he did for those of you who did not see it was he was saying, oh, everyone was saying politics. Yeah. And he said, Nick has the biggest fan base in the world. Yeah. If we were doing politics, wouldn't Nick have won. Nick wins. And then he said also, isn't it a better story leading into the Olympia if Nick beats Derek? Right. When insult injury, he also said, I had Nick winning. Oh, where he go. And he said he was okay with it. And he said, oh, by the way, last year, Nick and Martin New York pro had Martin winning. Huh, and Nick won. Right. So that's what I really just thought. And he broke it down, posed for pose. He explained which pose he had which way, which poses he thought were a freaking coin flip. And he could totally find. He said there were only three poses that he thought someone won unquestionable. Oh, right. So I really urge you guys to go watch that because I think that he did an amazing job. And it's an I'm retired and I make really bad decisions in my entire career as far as I know what I want. I don't need to kiss ass. Go watch it and tell me you don't have a better understanding of how it went down. And the fact that your bias or your life, I mean, listen, I too thought Nick would win. And I have bias in the other direction because I was seen up. But I, to me, I was like, it's just too much. I think part of it is just people want their person to win, kind of like sports teams. Like I don't care what happened. I want the wings, you know what I mean? Yeah. Like when you say I hate me, you don't like 39 years. I've wanted the wings. I think one thing, I think with me, like I had a bunch of guys asked me like, what do you think, man, you think I ripped off? And I was like, eh, I don't know, let's close show. And they were like, yeah, they were like, oh, we were sitting on your wall. Yeah. I'm like, well, there was talk crazy guy that commented, who's about to get blocked? Because every time he commented, no, leave him. I like those guys. Leave him. I don't know. I just like, you're on the line. You're leaving talking about the powers that be, first of all, don't care about our show. They even know we have a show? No, probably not. And secondly, like, I think, I met that age and I've seen so much bodybuilding where I just don't care who wins. Like people were like expecting me to be like, oh, I know. And slept since the show. It slept inside decisions. Yeah. And I just like literally they announced the winner. And I was like, okay, well, actually, I remember you text us and you go, good show. That was a good show. Like, I have no, I don't give off. Who wins the shows? Like, I'm not emotionally invested in any of these guys. I think they're all awesome. My eye on. And then another thing too is I've been to so many freaking shows, man. Unless you're like, we say, unless you're sitting at the judges table, your opinion doesn't matter. That's true. I mean, what's the difference? And was that as close as it gets? Maybe that was one of the closest decisions we've ever seen in like the last 10 years. I don't know. We don't know. It was great though. I just don't care. After we took heat for our take on the show, which we said was close, where they always said, I got annihilated for saying that I thought Nick could win the Olympia. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I liked that. Which side do you want here? You already got 31. He's top 31. He's top 31. And he's an age group. I didn't say he was going to win the Olympia. I said, I think I have more faith that he could win it now than I did back then. That city was extremely dangerous. I'm so I watched that. I was like, okay, people just like to argue. Yeah, I know. The only thing that matters is hockey. So, you know what? The only thing that makes me happy about that whole debacle is that we got a lot of clicks and views. Oh, yeah, that was good. But we don't even try. We just accidentally say the odd thing once in a while that fits all the algorithmic stuff. Oh, this is God. Look how many views has got us. We just said something like not even controversial. Maybe I should watch the show again now that I have to try to do that more often. Yeah. Maybe I'll see it better. Yeah, we should try. Yeah. So, let's chat some new York pro. See if we can upset some people. Oh, I've got the lineup here. Actually give me a second. I did think there was much upsetting a New York pro. I thought that was pretty much the way most people thought it was going to go. See something unpopular around. I don't understand your support that day. Who's? I was. I thought he was better and Pittsburgh. You know, it was great actually. Um, I'm a friend of the gym who actually really knows bodybuilding. Okay. And he text me two things. He was like, Nick is smoking this show and Bonac will not go away. Oh, no. Yeah. And I was like, yeah. You understand everything I was watching. You know, if there's one more thing to say about the New York pro. What's that? If you had to walk around and spend your life trapped in the body of a current pro, Regangrimes would be a pretty damn good on the pick. Oh, absolutely. Yeah, to just spend your days strolling around the mall, looking like Regangrimes. Holy shit. I would be upset by that. But not be upset. Yeah, to just look like Regan for the rest of your life. Could all this hair for crying all of a sudden. Full head of hair. Yeah, yeah. Tall. Yeah. You know, it's a how tall. Good looking just six feet. Yeah, he's like six. He's like six. My six foot half in. She's like my height. I don't know. I don't know. It just just quarry with. Oh, I'm strings. You know, big everywhere. Beautiful structure. You know, I do watch. I do wish this day. And would be darker. That would help me. Yeah. I guess you could. Good. Can I put it up? Yeah. Great fact double. And a tank top all day. I wouldn't be a large walk around with them. Yeah. I just do wear my fancy watch. My fancy designer clothes. Yeah. I heard Jordyn's every day was Nick better here, guys. Yeah, I think he was a little better. I saw the back double comparison that was side by side. And they only know again, there's stage lighting differences and all that stuff too. And I thought he looked a little bit like I thought it looked like he had better oil on at the New York pro and his hands were popping more. But again, you're not sure if that's like stage light pop and whatever. And I thought that he was slightly better in New York and then bone act is just like bone act. I think he was better in New York also. Yeah. Yeah, he might have been a little tighter. Look at that back. Oh, four. How 3D it is. Like, I don't think of Bonnet because being like, oh, dude, he's got a crazy back. But we're standing next to Nick Walker who's a mass monster, right? And look at the three dimension that Bonnet cares on him. Well, plus you can argue now that Nick has the best or one of the best rear double ice ups in the sport. Yeah, the hamstring. The hamstrings are the craze. He is the biggest, thickest, craziest hamstrings. Look at the adductors. Yeah. I actually liked watching when Tyler put up the videos. He did the videos of them posing him and Derek. Yeah. And you could see when Nick would turn out the leg and squeeze the ham and then he'd hit the adductory. You actually watch it come out. Whoa, up close. It's like, slide to the middle. I just immediately think treadmill must suck for you. Yeah. And that adductors just hang in there. He's not flexing it. It's just, just, tensing the ham kind of pops it out. Yeah. Yeah. But Bonnet is so, yeah. He was awesome. Terrence, cannot even better. And so did. What was the second place guy? He peeled out of his head. I love that. I love that shot in Nick with the three rings. Oh, yeah. Yeah. That's awesome. And like, so happy for Nick. Oh, you know, obviously you want Nick to be in the Olympia. You want Nick to win shows Nick such a, like, I don't know, Nick's a great guy. I was a great guy. I was a great guy. He's always been nothing but awesome to us. And, you know, of course, hello to Nick's mom and Nick's dad. Yeah. They're always great. They stop buying. I'm sure they're just extraordinarily proud of him this year. Yeah. You know, he works real hard. So, I mean, I'm a fan of all these guys. You know, like, that's the thing when they see like, oh, you pissed off about this or that. I'm like, I don't like all these guys. They've all been really nice to me and they've all been cool. Like, they're super cool to me. Like, I last time I talked to Derek. I was sitting in a burger and he came up and sit still beside him for 20 minutes. We just chatted and last time I saw Nick he was super cool to me. Like, I haven't, you know, it's just, I just love seeing these guys put on such a crazy show and show up looking like this and take body building to this level. And, you know, bone act too. Bone act's an inspiration to like, yeah, everybody. I think what's great now. And we've discussed this a little bit. But for me, coming into body building in arguably the best era. And seeing the Ronnie Rain high. And, uh, he says hi. He saw your head. And, uh, Lisa was behind you this time. She's cut off. The, uh, I had that moment when they started to retire that I was like, oh, body building's over. It's, it's gonna, I mean, let's get it. It's gonna fall. Yeah. And I really do, even when Phil was winning, I felt like it wasn't competitive. So it didn't, it felt like a fall then. Um, and now it's back and I'm like, we're in the new, that era. Yeah. Only even better because we're going to the Olympia saying, there are at least three guys that could win the Olympia four sure. Yeah. You know what, too. Dusty that's kind of cool about this era is I feel like in say like the Ronnie era. Everybody was trying to be as absolutely full blown big as possible. Because they knew they had to keep up with Ronnie and they were trying to play his game. Versus, I feel like now we have so many different looks. Like, bonnicks playing his game. Nick Walker's playing his game. They're explaining his game and they're all coming in looking the best they can for themselves. Versus, you know, trying to be the best at something else. You know what? I think if Nick was competing in Ronnie's era, he would, and this isn't him. If I was in this camp, we'll, we'll re-frame that. So it's my fault. Okay. I would push him for more size. Oh, for sure. You're not big enough. You're not big enough. Dude, and his image would be Walker in that era. Yeah. But his physique would be worse. It could be because you can't, he doesn't need, I mean, I have no idea his dimensions, but he looks bigger now than he did before. And I think it's primarily because he's pulled in his midsection. The taper looks wider. Like, our his shoulders actually wider. I don't know, but they sure as shit. Look at it. Yeah. But I know. Okay. So on the opposite side of that, I'll say that the midsection wasn't as important back then either. And I think that yeah, there still wasn't element of like even if you couldn't be blocking that control. But you couldn't get blocked either. Like when Ronnie's stomach got big, it got bloated to the front. Yeah. But if it had a front double-wise up, it was still shoulders, lats. Yes. You could play the game, though. Like, I mean, look at Branch. Branch didn't have, by the end didn't have like, you know, slim proportions. He was an Arnold classic winner. Yeah. He was as nasty as you could get, you know. And I have to say that if it wasn't for being around, like, it's almost like Ronnie and then into fill that like, jay was there. There's all those really big, big dudes. Maybe Branch would have been prettier if it wasn't for, you know, the era. But what he had been branch, you know. Yeah. Yeah. I guess just definitely changed the sport. I'll go to see it, you know. You know, it does change things that changes your approach. But I love what's happening. And it's got me back to excited. Like I've told you guys many times, like, I'm going to the Olympia. I'm going to watch the show. And there's been many years and people are going to be mad. They're wrong. And I have went to eat instead. Yeah. I appreciate that. Yeah. Like, or we could go eat when everyone's at the show and get it out quicker. Yeah. Yeah. And watch them all, you know, and now with the 4K feeds and stuff. Yeah. Yeah. So, but we have some questions. I threw up a question box and I knew you have some too as well. It's got, um, I threw this up this morning without even asking you guys. I saw this. So, I just did it because I'm a good friend. And I don't mind your stuff on my wall dusty. You also, you also, I put up a video last week. Scott about the new mutant stuff. Oh, I didn't. I went ahead and offered the non white sauce people use wrongs code if they wanted. Oh, that was nice. He is fun. Really loud. He don't like white sauce. No. All right. So, I'm going to just kind of roll down these without even paying attention. What makes a great training partner and who have been all of your guys is best ones. Well, I haven't had many over the years. I spent a great deal of my life training by myself. But I relied on the community at the gym. I was very much like, that's my gym. I trained it for. Those guys will always be around. I can get spots in the late press in the hack. You know, can you, can I take you to me a force rep on in Climbed dumbbell? He had no problem. And everyone knew how to spot me and I'd had everybody trained out of spot. I was just a U-trained. Yeah. So, I was like, I was very much like that. So, like, to crew back at hardcore gym and Emmetton back in the day. I was there for 13 years. I mean, those guys were awesome. And, you know, like, a lot of the gyms I trained out over the years. And I had some fantastic training partners for some short periods of time. You know, like, I, my talk to about my friends, John and Nick and Australia. They taught me, like, you know, half of what I know and that was incredible. I trained, one of my best training partners ever was my best friend Scott. He trained with me for a couple of years straight when we lived in Emmetton. He wasn't a bodybuilder. He just was like a Nat toley Natty, like, go out. I'll go to the gym with you. And he was like, it was all about me, right? Like, I was doing my first couple of nationals. And he was just like, I'll train with you set for set. And I'll spot you. And it was just fantastic. Because it was all about me, right? There was no. He never ever said, I want to do this. It was like, we're doing this. We're doing this. We're squatting. J.K. Like, you know, so it's great. I trained with a guy named Dan Fedlock who won the Canadian Nationals in 2004. Those, those, that was like a real crazy era where we were, you know, I got real big. But I think I first time ever hit 320 and was training with him. And that was a good time. But it was only really like one year, you know. But I had two training partners that were for long periods of time. One was a Natty guy named Force Gavans from Emmetin. He hired me. He never competed. And wound up winning a bunch of natural shows and getting his Natty pro card. And he was fantastic training partner. Natty hardcore set for set, wrap for wrap, train to failure. And then my current training partner, Braden, Braden Palmer. You guys follow Paul Pomp Tree. But he's, I mean, he started training with me. We'd like, I think he weighed like 220. I don't know. And now he's like he hit 280 this year. Yeah. Right. And so I like to live like, curiously through Braden, you know, when people say Braden's getting huge, I take it as a compliment because I'm his training partner now. Yeah. And you know. And that old like that old line, like, I sort of like that old, that old samurai saying like, When the student is ready, the master will appear. Right. He's the student will become the master. Hmm. And it's cool. Yeah. Yeah. So Scott, first half because he ignored half of my question or the question, what makes a good training partner. What makes a good training partner. I would say, somebody who's going to be, when we've talked about this in the past, I think number one thing is somebody who is going to be consistent and somebody who's going to be on time. Somebody who's ready to get plugged in to do what we do. All those things. Yeah. Those guys were all those things. That's what we mean. Yeah. Generally somebody who's going to do what I want to do. That makes very good training partner. I mentioned that a few times. It's kind of part of it. Yeah. And I'd say that that really sums it up. I can think of Matt Karny. He was he worked for Pepsi and I worked for seven up. And he was like, hey, look, I talked to him once. Okay. And like I did a store that he was at. And that was it. Talk to him that one time and then like a month or two later, I get a phone call. And he was like, hey, this is Matt from Pepsi. I got your number from your manager. He was like, I told him, you know, I wanted to try to get a hold of you. I was like, hey, let's up. He was like, you know, I want to do bodybuilding. I was like, oh, okay. We'll come on out to the gym. And I was training for at the time competing. And he became my training partner for an extended period of time. And I just like, he learned how to do bodybuilding. I put him on a diet. You know, he learned how to do bodybuilding by working out with me. And then it was great in prep because he'd like do cardio with me too. And like when I was dragging ass, he knew it. You know, and it was cool to have somebody there that through that like the whole prep. So it was cool. And then eventually he wanted to do a show and he did a men's physique. She planned to, you know, do a men's physique show. That was cool. And it up having an issue and it up getting a freaking merseh from an in-growing hair. Like on his inner thigh, like two inches from the voice. Like in a way up there. Oh yeah. I don't mean mine. Mine away. Yeah. And he ended up going into like Ivy and it biotics, hospitalization. And that was it. So he was like, yeah, and I can do the show. That's a methicillin resistance. Staff of caucus, your reas. Oh, got that. Don't get that. Grand positive bacteria that are genetically distinct. The glasses on the first or that. Yeah. And I trained with Shelby for Shelby Starns for about five years. And that was before John Meadows was putting out his own plans. So we, we were doing John would send his workouts. He would write him up on emails and he'd send him to a select handful of friends and say, hey, here's a back workout. Try this out. Yeah. And so we're doing the like the Meadows 1.0 workouts for the first three years. And then it became JPs workouts by like 2016, 17. And then we kind of did a merge of like doing it. What Shelby wanted to do, which was like a combo of Meadows and JP stuff. Right. I'll tell you what, when I did the JP stuff, Dusty, we were doing more dads than ever. And unintentionally, my traps and biceps were the biggest they had ever been at the end of that season. Eight out of pounds. Eight out of pounds. Eight out of pounds, sir. Yeah. Yeah. Jesus. No, I thought that was a great question. I won't go into the list because I've been very fortunate. I've had great training partners since I started bodybuilding. I just always, because you know, I'm a bullshit, right? Yeah. When I found people who I think knew that before they came in, yeah. Yeah. And they knew what I would want need expect. And I've been really, really fortunate. One name that a lot of love viewers will know. I trained with Ryan Humsson for years. And it's funny. He's a big YouTube personality. Makes a shit ton of money on there. And what's funny about it is I used to call him the mutant. Because he didn't speak really. Really? We were training and he barely would talk. But I will tell you this for for those who are that know his humor. He's very like dead pen. And I saw splashes of that. In our like, we went out to dinner one time after a show. And Nina, my ex wife sister, told the waitress, hey, don't put whatever on her food because she was allergic. And dead silence and Ryan goes, are you actually allergic? Or are you just full of shit? And I just lost it because I was like, the guy who doesn't speak right in for the waitress just rails her out there. So it doesn't shock me that he's cranking out in that style. But, I mean, obviously Tommy Matt, I mean, the list goes on and on. And the big thing for me besides like you said Scott being consistent and showing up was leave your shit in the parking lot. I don't care. And you're here. Well, you can bring that in. Oh, I'm sure what you meant by that. But your personal life means nothing inside the gym. And those guys brought it. And I think I think as long as you're a little twisted in the head, you'll be fine. So now we had a nice run there. Up next. Let's see here. Sorry, my page disappeared here. Mm-hmm. I've got to tell you when I'll ask a little bit later. Here's a good one that we can run through quickly. Not a question would be a cool topic to cover. Making money in the bodybuilding space outside of competing. And everyone on this channel is doing that. Yeah. Well, I mean, I'm very fortunate enough to have an endorsement. Deal with mutant for, I guess, technically the 14th year. Yeah. Wow. Which I don't take for granted. I don't take that lightly. There's, let me interrupt your real quick on that. Because it's important. Why? Why do you bring value to mutant that they've signed you for 14 years? And I mean, before you're a pro during a pro, long retired. And the reason I ask is because I see people losing sponsorships all the time. Why don't you lose yours? Well, you have to try to make yourself valuable. So you have to ask yourself, like, why would you have value? And so, you know, if you have, let's say you had 200 clients, and they were all using the product. Well, that adds value. Sure. I don't have that. I have a smaller number of clients that keep a smaller stable of people. I don't force them to use the product. But some of them do. So, then I think, well, how can I add value? Well, the podcast, this podcast adds value. I'm reaching a lot of people representing the brand in a positive way. I try not to be a dickhead. I try not to be rude to people that shows. And I try not, you know what I mean? Like, you're always on the clock. That's one thing people don't get is when you're in the public eye. You're at a show. You're at an event. You're in an airport. You're always representing the brands that you have endorsement deals with. You're never off the clock. If I'm at the grocery store and some kids say, hey, you're up 300. I'm on the clock. You're also on the clock if the kid doesn't say, hey. Yeah, I'm also on the clock. You know what I mean? You're watching you and you're watching us all in public. Yeah, I'm good. Yeah. And I'm not just representing mutant, but now I'm representing my gym. Right? I'll be wearing a hoodie. People in downtown, people around town know I'm one of the owners. So when I walk into a hardware store and I'm asking the guy questions, he's looking at my hoodie. And I know that some of those guys at that particular hardware store know that know who I am. Like you're always on the clock in some way. And people don't think that way. And it's a big element to it. And it's not that you're just, you just have to realize it like how you behave, how you carry yourself. At all times affects your value. And then of course, you know, my gym sells their product and we promote their product. And I try to add value. So now, you know, there's a lot more to it than just like, have you seen my Instagram? Like, my Instagram's not amazing. I have 50,000 followers or whatever, which isn't like nuts. But there's all these other residual values that I bring. Also, too, like, on all the shop owners. I get along with all of them and like all that stuff. So there's, there's more to it than just like, look at the pictures I post. Did you see the workout real I made? Yeah, the real surface basics. Real surface people think the value is in that real surface shit. And it's not. It's in relationships. Yeah. I like that. So, hey guys, we gained, speaking of like, following some stuff. We broke 35,000 subscribers for the channel. This past week or so. Awesome. And we are getting more subscribers and effort. Like, we, I figured out some stuff and things are really kind of tipping in our favor. You know, knock on wood, algorithms, change and all that. But for the moment, we're cleaning up really well. And I have to say, thank you to all of our listeners and all of our new listeners. Because if we're getting that many more listeners per week, that means that there are a lot of new people watching this right now. Who might not have ever seen us before. So thank you guys for being here. Yeah. And if you are a new watcher, make sure to go to the very beginning in watch for our episodes so that if you're not impressed now, you'll at least know it's way better than it used to be. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Just to see the scale of him, I know it's still not great, but it was really, yeah. It was easier. It's far more impressive. Far more impressive if you see the first couple episodes. Yeah. He just watched from now. It's not that you've talked about. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, here's a good one. How do you strike balance between bodybuilding and life when something you need to be thinking about this at some level, meals, upcoming training sessions, etc. For most of the day. Bodybuilding is very simple. You don't have to dwell on it all day long. Like, I always try to tell people, it's like when you open up like the music window in your on your laptop and then you just minimize it. So it goes into the corner, but the music still play. Yeah. That's all bodybuilding is for like 20, 20, three hours a day. It's just software running in the background. You can be thinking about, like, you do not have to think about all your meals. Just eat them when your timer goes off. Yeah. It's mindless. It's mindless and mind numbing most of the time. Look, it's the most boring repetitive thing. Yeah. If we can do it. There's so many things you can accomplish while your bodybuilding. This whole like, I can't do that. I have meals to eat. It's like eat them in the car. They take one minute. Yeah. Like, yeah. That's my mind. There's not much I can add to that because I think that that's the, that is the magic is you shouldn't be thinking about them. I'm not cheering. The extra food together, especially if you're, you'll burn yourself to yourself too. You'll burn yourself to death. Yeah. I packed my food in the morning when I had the stores and I did exactly what around said at a time that would go off. And I couldn't always answer that timer because I was busy. But I said, okay, well, this food will all go down before I go to bed. And when I get to the gym, whatever time because that's the other thing people ask, like, when do you train? What's the best time when you can? And then you go, and then you do what you need to be done. I think it's really overcomplicated for no reason. Like, it's not harder to eat, chicken and rice than it is a cheeseburger. So I don't know why we're talking about it. We don't have it prepared, right? Like, well, that preparation is everything. I mean, you know, the only thing that I would say does change that you just brought up is I used to always, I'm talking about this in the show. I would ask when we were leaving somewhere. How long do you think we'd be gone? And she'd go three hours and go, okay, we'll call it six. And I'll bring two meals just in case. Yeah. That's it. And you know, and it was never a big issue. I mean, sometimes if we're out shopping and she's in the mall, I'd be like, I'll be back in 10 minutes. I'd walk to the car, I'd eat my meal, I'd put it back, I'd walk back in. Where are you? Quick tech measures. Show up, no big deal. Hey, I'll throw in one other thing. And that's just that if you're not there yet, let's say, or maybe you fell off that maybe for some people getting back on track or getting on track, it's easy. They just flip a switch and now they're on. And if you're not there, though, and you do feel like you need to work into it more, then set up real easy goals to reach. Like for me getting back on track, I started putting together some meals that were like real easy to eat. Like four ounces of chicken is much more racist. I knew I'd be able to eat as not a lot. You know what I mean? And then that way I just knew like, okay, that's prepared. I can go to that in over time. I built that consistency and then it evolved and then I could grow that. So it doesn't have to be perfect out the gate. All it has to be is better than it was yesterday. And if you can do that each week, you're going to get there, you know? Very true. Very true. Oh, here we go. This is a little bit different. From what you've seen in the experience in your lives, what has brought you true happiness, and what do you think others can do to achieve it as well? Hmm. I'm going to do a real generic answer, but I think it's the most true one. Having purpose. Yeah. I think if you live a life without purpose, that's why you're not happy. Yeah. Like when I look back at times where things weren't as smooth as I wasn't operating the way that I felt I had value to myself, to others, whatever that could mean. And as long as I'm living a life with purpose, I'm always satisfied. Yeah. I don't like that quote, Jordan Peterson a lot. Like he says a lot of stuff, but when I hear him talking about how important it is to bear responsibility, I'm like, oh, that's something I've instinctually figured out. Like if you don't have something that you're responsible for, that can really lead to a lot of stray decisions and people getting way off track. And the things that I'm responsible for that I know people count on me for really give me purpose, like you said dusty. And time me to like a reality of how I must behave and what I must get done. And you know, when we got the second dog, it was more responsibility. And I found myself like, like, it kind of fell myself kind of thriving on it. I had this extra responsibility going on. And I was like, I like this. And you know, having the gym and like there's things that I'm responsible for at the gym. And I don't want to let my partners down. I don't want to let the members down. And having like, you know, things that are always important that you have to pay attention to that gives you purpose and that kind of ties in with what you said. We want to, uh, I made me think we want to get a dog. Well, we want a victory as dad to get a dog for that reason, you know, he's right lives alone. He doesn't have a lot to do. And you know what dogs can save old people for that. I mean, very reason, you know. I liked all of that. And I mean, gosh, I mean, I all add one thing and that's in for me. It was really important is I have to make sure that I am not looking outside of myself for happiness. That if I try to tell myself like, oh, if I get this new gun, which, you know, I'm going to want to get it's like, then I'll be happy. I can't misconstru that in my head is that that's going to make me happy because I'm never going to get happy from that or from a relationship or from a financial, you know, goal that I'm reaching happiness has to, and I know it sounds cheesy, but happiness has to come from within. And that's the number one thing that I had to learn in 12 step because that's what addiction is. We're looking for something outside of ourselves to make it happy. So yeah, yeah, I got to watch that one. That one's a big one. My, that was actually my dad. He was always buying things big things, motorcycles, cars, houses, whatever. And he would get the new thing and he'd get that boost. And then it was no longer a new thing. Yeah. And he'd get another new thing. And this isn't meant to like twist this to a sad story, but I mean, he eventually was unhappy man. The company said, he could not understand that it was, those things were never going to do it. You know, so I think it's enormous to step away and realize I said at all the time, like if I lost everything I have financially and worldly. The things that that I have that are unbreakable, we would be fine. Nothing would change. The trucks would become some beat up whatever it'd be fine. We'd live in a place nowhere near as nice. And in the grand scheme, it will make me happy. Okay. There was this in the rug. First thing that I really tied the room together. This, it, it'll do it. It was such a beautiful rug. And it was like this white being really tied to the shade. And it was like, I saw this rug shopping and it was like early, early in recovery. And it was more than I could afford. But like if I saved my money up, I could get the rug. You know what I mean? And I realized like, man, I'm obsessing about this rug. Like I'm thinking like, oh, you know, I just, I'd be so happy to the point where like I need the rug. You know what I mean? But I caught myself. I never bought the rug and I'd go to the store and see it sometimes. But damn that's a nice rug. But here's the reality. Had I bought the rug, it would have eventually gotten, it was white by the way. Wait, right. It could be garbage. Yeah. No, I didn't know how to take care of stuff. I still hardly know how to take care of stuff. You know, I think flame a little better with Victorian, less feral. But yeah, it was, it was a little bit less feral. It's slightly less feral. I love that word. That's phenomenal. Yeah. What's the, yeah, quick and question you had Scott? Oh, so I wanted to ask you guys, I, I looked him up. I can't find this company. Maybe you guys know about it though. So we talked about it company last week. It says, you guys, another US based company that is making retro remakes is premier strength. They are making replicas of a few flex leverage pieces in not-alist, explode pieces. They look really rad. You guys have seen those? Yeah. I, yeah. I have, I follow them on Instagram. I have them on Instagram. Oh, you do. Okay. Yeah. So they've done, they've done some of those pieces. I'm not sure how big that company is. Looks like a, like a smaller outfit. But they may be, I, I don't know much about their stuff, but they might be making good stuff, you know. Okay. I did want to throw this in real quick because it came up. But, but, but, but, but, but, but, but, but, but, but. Oh, damn, it was a textured, um, Duke message me about the mega mass equipment. Yeah. And, uh, he said that his gym has a piece and it's been broken down multiple times with the, Oh, no kidding. So that's kind of back to what I said about the, the volume of use. Yeah. I don't remember where he sent her. I'd read the exact thing, but he sent that as soon as he was watching the show. And I was like, ah, that's right. That's bad. Thanks for people that know. It doesn't mean it's not great for your own home and stuff. It's like, yeah. When I first wanted to get a treadmill when I was younger and had my place, I went to the gym and the owner and I said, hey, can you order me when those life fitness treadmills? He was like, for what? I was like, my house. And he was like, why do you need a life fitness treadmill for your house? I was like, what's a good treadmill and I need it. He's like, those are designed to be used 20 hours a day. Yeah. He's like, how often, how many hours you're going to put on as a well? In an hour, a day, and then both. And then it'll probably like hold laundry pretty solid. He's like, you guys don't know what this word is. Most of you, but he goes, go to Sears. There are $500. It'll be fine. And that for you people now, that's go to Facebook marketplace. Yeah. You're in a box. You'll be finding your house. Because I got a club model, life fitness treadmill in my own home. From life fitness, I paid $500 for it. Another thing, too, is people buy that people just all the time. They buy cardio pieces and they get them home and realize they don't have the voltage. No. They've got the 240 or whatever, and it's supposed to be the one. I don't know my voltage, but you've got like the industrial power out that. Yeah. So you have to call an electrician. Yeah. That was a real expensive. Yeah. I did have to pay somebody to bring it into my home, too. So it's not like it was just $500. Yeah. Yeah. It's not like $500. Yeah. It was worth it though. I love it. Can't let. This is, this was directed to me, but I want to get your guys as a version, too. When you were running your stores and training at 4am with an itemized task list, cover each hour of the day, how do you manage recovery to avoid mental burnout from the combination of training beyond your feet all day, manage the work of the business and the owner. My schedule is ramped up lately and is similar to how yours described. I feel my recovery starting to slide. I prep and carry all my meals and hydration is good. However, between parenting, having full-time employees, five am training, starting to fall behind, I have pretty awesome coaches overseeing everything, but your experience with am training, running your business, having to make lists every other day really resonated with me, asking us to jump up client. So my answer in this is not sexy, but it's a truth. We didn't think about those things back in the day. The managing recovery was never a thought. Worring about overtraining, never crossed my mind, worrying about not sleeping enough, never crossed my mind, because I had things that had to be done and that was the end of it. So I think the biggest thing is you do what you have to do and you don't think about it. If his schedule was as busy as mine was, there was nothing to think about. There were however many hours in the day. This is the things I had to be done. Okay? I mean, I'm sure if I could go back in time because I also used to start with the sleep. I'm sure I would have been better if I could have made myself sleep. I'm sure I would have been better for had more time. I honestly think it would hold even marginally anyways. I think we way overthink those things now and you just get done what has to be done. Use your time as well as you possibly can, but not I mean, the answer is you just do it because it's all you have. My friend Travis put up a story the other day and he said, Overtraining is bad. We're worrying about overtraining is way worse. So yeah, it's a little one second. I got to pull something up that I had to read because I think it's way too valuable to be skipped here. There it is. I'm going to read a little train by JP. Oh no, take a little break. This one is fantastic. To get into this, I didn't ask about range of motion or rep ranges over and over. Those questions didn't exist 20 years ago and didn't need to because they were people who had the size I wanted. So I emited what they did and guess what? It worked. We didn't ever talk about fatigue ever. I'm so insanely embarrassed for you. If you mentioned fatigue management to me, to get to this, I set lift targets really fucking high ones. I knew that if I could overhead Smith plate five plates aside, I would have bigger delts than anyone else. Oh wow, it worked. I knew that if I could get my stiff legs to eight plates aside, I'd have bigger directors. Oh wow, that worked too. F and funny that. I focused an entire amount of work and didn't give a shit what I felt endured to reach those lift targets. I cannot express how much I hate this app now and all the complete utter wank that I read from people with no muscle advising people with no muscle. Band these shit combos from your mind and focus entirely on work. It's a small person thing to find 20 ways to distract themselves from the fact they are too much of an effing pussy to go after hard sets and set huge lift targets. I don't care if you're an ad either. If you guys they did it. They set piss take lift targets and built a shit ton of muscle doing it. We didn't talk about not doing the work because motor unit recruitment declines as a set goes on, F off and just do it and do more of it. And Morgan and tell you so bad that you can't get out of bed. So practical advice instead of just calling you all a bunch of useless kinds. Whatever you lift now for four reps, you must get that to 12 reps, ASAP with zero change in form and then by this time next year you must increase your load on the bar by 50%. That is doable. I promise you be a savage and attack your sets, but all of this insane noise out of your mind. Or we're trying to get big here or we're just going to be talking about it. I read that night. Wipe to tear. I put a comment that got like 200 likes. Did you? I put that's an absolute unit of a comment. Because absolute unit of a part of a part of whatever. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's good. But seriously, I mean, I think we should briefly cover it because What we just said, like you never even thought about those things. I never said like, oh, I'm soar today. What should I do? It's like that. Yeah, yeah. You try likes. There's that. Yeah, it's like day. You do that. Yeah. And there was all sorts of stuff like today's Hack Squad day. And I feel kind of like, there's a little thing here, but I saw just warm up really good until it goes away. And then I'll hack squat because it's Hack Squad day. Yeah. It's a little more warm up. You know what I mean? Just like, yeah. And just putting stuff out in your mind, which the putting stuff out in your mind thing. I really relate to because there were so many times I remember doing that. Like, don't think about that. That's noise. Like that whole thing. You know what I mean? Mm-hmm. And just getting to work and chasing lifts, chasing lifts. Like I remember chasing leg presses and chasing hack squats and chasing barbell rows. Chasing in climb dumbbell presses. Like you're looking at the far end of the rock and like, oh, fucking get there. You know, and just that super, super aggressive stuff. You know, I think there's benefit to those things. Like there's benefit to recognizing, you know, the, like, more sleep is going to be benefits. Because I can say there's times that have been like, you know what? Looking back, you know, I had a really tough time in that prep or that client did, you know, in 2015. He had a really weird sleep schedule because of his job. I bet that it had to do with his sleep. And I know that now, you know what I'm saying? So I think that there is, I think, benefit of knowing those things. But it doesn't mean that you need to, yeah, like, you know, be paralyzed by it. Yeah, you know, and I think you have to not train legs today because they're sure. I think one of the main problems is like, I would go to bed because I'm like, I'm going to bed at midnight tonight. I have legs tomorrow. Yeah. But let's say I had a bad sleep. Let's say I went to bed, toss and turn, couldn't get to sleep. Wannapult, only getting six hours. Got in the morning. I didn't dwell on the fact that I only had six hours sleep. Yeah. It didn't cross my mind. Did you check your HIV? Yeah. It didn't cross my mind. It's like, today's legs. I'm moving on. Yeah. Moving on. I still have rep totals. I still have rep totals. I still have rep totals. But I think what the problem is, is guys are now getting up and looking at their app and going, Oh, I didn't get the sleep I wanted. So maybe I should adjust my data to die. And it's they're not putting that shit. Like the value of putting it out of your mind. Just overcoming the nonsense. Overcoming the nonsense. Don't don't take all this shit in all the time. It just crowds up so much of your space. What's funny is, um, I feel like we, we have too much data now. Yeah. You know, you're sitting on it. We don't have to analyze it to wait like, over analyzing it. So I had a client. They're doing the set now. And, uh, I said, how's the steps going? And she goes good. And I said, is it hardest, it used to be? And she said, no. And we're in prep. And I said, okay, I want you to kick it up to a level where is this hard as it used to be? Yeah. And she goes, well, what level? I said, whatever one makes it as hard as it used to be. Yeah. And I was like, it, it, it, you should want to get off before your time is up. Like you used to. That's what I want. And she was like, so is it like a heart rate? I'm like, no. Hard as it used to be. And I really think that that part has gotten lost because it's a normal, and I'm, I'm not faulting it for asking. It's good questions. But I really do think that that's a thing. Like, Ron and I agree on this. Cardioshity, there'd be easy or hard. Right. Those are the two options. So if I want to be hard, if it starts to get easier because you're getting more conditioned, yeah, make it harder again. Whatever that means, you know? So the data is definitely slowing people down in a lot of ways. In my opinion, because like you said, Ron, you just never really thought about it. You're like, yeah, okay, well, here we go. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It doesn't, all that stuff doesn't matter. We're going to cut them more here. And the number of times that I beat my Reptotal, even though something that, some didn't go perfectly that week, I still beat my Reptotal. You know what I mean? And you pile up those wins and you realize like, just smoke through the shit. You know? I always found those days where the most rewarding days. Yeah, yeah. You get done and you're like, honestly, I didn't want to be here today. But I had to be. And I got going. And then next thing, you know, it's a killer workout. Yeah. You're like a new PR on Hacksquat. Yeah. There you go. It just clicked through, you know? Hey, Georgina from Patreon. She said that the IFBB rules states that anyone on prescribed TRT to keep test within physiological levels is unable to compete in a natural contest. I was surprised by this and think a lot of people are unaware. But you guys think seems to be unfair to me. Yeah, I mean, that stuff is sort of changing over time. I mean, you know what I mean? I mean, I think there's certain leagues now. Like aren't they allowed TRT and UFC now? I don't know. I've no idea. Like, I'm not quite sure, but I know that stuff is all kind of evolving and changing. I wouldn't be surprised if that eventually changes. But I mean, that's just the rules. Yeah. I mean, you know, a lot of 90 people aren't. I mean, I got my own opinions on Nadi. People doing Nadi shows that are used in like every peptide under the sign. Yeah. Yeah. They're running all this other stuff. It's like they're basically steroid free. Yeah. But using like insulin and growth hormone and, you know, all the peptides and even sight and mole, I'm want a thyroid prescription. Yeah. Okay. And then there's also there's natural and then there's unt, and then there's tested. Yeah. You know what I mean? Which I've heard people say is like, tested is an IQ test. Yeah. You know, who can pass it? Pass it. Yeah. Who can do math, you know? Yeah. Yeah. You're good. Good one here because I think that's I think this is great. Can you discuss the times BCA's may still be beneficial? I use them every day. So I'd say if you had to pick a time where there would be more the most likely to be beneficial, it would be in a calorie deficit getting ready for a show while you're training. I would leave out all the other words and just say while you're training. There you go. I'm going to get all the amino acids from EAs. I'd take that's why I get on. I'd get on the gear. The way the waves change are actually the ones that are made for extending your workout. Yeah. You get your workout to be not of the same doses. Okay. So that's why meeting continues to make them. Yeah. Because the the fat has been to go straight. Yeah. You don't need to branch chains. First off, we'll start a step further. You don't need any of them. That's a point. Right there. Because you're eating. But guess what? I eat it even now. Plenty of protein in a day. And I can absolutely tell. Like I finish a school like ECA of the BCA's. Every single workout. Yeah. And what I noticed, it's the same thing. It's funny enough that people don't realize this. But the reason that salvation called their product extend when it came out. Bernstein, just because that's the idea. Yeah. Good morning. How long you can train at a certain level of intensity over a long amount of time. Yeah. Whereas a lot of people, how they feel in the beginning of their workout versus the end isn't the same thing. You can actually, in a great way, a test it's got. Is if you're doing your cardio and I don't recommend using it for cardio. First off, but for you to get a feel. Sip on it during your cardio. And you'll see that the the end of your cardio is not any part of the beginning. That's not what it should be. You don't want anyone else to hear that and think it's a good idea. I'm just saying for you to test it. Yeah. It doesn't. You just won't slow down. So I have a difficult. I think I'm a unique person when it comes to this. Losing can create an insulin release. And that ends up giving me low blood sugar. And I figured that out because back in the day when everybody was all on E, you know, BCA is I would use them training. And I would go hypos at the end of my workout or into my cardio. So right. Yeah, for me, I'd be afraid of going hypos, but I know you mean because I did use my fair Share of them. So I wonder what the dosing is because I know E, BCA is you're getting usually like what 2.5 grams of looseen and 1.25 of isolucene and valine. You're 10 total. Yeah. So yeah. Same ratio. Yeah. So that would be 5 so double that. Okay. Yeah. So you would I wonder how much you'd have to take of E. You probably have to take like 30 grams of E a a's to get that done. So all right. Do you have anything else that we need to cover? Think of one more just because I'm hunting for one and then we'll call it a day. Should we put I think we're going to put this up a sort of first. Okay. And then put the other one out next and we didn't even tell people that that was like a memorial day weekend special. Whoops. Now they know. Just this is true. I wonder if I got something in Patreon here. Yeah. See if you got anything. I don't have anything that's like a great. I got this signature. I don't know how to. So he's from Patreon. I feel like I owe him. You know what I'm saying? But I'm not quite sure what he means by this. I'm just going to tell you. It says question for it's just body building and it knew Patreon subscriber by the way. South side iron. He said check out South side underscore iron under a side underscore Columbia on Instagram. He says question for it's just body building men's physique. Replace the board shorts with the square cut out cut trunks that classic started. Let's be honest some of these guys are walking around at 250. It's time to let the board shorts go. Then he says rename classic physique classic body building. Keep the current trunks and have a short and tall class significantly increase the weight caps and put pressure on the judges to reward the classic look over the open looks. Lee Haney was 511 225 on stage in the current. Five 11 cap for classic is two 19. Why call a division classic when many of the big names in classic guys wouldn't be able to compete in the class. P S then he said check out the South side iron Columbia. So he's saying just redo the whole thing basically. I mean I think what they're what they're trying to do. Yeah, is they're trying to control the height to weight ratio. Because I do and I understand we said I've got a couple clients that I really wish they had 10 more pounds. Because their frame could hold it without losing that look. In my opinion, I like what the IPB is doing because if not what blurs the lines and confusing people is. You can be within the height and weight ratios and you still don't have the classic physique at all. Yeah, you know, and yes, there are outliers. I mean it's it's hard not to say that some of the top guys. I mean what would we say Jamie Christiansen's physique should look like to be a classic guy. Six. Six. Six. I mean he would but he's still tiny. Yes, you know he yeah, I mean it's got all the things that would you could argue classic but I think that's the idea behind it being classic physique and not classic bodybuilding. Because if not he is a classic bodybuilder. Yeah, you know, I mean Tony Freeman would be a classic bodybuilder. Basically if you were just a small waste. Yeah, and everything else billows out from there you could call yourself classic. I don't I don't think they want to blur the lines anymore than they already are because as it is there's classic guys that I know if they wanted to cross over. Could be great open prozers. I mean men's physique. I've seen some of these guys. They're not hiding their legs. They're covering them. That's the shorts that are there. They have them. Yeah, those guys can bodybuild. I can see getting away with getting rid of those trunks or getting rid of the board sharks and going to a more classic. Trench sure. I do. If we were going to get something. I don't just agree with that. We give him that one. The question that I becomes in mind in my head is how would they present their legs posing the way they do. Yeah, you know, I mean I don't I'm sure there's an answer but it would change a lot of stuff. Yeah, I don't disagree. But I'm one of the few I shouldn't say few but I love the classic physique look. Yeah. I don't love the way that they are told to present their look. I don't like the little hole move around the hands look ridiculous thing. But the physique. I think I'd rather have some of these guys classic these these men's physique then the bodybuilders. Just walk around. They look nuts. Yeah. Those guys are getting laid nonstop. Yeah. Not the Dutch were a lot of people. But you know it's true. Oh yeah. That's all. Oh, totally full of stuff. Yeah. Mine are too, but they're gosh. Yeah. Yeah. They're just on that note. Great episode. It does seem I've also got something here. I have some. I have some BCAs. I'm going to boy. I'm going to make sure I don't go hypos. All right. Great. That's the best one. I'm going to make sure I don't go hypos. I'm going to use these on my next workout. And I'm very curious. I want your breakdown. All right. Is that it? Our work here is done. Dusty is so much. Look at you. He's got the glasses. And run. Just take the whole thing. He's different man. I know. I know. I saw a thing that where they said that they said if you wear glasses in the US, like our society, our culture, you are instantly thought of as being much smarter. Like it's just a fact. You're thought of, but they also, you're instantly less attractive to these. I couldn't go further in that direction Scott. So it was worth the trade. Welcome to the worst. The trade. Oh man. That's funny. I'm trying to more than enough things that you can cancel me back out on the. Yeah. You can do a lot of stuff with glasses. That's a good. A good removal take. Yeah. You're going to do. Yeah. I'm not doing those now. Yeah. No, I think of, I think of the opening scene for CSI Miami when David Cruz so it always kind of take his glasses off and drop the final line. You know what I mean? The worst like one line in the universe. Yeah. I have a friend of mine who has a crazy story about meeting that guy. Really. He has a connection through the film industry and he happened to go to the. He was a little bit dinner and David Cruz so was there. And he wound up sitting next to him. And he thought, oh, it's this cool. I'm sitting next to David Cruz. All right. And they're chatting away and and they. It was going pretty well. They're that of a Nick and everyone's laughing. They're talking away and he's talking about movies. Yeah. And then and and and David had told some stories that sort of led my friend to feel a certain way about how he viewed his characters. And they'd been very comfortable in talking freely. And he's like, oh man, like, like, see us. I'm my amy was like great. Like it was, you know, great. That what a like what it you know, you must have been fun plan like such a cheesy character. You know, like you got to deliver like the cheesiest lines and I can't even the big hit. And you know, like that character, like in any other context would it just been like utterly ridiculous. And like how did you feel about like how that character was written and like just went kind of what a little too comfortable. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. How like how like cheesy lines were and how it deliver was just like a certain way. Yeah. And David just changed and I wrote that character. Oh. And then he like left. My friend was just like bullshit. And then he was just like, oh, yeah. I think it's great. You didn't know. Like everyone knows that. That's the first thing I said to him. But he brought it up like those were the worst. He seemed shocked. He seemed like, what are you talking about? And my friend was like, oh, shit. Yeah. Like, oh, yeah. I'm just kidding. Yeah. I have to say quick thing before we go. I am watching. First of all, my bland has been amazing. Oh, Dave, Dave crosslands been watching. He told me it's so good. Yeah. My bland is awesome. Dusty. You'll love it. And then also the studio. The studio. Watch the studio. Seth Rogan's new show. I like Seth Rogan. It is absolutely fantastic. Seth Rogan plays a guy who winds up as the head of a movie studio. So it's full of camiose. Okay. Because everyone else in it is real. Right. Right. He's like the head of a movie studio and he's a kind of bumbling. Because he's like throwing this job. He's like, oh, my god. I'm the head now. I ought to kind of out of nowhere. And everyone else is a camiose playing themselves. Fictional versions of themselves. It is shot. That's so to 30 minutes. They're super high-paced, nonstop. And we are completely absolutely. We think it's a best project Seth Rogan's ever done. Wow. It's fantastic. Wow. And it's fantastic. So watch the studio. You'll love it. And that's my TV review for the week. We're still finishing White Lotus. That's a story. So fun. Act like Shell. Yeah. Before the last episode, you in Victoria have to sit down and you have to place some bats on who's going to die. Because you know someone dies, right? Yeah. Oh, my god. Season two was epic. That's what a great ending. We can't. I don't want to give it away for anybody. But that was epic. Such a fun show. Yeah. How far in are you to season three? We're we're getting there. We're at that point here. So here's our evolution of a TV show. We start burning through him hard, right? And we're like, oh, God. We don't have many left. And this is the last episode. So he's low at down. So yeah, we start. Well, we're going to watch something else tonight. So we kind of back off a little bit. Before we know it, I can't even remember what was happening anymore. Right. So it has Sam Rockwell showing up yet. Sam Rockwell. I don't know who that is. I don't know. I don't know actor's names. It's an actor. Yeah, it's an actor. He shows up in delivers an amazing monologue. So we're at the point where. So her son, the the massage therapist son. He is just about to get in town. Okay. So we're like, I think two thirds of the way. Two thirds of the way. Okay. Okay. Okay. Well, you'll look up these guys. We're watching TV shows. All I watch. So yeah, yeah. Shorten egg. Sun is in that. So that's been. Yeah. Patrick sports and eggors and it is getting. Yeah. And I've been looking at it because they have. They have scenes like a him at the pool. And we've been trying to like, I know. You're analyzing the structure of this. It does he look like his dad at all. He's got the arms. Like he does. Yeah. He's the same height. I've met him. I've met him. So he's like the same. He's a tall guy. Broad shoulder. Yeah. And I think you could have the arms. If he would fill out. And I like how they've got him like making protein shakes. Yeah. He's in the fitness. Yeah. Get him a little pre-mo. Some deep on the office. Yeah. Yeah. A little pre-wise in Thailand. He could go get some good stuff. All the only one. Yeah. Yeah. I thought they'd write that in there. Maybe makes it trip to the pharmacy. His sister at one point is like, we all know you take steroids. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Well, look up Sam Rockwell. All right. Amazing actor. And do you let me know if he's shown up here? I don't know. I think he was he was he the friend of the friend. Yeah. Who lives in Thailand. He watched that episode. That was the last episode. Oh. That was the greatest out-of-left field monologue. He starts talking and Emily and I are like, oh, he's shit. He's like, so what have you been up to? Well, just let me tell you. I'm not gonna rap it all. Just delivering it like it's nothing. Nothing. Yeah. Amazing. Dusty will love it. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Thanks. And I guess in real life Sam is married. You know the three girls that are on the girls trip? Yeah. Yeah. One of those is Sam's wife in real life. Okay. All right. So she was cast on the show. And as they were writing the show, they were like, oh, well, Sam Rockwell. It could fly out and do a cameo because he's wife's already on the show. And then Sam, I guess, had input. He's like, I got a character if you guys. And he had like, he did that. He did some input there with them. They were like, oh, Jesus. And then Sam had a lot of input on that model. So he like, Sam Rockwell, somebody then I assume. Yeah. Well, he's Oscar winning. He was a tombstone. He was all he was. He was a moon. One of my favorite sci-fi movies ever. Okay. He's been in a calm, amazing list of crazy Oscar winning. Movies. If he looked up Sam Rockwell, he's just an absolute ace of actors. Yeah. Yeah. Victoria started talking during that scene. And I was like, because it was right at the beginning of him getting into that. And I was like, no, hold on. That's a good song. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. No talking. Long now. Let's go the bathroom. This is unacceptable. Yeah. Okay. Yep. Okay. Thank you very much, guys. Remember, it's just body building. Like, share, subscribe, comment. And. Check out. You got to. That's what my new one. That's your new one. I can't come off and then use them as the bell. I am mutant.com. Good. I am mutant.com. Get your right. Search get your all in. And never want to get on the gear. And the BCA's. Yeah. Don't forget the BCA's. Okay. And thanks for all the questions. All the Patreon, all the YouTube questions, everything. We love it. Thanks for keeping us in the algorithms. And remember, it's just body building. Okay.

on the American military looking at testosterone supplementation for soldiers from a point of view of elevated levels. So, birds, the holders. Yes, super soldiers. 200 to 250 milligrams per week. Tren, trent, lots of trent, that's a secret. Oh, dude, I wouldn't want to fight soldiers on trend. Would you? Mm-hm. You know what I'm saying? Like, if you had your choice, if you had your choice, there's like a bunch of soldiers, and they've all got the same guns as all these other soldiers, but the other soldiers are on trend. I don't want to fight the trent soldiers. You know what I'm saying? What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crossley. I'm Scott McNalean. All of our programming is brought to you by Evalbloodanalysis.com. You can get your labs done by Dave if you're in the UK. And hey, listen, if you're on cycle, you should definitely be getting your labs done. So hit, Dave up. We're brought to you by Patreon. Thank you guys for your support over at Patreon. You guys are the frickin' best. And you get priority on all of the questions and everything we are brought to you by trentetrician.com. Use our code, think over there. SupplementSource.ca for our Canadians' great deals that change week to week in StromSports.com. Go to StromSportsMetrition if you're in the UK. Get some good, cycle support over there. Mm-hm. Don't you... Strom, US loan, Steve, it's a day. Oh, yesterday. Oh, okay. Well, check them out in the US too, guys. You can do that. How about that, huh? I'm not sure of any links or anything, but I saw a post from Rick saying that he had launched in the US as a... Well, there you go. There you go. They've always had a great line of health supplements in great stacks. So I think this will be really good for, you know, companies like Revive, they need a little competition and it's good to see Rick bringing that to him. So listen, we got a bunch of listener questions, Steve. We, yeah, what's that? No, no, you just say they need competition. You need a little competition, you know? That competition man drives the market. You know what I'm saying? Sometimes. Mm-hm. We've got a bunch of listener questions. We've got a main topic today, which is EQ. Is it going to be the new Primo? Now that Primo is not available anymore, and at least for now. And of course, if you guys want to take part in the next show, then comment below. Guys, the show has been doing fantastic. And I have to think all of you for commenting. Even the people who've commented who don't like us and said that we're terrible, we appreciate you guys, because you're helping us to do our thing. We're terrible. They're not wrong. No, no, no, no, no, no. We're not wrong. We did have a guy who, again, who was like, I, I, I supposed to listen to this guy breathing into his microphone for the next hour. Good job. Yes, you are. Yes. No, no, no, no. Next question. Oh, and we had somebody called you out about your car too. So we got a gear head. So we're going to have to talk about that one today. But let's cover this thing with EQ, man. So what's the deal is, you know, let's first talk about it. You know, everybody kind of ditched AIs, right? Like going back in the history of bodybuilding when I was younger, everybody used to ton of AIs. They thought it was like completely innocuous. No issue, right? And then they realized, oh, man, maybe AIs aren't a good thing. And there was a big push, especially from TRT people, to not use any AIs. If you're running huge, super physiological levels of tests, you gotta have some sort of estrogen control to some degree, at least in a lot of cases, not everybody, not across the board. But now the new thing has become pre-mo. They're like, man, I don't touch AIs. Terrible for you. But I'm going to run a gram of pre-mo. Problem being man now, pre-mo supply has been temporarily halted. So what's up? Yeah, both pre-mo must seem to be thin on the ground. I think things might be improved in, but I don't think it's going to fill it down to the grass roots for a while. Yeah. And EQ has shown to have anti-Eastogenic effects. What I find, and this is not research-based, this is just literally looking at bloods. So I accept that there is always the caveat that the person may not be using EQ. But what I find is that it's anti-Eastogenic effects seems to be extremely varied. The one good thing about EQ from a manufacturer point of view eats liquid. So it can't really be replaced from source with anything else. Obviously a lab can, but anything is suspension. Right. And fire out the door, but the supply up end of it, EQ will turn up as a liquid. So if it says with a powder, you know, it's EQ. You've talked about the raw material. Yeah, the raw material. So it's start as a liquid. So at least there's some assurances there to a small degree that the labs can go, well, yeah, it's liquid. It's most likely going to be EQ. But yeah, I've seen the East Asian response to be incredibly varied, ranging from what would appear to be a slight increase in East Asian, but nothing dramatic through to nothing at all, down to absolutely destroy the East Asian levels. Beyond even the stuff that I see from Primo and everything out, it does work. It seems to be an absolute led jammer. I don't seem to have any indication of those to affect or anything, it just seems to be really wild and really varied. Whether that's driven to impart by drug quality, I'm very easily be, but beyond that, I have no real idea. I know one of its metabolites is an extremely effective AI. But it's not produced from what I've seen in significant quantities to really be the driving factor here. So, and I know there's been discussion around it, possibly lowering a one and I've been more of a different effect on the over-eachogens, which then somehow has a role over effects on you too. But I'm not losses to what is really going on with it and why there's such a variance in people so it's effects. Well, listen, man, if so, let's look at just testosterone. And this is just me kind of free ball in it for a minute. Not everybody converts the same amount to estrogen, right? So, you put somebody on 200 milligrams of testosterone, one guy's going to have high estrogen, one guy's going to have low, one guy's going to be in the middle. So, it end-dht, the same, right? So, all these conversions are going to be independent of each person. I wonder if there is something to that. If there's a metabolite in aqua poise, it does function as an AI, maybe some people are better at converting to that than others, you know? It's just how the range of effects is so dramatically different. Yeah. I mean, off, your example, 200 megapest. Yeah. We can see normal estrogen, we can see slightly low estrogen, and we can see elevated estrogen. But the scale of range is not super dramatic apart from a very rare occasion of as the estrogen super high with somebody at that solid dose in. Sure. So, generally, the estrogen is quite predictable. You know, if it's going to be up, yeah, it's going to be up, or it's only going to be 20% of both upper limit. Yeah. Whereas EQ stuff, it seems to range from nothing at all to destroy an estrogen on a gram of tests. And then there's also a variability in this. So, I'm the same as you, as far as what I've seen. I've seen some people that their estrogen gets leveled. In other guys that it seems to not touch them, I think then two, one of the variables is that not everybody I work with is all using the same doses. You know, we may have one guy who say does really well with testosterone. And let's say that he's been using 875 per week. We add in 300 EQ. I wouldn't expect that 300 EQ to be a drop in the bucket for reducing estrogen from 875 test. You know, but on the other hand, maybe if we have another guy who's doing, say 300, test 300 EQ in 300 mast. There's a possibility that he's going to get hammered. You know? Yeah, I mean, obviously dose is always going to play significant facts during it. But I'd even look in all these, and there's a myriad of variables, the levels seem to swing very wildly. Yeah. And it's an odd one. I don't really have an answer for people I'm afraid. I wish I did. Have you been supposed to clever skull about it? No, we haven't talked about that, but it would be a really great topic to dive into. As a matter of fact, I'll text him after the show and see if it's something he'd be interested in looking into. It is. It does seem to be incredibly varied, so I would be really interested to know what clever skull things. Yeah. All right. Well, listen, like I said, we have a bunch of questions. And now I know you're not presenting this information as this is fact across the board. But you sent me a couple of cool texts earlier today about estrogen and red blood. Thick, thick blood. So what was that all about? You had a few studies that you were looking at. Yeah, it's sometimes right or wrong. I'll have a daft idea, and then I'll just wonder often see if there's anything to it. And sometimes I just not even a daft idea, it's just, oh, I wonder. So I was wondering whether Eastgen had any driving factor in blood thickening. We know testosterone increases in the global. We know that, you know, this is obviously. Um, does Eastgen, did Eastgen have any impact? And so I started to have a sniff around. And from what I can see now, first thing lets bear in mind that these studies are even animal models over in women. I haven't found anything in males as it stands. And I'll say the reason I just haven't found anything yet. And the general finding was that low Eastgen potentially promoted blood thickening. OK. And elevator Eastgen was at least neutral if not reducing off hemoglobin. Um, but there was a very strong sort of caveat to a whole that, you know, things like iron levels players significant role. And obviously in the female studies, menstruational cycles play a significant role as well. Sure. So it was by no means, you know, deaf and a ball pretty much every study suggested the elevator Eastgen was either going to be neutral or lower blood thickening, lower hemoglobin levels. Um, and it was, like I said, very early findings. I was just sniffing about. So I just fired you free over that. I just stumbled across that were a load more than I was working for. Yeah. It's interesting. It is interesting. Yeah. I'm going to take a little bit deeper and see if there's any more. I doubt I'm going to come to any real world conclusion on it. But though the female studies, obviously, there was the issue with iron and menstrual cycles, the animal models didn't have that problem. Yeah. And the animal models support the same trend. So is it happening? I can't say is there enough there for it to go? It might be. Yeah. I think there's definitely enough to have an interest run. Oh, that could actually be a factor here. Hey, you know what? Because I just jumped topics. I figured we jumped to that. I just wanted to mention that and then go into our listener questions. But you know what I should have asked Dave? I should have asked this about the tests or about the EQ scenario. So if somebody wanted to figure out, it does estrogen work as an AI for me. How would we go about in experiment with that? Because I feel like a low dose would probably make sense, right? Depending on what your experience level is. But if we have a lot of guys that aren't doing a lot of gear, let's say they're running their cycles at 3 to 500 milligrams of test per week. You want to find out if EQ works as an AI for you. What do you think an average dosing would look like in that range for that amount of tests? Well, the first thing would be you'd need to run the 3 to 500 for about 5, 6 weeks. So the U.S. peak plasma and therefore peak estrogen conversion. You may have historical stuff that you can use as a baseline for that. So that might help. Sure. And then I'd probably start with maybe a 50% ratio. So like if you're doing 500, then maybe 250 of EQ. And then the anti-SUNIFICs get to be quite rapid, I would suspect. Really, you don't think that the aqua poise would have to build up to get that. There's obviously going to be the peak plasma point that again is going to take 4, 5 weeks and I get that do. But at the same time, it's going to be active within 24, 36 hours. Your body's going to metabolize and it's relatively quickly. So you've got something out of your head now? I think if you have to two weeks of EQ saw a no Apple drop in estrogen levels. So I know, but I'm saying 20, 30 points. Then I think you're on to something and then it would be a case of running it for the 4, 4, 5, 6 weeks and then checking again and see where it plots out at it for plasma level. 20, 30 points in your scale goes to what 150 in the U.K. Yeah, yeah, roughly. So if you're going to 150 and we go to 40, then maybe 5 to 7 points. If you saw that kind of drop in the U.S. 7 point drop in a couple of weeks, then you know you're on to something. Yeah, I would say so. Yeah. All right. I just figure we should give them a take-home. You know, having you could potentially, if you're concerned about estrogen in the short term, you could run something like Nova Dex as a, just, I mean, war retention and all that crap. Yeah, it's not great, but at least we know that goes once the estrogen is sorted. Obviously what we don't want is guy, no. Yeah. I'd be happy for a baseline of Nova Dex just to protect against that until because it's not going to lower these levels. Yeah, yeah. All right. So you're going to be able to see the actual effect on the estrogen without Nova Dex, still keeping you safe from going up. Yeah, I think that makes a lot of sense. Guys, I got to take a break to do the whole lecture, subscribe thing, but I also want to say thank you to you. The internet's kind of a weird place, at case you didn't know. And I'm glad that we've put the community together that we have. I'm grateful to read your comments. In fact, I know a lot of YouTubers that don't read comments. I read all of them and I try to get back to everybody. So if you comment, I will see it and I'll try to get back to you. Also, the like button is absolutely free of charge. You don't have to pay anything to hit it and it does help us out of ton. It's not going to like push us into your algorithm, but it will help other people to hopefully find the show. So if you like our stuff, please try to help us out. All right, so listen, like I said, we do have a bunch of listener questions. We'll dive into those and let's see. So I know Dave too, you're going to be away next week. We're not going to have a show next week. I'm going to be away. You're going to be away. You've got to think you're doing. You're doing a thing. Are you allowed to say what you're doing? Yeah, yeah. So Jamie, the giant Jamie Jahale, Jamie Christy and Big, what a lovely name he's using. The diet. Yes, the giant is doing a charity golfing event in aid of prostate cancer awareness. Okay, okay. And we're going to go with Van. Now he's playing golf from effectively seven o'clock in the morning till about 10 o'clock at night. Okay. So he's doing four 18 round holes of golf back to back. Wow. Yeah. Um, that's going to be one saw back. Um, so we're going to do blood testing. We're offering the prostate tests at our normal price, but we're basically donating all the profit to the charo. Are you doing like a finger in the bomb right there? No, just a blood test. You're trying to. I thought you're doing like a finger in the bomb test right there. Don't bring your fantasies into the show. Okay, it's just no need. We're going to do a finger in the bomb. Me might what he might want to after the end before. That's a golf. Ha ha ha. Just to wake them back up. Oh yeah. Just just to see this any feeling life. Yeah, so I mean, where in March, it was counselor awareness months. So we did free prostate cancer tests all through March. Okay. Um, and so this one, we're just going to be donating the profit to the charo. We're going to be that 10 or two issues of four hours. So you're not golfing. That's what you're telling me. Are you golfing? I am with Billy Connally on the golf thing. Who's Billy Connally? Billy Connally is a Scottish computer. Billy Connally is. I either. Now, I might know him by face or something. I don't know people, famous people and stuff. He's he's comedian, a Scottish comedian. Okay. And he says that golf is a good walk ruined. A good walk ruined. Okay, yeah, I could see that. All right, I'll take that one. All right, so questions. Oh, yeah. This is interesting, man. He says, uh, oh, no, this is a different question. Sorry, there's there's one somewhere in here about removing his test. He's saying it's saying we're moving his testicles. He's using debol instead. No, we do that on our own just by taking gear pretty much. Um, yeah, but we'll find that one using debol for his extra. Okay, so he says, tried 10 milligrams of debol per day to my 750 tests and 600 EQ. But I got sick every time. Can people, are there people that just could not handle orals and can I try Winnie or Anna draw instead to see if that's any different? Hey, would help if we have some clarification on what got sick means. Good point, you know, what sorts of sick? If you talk in dodgy stomach, it's probably just the oral stress on the stomach and that's going to happen with all the oral. Yeah. And if it's, um, if it's, um, a number form of sickness, then I don't know. So, someone's just asking a chat about the details of the charity. Oh. In case I want to donate, so I just want to update you so you can put it in the do-borey diggy finger underneath. Okay, and that will be out in time too, because we're putting this this will be out next Monday. Yeah, this is Tuesday. We're doing it. Yeah. All right, cool. So it would be just in time then. All right, let me see what else we have here. Yeah, and I wonder, man, um, what does that mean sick? If he feels like, like, really, like, he's dealing with, I'd also do man maybe look at your labs to see what's actually happening here. I mean, no, there is, I would be surprised that this is a stretch, but there is the potential of the extra on the bike load. This is too much for his immune system and he's already dealing with something. And he's tipping over the edge, but I think that's a stretch. Obsthetist movement would be just the orals. Yeah. Which means you're going to get probably the same effect with any oral. Um, beyond that, I'm obviously, but I don't know what it means about sick. It's very difficult to be more clear on it. At the end of the day, if he's only talking to him at the ground doses, I think he can just try it. No, he could just try it, but I would try and rob a few tablets of a friend, rather than via full-tole, if you'd just having the potential that they may both be useless. Yeah. All right. Let me see what else we have here. We've got a bunch of stuff. And like I said, guys, you're welcome to comment with your questions. We'll tackle them on the next show. A serious question. I've been diagnosed with hip dysplasia. Um, about 10 to 15 years, two young to be eligible for a hip replacement. I love training, training. It's my mental health reset in coping with life mechanism. What could I run long term to help with the joint issues that won't wreck my health before I can go to get the operation? Do you guys, I don't think there's anything that's going to particularly help. You might get a little bit of the deca. Um, a cushioning effect, right? Well, I would just said, more, you're looking down the line of anti-inflammatory desire. So maybe TB 500 something like that's going to help with some information in the joint. Yeah. Um, but actual metabolic wise, I don't think there's, I mean, building muscle muscle in the area will support the joint that's for certain. Yeah. Um, but as to any specific compound, it depends. I suppose I'm what's getting aggravated at the point if it's attendant. And then you tell me, yeah, you're like your TBs and BPs and decara are obviously going to have a slightly positive effect there. Um, if the pain is something else, then no, I can't see it. I could see there being tendon issues. So I, I had, uh, my rot-wiler had hip dysplasia. And yeah, I'm familiar with it in a dog's, but not particularly in people. Basically the joint, you know, it doesn't enclose the shell. The shell is the shell. The bone. So it's open and it can just slip right out, which I can only imagine how freaking painful that is. Um, I think that, man, I know, you know what they recommend for animals is water therapy. Because it doesn't, you know, it takes the weight off of them. So if they can exercise in water, that's helpful for them to be able to stay as active as possible. I wonder man about getting it done privately. You know, Ron Partlose talking about getting a hip replacement. He talked with Mike Mike Van Wick who had both of them replaced Mike was like, listen, I'm just, I just went and paid out it for it out of pocket. Because Canada, the health system there, they're going to like have him wait forever and all that. But he just was like, you know, screw it. This is important to me. He paid for it. Uh, Scott Stephenson had both of his hips replaced. But that's an expensive procedure. I wouldn't imagine. Yeah, it was like, I think 10 grand or something like that. Oh, no, as much as I thought it was going to be over that, so be honest. I think that's, I think that's, I could have just honestly, Dave, I thought that's what it was. But I may have just made that up. Like, I may have literally just thought that sort of wasn't set it. I don't know why, but yeah, somebody else might know better. Um, all right, got a bunch more, um, okay. What's the best thing to do for raising your age, DL? DL obviously plays a role. Yeah. I'm going to drop. So good HDL sources. Avoiding compounds or supplementation with state supplementation, I mean, stuff like that. It's that upper tick of the HDL aggressive. Yeah. So pre-mode, mass, the DHDs in general. Um, and then obviously A-dex. Uh, there's a number one aroma seen is obviously much Jennifer on lipids to that health. Good HDL sources in your diets, eggs, or the fish, avocado, healthy fats, uh, and then supplement wise, eye preferred krill oil, uh, just because the eats, um, fossil lipid base of its absorption is much better. It's bioavailability is much greater. Um, citrus burger more. And you can do something called pollin therapy, which is one of gram of a liposomal vitamin C. I'm five grams of lysine at twice a day. Okay. Cartering will bring those numbers up. I don't know how beneficial that is, you know? I've seen huge jumps. So when I was, you know, on off cycle, nonstop basically, uh, while competing, my HDL was like stock at 25, man. Like just prick and stuck there no matter what I did. And when I ran Cartering, I was able to bring it up to like 38 within six weeks. I've seen very impressive improvements with Cartering. I'm still on the fence with the cancer stuff. And I, I, I, I get the, you're dedosing arguments and everything else. We have this every time the word is mentioned. Right. Um, and I agree. Yeah, you know, that that's the study dosing was way way in excess of what you'd see or use. But it still makes me just start a little bit unprehensive. Yeah. All right. I can respect that for sure, man. Especially when we're now talking stats of one in every two people, getting cancer at some point in the life. It's, uh, you know, those, those odds are pretty real. Yeah. There was an interesting thing Victoria was telling me about with animals, dogs, dogs being more likely to get cancers. Uh, and then humans and, and or excuse me, dogs were more likely to get cancer now than they were in the past. And she said that they were looking at the relationship to past decides. And that dogs have a greater exposure to past decides than humans do. And, and I guess that that was a factor. So do they though? I guess. Yeah. I, I don't, I didn't see, this is like in passing during a walk. She mentioned it in our name. Yeah, I'd see. So obviously animals, animals like dogs going in fields and stuff is not really commonplace because remote will ground air, most farmers will shoot the focus. That's also bad for their health. Yeah, but I was saying that food exposure for a human to pesticide treated foods is probably pretty high. Yeah, I don't know. Is there, does the FDA or FDA and the US do we have different regulations? I don't know. And then we do have like everybody's doing long treatments here. So, and you know, in the suburbs and we have a little signs don't you dog walk on the lawn? Yeah, I don't know. I just, I just got me thinking that it's their exposure greater than humans. I don't know. Right. How about this one? Um, which would build more muscle? A total of 500 milligrams of gear being 500 tests or 250 tests and 250 pre-mo or mast. Test. Yeah, test. 500 tests and three I use a GH versus 250 tests and pre-mo or mast. That's still say test even more with the GH. Yeah, I mean, I think the GA if you exploit the increase recovery, I think you'll see better progress with the GH in play. If you don't exploit and cover you may potentially just see less body fat with the GH in play. But to me, I, you know, this, this whole unaballixer equal products, fuck off. If they were they would never have developed the alternatives in the first place. They were in a stop for one. Yeah, exactly. And I know for a damn fact from personal experience that in the case. So yeah, no test definitely tests on those choices, test I personally think. My scale would be test test and mast test and pre-mo. Yeah, how about how about 250 tests, 250 DACA versus 500 test? I think the deck in my edge it. Little more. But I do think the dosing couldn't be a fact to hear. How about 250 tests in 250 and a draw per week? Obviously, and a draw split up orally per day. So it'd be like 35 or something. Say federally. Oh. Basically taking that 250 test replacement with 250 draw. So the, well, to be fair, I think that's an unfair advantage because 25 total test is going to give a greater unaballixed than the 250 and 50 and of our day. I'm sorry, Oxford 35, obviously, daily for this simple reason is that's 35 milligrams of day over a constant 500 milligrams of, you know, over a day in the weeks now. But the total plasma level of animal lakes at 500 milligrams of test is going to be way above the total because the out of the oxy is in and out in a day. Yeah. So you're not getting a compound in effect? How about 250 test? What? 250 trend? But having, oh, that would definitely more on that one. But having that, if someone can maximize the strength gains from the, Oxford, sorry, from the, yeah, the opposite, yeah. Yeah, I'm getting fucking mixed up today. Then you could actually see a progress, this a little bit greater than the chemical advantage, just because the fact that it's significantly going to increase strength on its own. I'll take that. I'll take that. Here was that question. I just started 300 mass 300 pre-mo. Think it about pulling my test and going to 20 milligrams of debaul a day. Any thoughts on how long I could handle this cycle? It's interesting, huh? I think you run into eastern general problems within six to eight weeks. In fact, probably sooner. Too much? No, not at all. Man, what about the metal estrogen from the 20 debaul? Pretty good. I don't think you see enough. Not against 300 mega of pre-mo, 300 mega master. Oh, you think you're going to block your conversion? Because you've, you've not only got the AI effects of pre-mo, you've also got the receptable looking from master as well. That's quite a dose against 20 meg, 20 meg, people. I know it's daily, but I still don't think you see enough. Yeah. I'd be interested to hear if he does it. I let us know. I think we've got combo, you'd potentially run into low-eached Chinese use on free-and-read mega tests to be honest. Oh, I think that's possible. You know, depending on the individual, yeah? Yeah, that's all that individual sensitivity. Stuff is shared as well, but yeah. Yeah. I work with a guy who, he's a guy who was dealing with like super-hyper-electin. Got that under control, but at 140 tests, his estrogen is at like well over 300. And he, which I wouldn't necessarily even issue with, but he doesn't feel great on that. Like you, he's like low-lebito, stuff like that. We are going to try leaving the test where it is and adding in some pre-mo. And see how he does with it. Thankfully, he had a stash of pre-mo so he doesn't have to rely on trying to find a new supply of it. You know? Hmm. That's your numbers, you know, 150 being top-end. He's at like three something. And it's just feeling off to him. Having you tried your glucone? We've messed around with that. Nice, something I think? Yeah, he's, I think, meeting, he's got an interesting situation. You know, sometimes there's those exceptions to the rule. Oh, always. Yeah. He is definitely a, like a far exception. In fact, I'm even kind of thinking with him. He might do okay with like 300 pre-mo 300 EQ 150 test. We're going to find out that we're only going to add in one thing at a time, you know, with the test. And is he, is he so free-negative from the high-eachage and or is it more of a number three and a number three and a number three? Yeah, no, yeah, he doesn't feel, libido is low and he doesn't feel great on it, you know? Something's, something's off for him. And it's, it's been a long-term thing for him. So we're trying to get to the bottom of that. All right, what about using a statin to control LDL during the cycle? From a point of view of theory and effect, yeah, would, it would work. You know what, I don't understand. We completely honest with you because I, I'm hesitant to use drugs if we don't need them. And I'd much rather, we've talked about it. You've mentioned it numerous times day of a people-heading scene the show, where like between your cycles get that cholesterol into a good place, knowing that it's going to get adulterated on cycle. You know, there's that aspect and I, I've been able to find good success with that overall to the point where we haven't needed statins. One of the side effects of statins is heart attack and stroke if you come off of them. Now, is that a side effect because your body's, your cholesterol gets, like, crazy after you've come off of it? Or is it that you needed a statin because your cholesterol was so crappy and now it's going back to what it was, leading you to have a higher risk of heart attack and stroke. Me, don't I, man? There are people that genetically will suffer with elevated LDL irrespective of how clean their diet is. Sure. So there is that element, port. LDL being a major problem from metabolic use isn't something I genuinely see if diets in point. The main issue I see from metabolic use is the reduction of HDL. Yes, and a vowel increase LDL and certain unavikes will have a more impact on raising LDL, but most people will control the LDL with their diet. And I'd have pushed something like Reggie's rice or nice, nice. So for someone, my brain, I mean those are disrespectful to the person who's asked the question in the slightest, but my brain or my legos is, is this just because you can't be asked or in your diet? Because they said, someone to genuinely avail the LDL problems that they can't manage through diet and basic supplementation, I find to be very rare. I have had a few people that have been there, but in general, most people can manage it quite well, we just have an adhesive diet and those that have problems, ED issues, usually because their diet's not where it needs to be. Now, I'm not saying, I'm not going to start with a pedal and say, your diet should be perfect, you should manage it with diet, because the drug is this, the drug is there and the drug does low LDL and if you can't be asked or in your diet out, then yes, you could medicate some of that risk away by using statins. But statins aren't the safest compound on the planet, either, they can have quite a substantial list of side effects and issues with statins is quite common. In fact, when people are prescribed, statins, very often they may have to try three or four different ones before they find one that they can get along with. So, you know, it's not without these problems and I would start a considered it maybe in this case the cure could be as bad as the problem. When really all you need to do is sort your diet out. But at the end of the day, he's still your choice to drug does low LDL and if that's when you use it for your option is there, but I would definitely ensure you are well aware of the negatives from statin use before you make that decision. Yes, okay Francis Doyle Francis Doyle sounds like he's from the UK. What do you think? That sounds like a... Oh god knows you young some weird names. Yeah, yeah. Like what? Oh, you sound like you should be from Ireland as Scotland, McNally. McNally? McNally. Okay. Francis Doyle says at 54 and thinking about doing a cycle of test at 400, master 400 with a oxy, deba and anovar. Oh, all of those. Would this be a good cycle for mass and strength? Any help would be appreciated. I say pick one and that's a lot of orals to be given in there. Pick one of them I don't sign up to this a little bit of everything approach that some people do. Some people swear by and say that you know particularly orals 10 of this 10 of that 10 of that is a really great compound. I prefer to just stick with one person. But each to the run. I would be more leaning towards test maths and some MPP with with this age of 54 or personal. Yeah, like that. I like that a lot. Yeah, I'd probably go 300, 300 and maybe 75 MPP three times a week as a star. I'd be a bit reluctant on the orals. It does depend on how the effect is up at height. But and also we's not given as an endorsement on the orals. So that's the other question there. Yeah. Or any information on what he's done previously? Is this a big jump up? Is this sort of in line with what he's used to doing? True. If he's asking us like I feel like if you've done a lot of gear, you're probably not asking us should I run 400 tests and 400 masks with an oral. Do you know what I mean? Like you already know. I bet you that he is newer and in that case, yeah, I think I think even just dang man, just 300 tests or 400 tests on its own would probably if that were the case, would probably do a lot for him 400 tests and 400 masks. You do a lot with that too. Yeah, if it's not given first cycle, then we'll go back to what we always say. Test is best. Yeah. Watching the podcast is always my favorite way to kill time at work. So does that mean he's like time thefting is that's the term for that. We're helping you. You're just you're most be shit. This is fitness with Chris by the way. Good man. Fitness with Chris. Thank you for watching and your boss deserves every minute that you are your hard worker you deserve to get to watch the show at the job. He says makes my Monday or Tuesday 10 times better. Hopefully looking forward to seeing Dave getting my blood's done at eBay at fit expo this weekend. I'm not there. I'm at the PC at Universe in Whole. You love the pleasure of my wife. Did you just laugh at him? He was like, hey, I genuinely like the show. I want to come out and really meet you Dave and you're like, ha ha soccer. I won't be there. Is that what you just did? Yeah, I'm baso. You're going to meet Mrs. Crossland. This is much natural. Yeah, she is. Unfortunately, we've had to split up because we've got the PCI Universe on the same weekend. So I am in old for my sins. Though I am speaking of physics on the morning. What are you doing? Speaking. So basically, this is a bit of an eye. We've got to Charles going to bolt into physics with Simon, Charlie and a friend of us. They're taking the trailer. Okay. The trailer hire companies, rugers today and say the big trailer we normally have. We have to have a smaller one which might mean I might have to run to bolt and drop some stuff off because the mine are having enough room. Okay. Then I've got to go to Hall to Hall Saturday. Then I've got to come back to bolt and Saturday night. Take the stuff out for me or Saturday night. Then I've got to speak of physics on the morning. Then come back to Hall, finish off at Hall, then from Hall go to the lab with the blods and then come home and then Monday we're at all flex in rover. I stopped listening Dave. I'm going to be kidding me on this week. I stopped listening like four minutes ago. I just want to be. Is that, is that you think that's why that guy called me to see you next Tuesday because I say stuff like that? I agree with it. It's old enough. No. That sounds like a lot though. I was being kind of a jerk. Yeah. So I will be there some day morning to do a talk at 10 o'clock but I am literally running straight afterwards. So I do apologize for my absence but you will have my lovely Veda. You'll also have the joyous Zach on Saturday. Zach, how long will be there? Yeah Zach, I come with it and he's got his new diet in ebook out as well so I'll be up there. I'll be jumping them down about that. Is he bringing any ebook out? No. Why not? Because they're a handful. Zach's kind of a handful too so that makes total sense. Yes. Oh Dave says, please learn milligrams. I'm a bit of an outlier as I'd also add, please learn ester weights. 300 milligrams label test E. If correctly dosed is only 200 and 10 milligrams of active compound once the ester's cleaved off. Pretty much everyone is dosing their cycle wrong. You're doing it wrong guys. All of you. You're doing it wrong. I'm surprised this is never popped up as a subject on the show. We have talked about ester. It has and every piece of research ever done in the world is done on total weight as to where it's not considered when you're talking about antibiotics research at which is why we don't consider it. Yeah no you just know man you know you just know you just know like I'm taking 300 tests. If that's not doing what you wanted to do then guess what you do. Hope that that's you take 400. I didn't train. Yes, the trend. All right. I'm deeper. E 2 should convert to E 2 but it doesn't impact us. I'm using it now because mass disheartening it. So there was part of our main topic that was one of the reasons we had a number of people that were saying stuff like that. Linus Wilson says I think folks need to escalate doses slowly with blood work tracking at least total testing E 2. Big swings will likely result in big side effects regardless of the compound. Also you are just breaking your finger by pressing the elevator button as broader exercise jumping from 150 milligrams of test to 300 milligrams of test right away may not be necessary to make gains 200 might be good for the next three months. Technically right technically no I'm not so yeah I'm not I'm not disagreeing that I don't think a hundred 150 increases particularly significant when you look at blood plasma because if you say in that basically you're doubling you're circulating levels. So I'm not sure that a 50 milligrams is going to be that dramatic. It would depend on the individual now in point their diet and training is. I definitely don't think you need to track total test unless you've got concerns about the quality of the drug I think that's overkill you can do it if you want but I do think it's overkill. I don't think there's going to be any real knowledge gained from that you know you're dosing off your total milligrams is device to relate to what experiences you're having in the way of progress but knowing your eastern genie's handy for correct management definitely yeah I would say that from a muscular point of you 50 to 250 is not getting yield a huge amount but it will probably be beneficial in how you feel I think you'll get dramatic changes in how you feel but that's off of 150 to 200 yeah going from 150 to 200 yeah that's okay yeah and that's just assuming that everything else is managed correctly yeah so I think you'll probably get an impact in how you feel significantly but I don't think you're getting a huge impact in muscular changes and another thing is that when you start getting into higher doses the increases are much less impact in so for argument change between a thousand and twelve hundred is really noticeable or in this case between a thousand to a thousand and fifty would be nothing you know drop you you wouldn't know you wouldn't you might get that just simply by not measuring correctly a couple of your shots through the way you know so you know as you get into the higher doses the terms to see significant improvement due tend to have to be a little bit on the higher side yeah yeah I think you're right it's interesting Dave because you know years ago um people people were I feel like we always had the there's the attitude a lot of people were like hey hold hold on hold your horses we don't need to jump up that fast you know like guide us 500 and it says okay right now I'm gonna do a thousand you know so they're so they're yeah but you know now I almost feel like this may be in my personal opinion and this is just based off of experience too there's there there's nothing to tell us like oh no when you're doing a steroids cycle you need to increase from 150 to 300 in order to get enough like there's but I can tell you out of experience that you need enough of a jump to elicit that you know good super physiological blast like could you do better I agree with you man I bet you that if you'd always run say like you always did one fifty you know for whatever reason let's say one fifty puts you in range and now you add 50 and you went from a US you know 900 range to whatever you're slightly outside a range now you're probably feel better you probably will get better performance you for a while you know but I don't know if that's gonna be enough there's that minimum effect of dose conversation you know and I guess everybody's everybody's different and everybody has their own perceptions of what it takes but I I just in my experience and when I say my experience I'm talking about coaching full time for the last decade and five years before that's a 15 years of experience seeing people transform their physique literally thousands of individuals and I would personally say and just my experience with those people and myself I don't think that going from 150 to 300 to create a super physiological effect is crazy talk by any means in fact I would say that it's you know health wise I don't see there being much difference maybe you might need a little bit more management you know going to outside of that normal range doubling your dose maybe your estrogen is going to be a little bit higher than it would have been you know it 200 but it might not even be a problem for you I just yeah project tends to do his doses on milligrams per kilo anyway okay so it's weight driven with him and he prefers a high TRT or 200 300 anyway so I'm not sure on that from I think the problem with all of this is that the nature of people involved is in this really years extremes sure so we go to extremes and both ends and what tends to happen is we go extremes one way and then that triggers a cowherd for ends up being extreme in the opposite way and I agree that you want to be using the minimum to get the job done always the minimum to get the job done but I also think that you know going from a 150 dose which for a lot of people is going to like you say put them at top into an actual range or just above going to 200 is going to have the same negative health wise as going from 150 to 300 but you're going to see a much more productive cycle at the 300 dose and you are at the 200 dose yeah yeah that's my personal opinion anyway I decide with that I could see I agree with that man it's it's like the yeah you know when we've talked about like an of our see or a low dose of any or a 510 milligrams that yeah you're going to see a performance benefit but you're you're not going to see the muscle growth that we're looking for out of that super physiological the because that's a thing man is that we're looking to build this up to a drug like level you know well that's the other thing is you know what are you expecting what are you happy with you know if you're wanting a few pound of muscle then then crack on that's fine yeah if you're wanting you know my my biggy scales and my biggy cycle was over 50 pounds better light it is a lot and it it was painful doing it but at the same in lots of different ways but I bet that's growing like your own sex sites injection sites food train in the whole lot just that rapid weight game as well but so you know it a lot of it is as well what are your expectations what are you looking to achieve because there are people that all you can't gain more than something pound of muscle you have no you just got trained out you're funny it's you know that you can achieve more than people realize but it's safe isn't it we're not a failure if we have all these these nice rules the mean we don't have to work out and we don't have to achieve anything and we could still be clustered from Kristen. Bullocks. Bullocks. This Dave says, Bullocks guys a couple more here I didn't think you could donate blood if you're taking antibiotics at least in the UK that would disqualify you from donating blood now. Yes that is correct but any injectable drug user even tattoo is going to disqualify from donating blood but there are services where you can have a blood let which is the same thing and the blood is destroyed not use for anything. Also there's this little thing called mine that you can do. Scott please actually you know what in the UK now they start doing finger prick hemoglobin checks. Oh they do that here. If they're high they won't let you donate. Yeah they do that here too. So yeah but you can do I mean evildozy but I would not be anyone there are plenty of what this is the do it as well. Skip got turned away one time so I got turned away because my hemoglobin and it was too high and they told me now you get out of here you gear user they didn't know maybe they probably knew. I was a figure at the time. Skip got turned away because in the U.S. if you're donating blood you're not allowed to do that for therapeutic purposes. And Skip is a talker so you get him if he gets up to the register at the grocery store he's like oh and how's your day and blah blah blah and he's like I don't even care what her day is like I don't even care but I just been sitting at my house working on my computer all day and since so he starts it was kind of my skip accent. So he gets to it's close. I can do a if you give me time I can work into a good skip. Anyway here's the deal he is getting his blood drawn right either taking the blood out and he starts opening his mouth and he's like yeah you know so my doctor told me that I should come in and do this because it's good for my health and you know my numbers are a little bit hot and they're like oh wait you're why are you here and he's like yeah you know my get my blood numbers down. Hey well let's see if I don't have the blood's usable it's still donations so what is not on you got to do it out of the goodness of your heart only if it's for medical purposes for health they can't do it so she said oh I'll be right back and then she came over with somebody else and they pulled that knee right out of his arm patched him up and they're like we can't do this you gotta go home mid mid blood dump. That don't make any sense to me it's all. No yeah yeah you're not allowed to here for therapy it purposes. If the blood is viable what differences it make around the reason the blood donation benefit they have blood stock you benefit you get rid of some blood I don't see the issue I understand the issue it bluts too thick because he said not viable for use there's a donation sample but if the blood's viable for donation I don't see the cause it makes any fucking difference good. Yeah I think it's because it's a medical perpetrator like I think it yeah I don't know man you know whatever yeah but that's the deal just don't tell them that's what it comes down to. Oh we had one more good question here Dave says okay better update that transmission I'm not sure Dave knows as much about power to rear end transmission ratio as he does about injectable juice the power he's talking about will vomit a stock transmission in the street yard sale parts scattered everywhere. Right so quick rundown the engine is currently sitting at about 586 on the crank okay roughly got 17% power drop to the rear wheel through the drive train when the pro charge goes on it will be sitting at around high 7s to 800 crank and about 650 rear wheel okay the transmission in that truck is a ZF8 HP 70 that will handle around 700 rear wheel. Okay so it will take the power at that point granted it is going to be close to its limit I'm not going to be hard launching for very obvious reasons the car is not going to be the truck is not going to be set up for that type of driving anyway however the transmission is then on the cards to be rebuilt I have somebody in mind but it's just finances willing so yes I am aware and I have done some research and I have spoken to the powers to be the specialise in Dodge Rams basically what I can put through it what I can put through it and what my limitations are with driving but the engine build and the pro charge said it should be good that around a thousand crank if I want to go there maybe slightly higher under drive chain is in no way capable of handling that. And you did tell me before we've talked about it off the area like I don't know a lot about this stuff I'm just learning you want to talk to people that know more than you know. I'm deliberately keeping the ties I stock but I don't want to do a conversion to like a down or a T rear end or anything like that so I am going to be upgrading the shafts, UJs, ring and pinion and diff but again the real problem is when you are hard launching I'm these truckies not going to be launched hard at any point. Logging hard does that mean like ripping it off the go? Yeah because it won't grip there's no way over that back actually it's a big deal. So the idea is to have a car that will perform from sort of 50-60 mile an hour rolling. Oh okay okay you could always put some sandbags in the back Dave. No I'm not bothered about that I've kind of a car if I want to make sell the right heart. You just might be fun man just like like, like don't hit somewhere no. That's how you wreck transmissions. Yeah oh I could imagine man I could imagine. You got yes if I was a valid point but it has been considered. You got any advice for us today? You think Uncle Dave's wisdom? No nothing not nothing not acting I'm sorry I'm so Dave was at the dentist today guys. He literally came straight to the dentist he was like alright mate I'm home. He might even use those exact words because he's British. No I haven't got any doves advice. Okay I haven't even considered it at the moment. Well you'll have two weeks to think about it now. You got weed off playing golf but you need a giant. These off playing golf next week. I still a golf car. We totally totally do the show next week if it wasn't for Dave. But Dave won't. You know he told me you were off and then I was I because I actually got to be Dave's. I thought it was this week I couldn't do it and I realized now it's next week. Yes so I'll try to do something guys I'll put out and ask me anything. We'll do we'll do a live ask me anything the following one day so I am weak from the time you guys are seeing this so ask us got for his beauty regime and then do the complete fucking opposite. The opposite of that all the things ask me about how I like grew up and lived in my life to get where I am today I would probably take the first 25 years and do the opposite of all of those things. I just got lucky you know right at the tail end just kind of swung around you know and I did okay I'm still here you know things are not falling apart but it could have gone either way so yeah definitely I like that idea. I have some Dave's advice I've just thought something. Oh did you? No. All right which got for us. Caffeine drink as much caffeine as you can. Lied to your doctor about your hermaticrit. Get your sh- All these things. Caffeine. Oh were you going to say that drink caffeine? Drink caffeine. Oh I thought this is going to be like a legit thing where you're like guys you need to stop thinking about you know you need to not do not do it. No it's just a legit thing drink caffeine it's good for you. I thought it was going to be like guys you got to really cut back on your coffee and taking there's too much caffeine being used throughout the world there's this many kilograms of caffeine. Oh I'm just saying you're heart. Well she called the coffee guys we like yeah we love you as a matter of fact and we appreciate you tuning in as always leave us questions and comments for the next show tell us how we are wrong in every way that we are wrong we appreciate that you know helps to boost us up in the algorithm but we do appreciate you guys tuning in and hanging with us especially if you got this far into the show. It's a matter of fact Dave you know what CUBA's been doing on the show at the period of management. Oh yeah oh we could have gotten a man about it. It's just my statement. God what is CUBA being doing. CUBA's been saying like hey if you listened all the way this far through comment with a specific word to let us know that you saw this far into the show because not everybody watches the whole thing not everybody gets this far though by now they would turn this off you know found Fuhad or something better. It was a body built in the amount I don't know yeah Fuhad or something else. Watching crazy chat videos and you saw it. You can see that there's calling somebody out he's calling out you know Mike is her tell again you know they got to check that stuff out much more important. What's one word is Mike still being bunkers as he calmed down oh I don't know man I don't follow that I think I think it's an act anyway I don't think any of that's real you know I mean yeah maybe it is but it's also like it's a you know it's reality TV you know what I'm saying yeah I don't know comment with the word bogus bullies bullies oh no don't say bullies you know what dude somebody wrote boobies and so YouTube will automatically like take something that they think was not supposed to like like it was just a spam comment and they'll not show it and then I have to go through and find it and approve it it's like the it's weird man I don't know how about yeah say bonkers bonkers. Well they think that's a weird comment then. I don't know they might do it who knows with these freaking people. The earth is flop there you go. Okay one more thing did you ever hear the operator syndrome? I told you about that special forces video I it turned out not to be a great video wasn't mercy acting too for us but this guy was talking about how in the military in the special forces people they're getting more in line with prescribing TRT and recognizing the need for testosterone replacement in the military and they're starting to get more on board with that but they have a term for those high speed dudes that are you know just adrenaline overload in low testosterone they call it operator syndrome. I believe cops get it too. You know when you think something and you think I don't know whatever I read this I'm sure I've read this or heard this but you may have just made it open the dream and you had to be like when I said that hip surgeries were $10,000 you mean like that yeah I'm sure I read a piece on the American military looking at testosterone supplementation for soldiers from a point of view of elevated levels. Super soldiers. Yes, super soldiers. 200 to 250 milligrams per week. TRT. TRT. That's a TRT. That's a secret. Oh dude I wouldn't want to fight soldiers on TRT. Would you? You know what I'm saying like if you had your choice if you had your choice there's like a bunch of soldiers and they've all got the same guns as all these other soldiers but the other soldiers are on TRT. I don't want to fight the TRT soldiers you know what I'm saying TRT. That's right. And a side of halo. Yeah guys we'll be back. Leave us questions for the next show we appreciate you. David are you taking any new clients right now? I am yes. We showed you mentioned earlier in the show. Yeah because by this time we've only got three people left. I know well that's we're putting the weight on them those three people need to sign up right now. Yes I definitely have coaching space available at the moment. Bill is course is starting. More than well bed scores is starting pretty much straight away. So people are jumping on that as well if they want. All right reach out to Dave guys we got it as Instagram down below hit me up. McNally diets at jameel.com. Go to strom sport nutrition and check out strom in the US apparently also go over to truetutrition.com. Use our code think over there get yourself some protein some creatine and everything else they've got all your basic body building supplements as well as supplements sourced.ca 4 Canadians like I great deals it changed week. Thank you to everybody from Patreon and Eval blood analysis guys. Go over and get a thumb in the bum over at Eval this next week with jamey giant and Dave during this prostate screening guys we're another episode of podcast. Drugs and stuff we'll see you in the next video.

What's all this nonsense? Look at there's like one with pretzels and options. Yeah, yeah Yeah, that's a problem. You wanted to top. Yeah. Ooh It's a whole I could do without the picture the guy I Like a sexy woman make it in a girl. Yeah There's a little messy I want to see a little makeup running but anyways Too far too far. Sorry. That's good. Yeah, we're good. Maybe we'll not finish kidding I haven't said anything. I've just said we are with in YouTube's guidelines Everybody welcome to it's just bodybuilding big-round parlor here with dusty handsha and the producer Scomic Naly of course like share subscribe comment and ring the bell Yes, maximum algorithms member everybody you've got to hit those things for us to help us recover from all the misdevues We had while we were gone. We had that little little little little stutter step there You know, yeah, yeah, the little nap we had and you know we got to get the push get the push get the momentum going Everything's going so good. So well, thanks for everybody for all that remember I am mutant.com Go to iam mutant.com get your isle surge get your all in and everyone should get on the gear dusty 20 Big-round 20 use either code save 20% okay guys what what's up? What's new? What are we doing here? Well, we're doing primarily the Q and A thing and yeah something came up this week that I wanted to get into right away was the importance of quality check-in photos for you guys and myself of course when clients are working with us and and what you expect to see why it's important and all of that Yeah, we talked about that the other like maybe not too long ago, but we didn't cover everything we could and we didn't have Nearly naked pictures of round which we do today. So well, I Yeah, well, no, hey you guys feel free to send a few in I just wanted to put my money where my mouth was if I'm gonna harp at people for progress pictures I want to be able to say that like hey Like here's here's my point. Okay. This is a progress picture that I took for my coach. This is 2006 Yeah, this is it in the the boxing room at the gym and amitin hardcore gym This was taken on I like a camera Right me so taking on a camera and then uploaded into a computer Pulled off the camera attached to an email and sent to my coach who was Scott Abel at the time Who did a great job that year I came in and graduated and see But but my point here is it everyone now has the most incredible technology in their hand you have these four k phones that just send the most Incredible quality images There is absolutely no excuse for your check in photos to be crap Like you have no you almost have to go out of your way to send bad photos of yourself and it's it's So it's such a waste of everyone's time stop doing it send better pictures how good was that photo Just fine good lighting. It's not that hard This one's not hard and this is just so this is 2010 ish and I would have sent this photo to Chris if it's 2010 okay, and this is just in my old kitchen in my old townhouse in amitin And I took all my photos there all my morning photos this would have been probably a night photo judging by the amount of light Yeah, but I took all my all my morning pictures were great there and then all my night photos were pretty great You could still see my glutes and hands. It's a little shadowy, but those night photos were good Chris could see what was going on He could see how full I was you could see strations coming across my back and everything so the point is he could look at these photos And be like oh, I know where it runs at yeah, you know always pretty full last night We'll see what the morning pictures look like you know like he he could really get a good sense of how I looked and And we've all expressed our frustration when we when we have a hard time getting accurate photos from clients Well, I think the biggest thing That drives me crazy is is is as an athlete for myself I could see what I look like In the mirrors and the good lighting and the jam in all these places and One of my houses that I lived at during my time with Chris there was literally no good lighting in the house It was weird lights in the there was no lights coming off of like both of my front and back Portures were covered patio's like it was it was a nightmare But I was that was not an excuse to not get him good pictures so I used to drive to the gym Every time when he had pictures me I had a friend who would meet me at the gym just to take my photos and We would leave because I Wanted them perfect and it was before the the age of you know Set-up the the timer's working or all those things like I Wanted them so good that he just did me the favor of coming with me to take the pictures and I point that out because it's like it blows my man people I don't have good lighting, right? I'm like It's not worth the trip to the gym where you can't do it before you training like there's no where in the history of the world It's worth you getting me pictures to accurately help you prep for a show and I'm telling you it is And normally important it's like I want to feel like I was with someone there you go exactly you got this this hard it's this hard now Yeah, like I just for the audio people ran just show to a small ring light. Yes This seems to my view Yeah, but no, it's not about the size It's actually I mean his lighting is better than mine. I have a huge ring light here, but it's just But it doesn't work after time. Yeah, that tape around it But no, I just I thought it was important because I had a client somebody pictures the other day and Two things happened number one. I opened them up and they were so bad I actually asked him I said did you look at these and he was like yeah, and I'm like why did you send them? Because they're so bad. I can't judge what you look like and one thing I want you all to realize and this is a great client And he lists his the show so I'm not hammering Uh-oh, I mean general, but I have to point it out because I was so irritated I wanted to say like as a coach When someone doesn't take the time to give me good pictures I immediately wonder what I can't see that they're also not doing well Like are you really taking their sets the hell in back? Are you? Possibly adding you know when when I ask you to have 200 grams of rice and it's two 15. Do you just eat it? Like Those questions answer me because I would never send my coach terrible pictures because he's all of his decisions are made based on those So I really think it's important that people understand that because if not listen You might just just tell me your weight and kind of tell me in your eyes how good or not good You look and just don't send pictures at all and we'll wing it right right right You know because it is that bad. I mean like wrong you said on that in that night picture and you're Plus is a lighting perfect No because it's dark but you I can see your hands your calves on the right side I can see your full back so I see enough Whereas if it was a little darker and then I couldn't see his hamstrings at all and his glutes I'd be like Ron these pictures aren't good enough. I can't see it But you can see what he's worked with to make decisions and that's enormously important because I've been there with clients where I see them at a show or something and one of two things happens They're leaner than I thought them like oh man I should pump the brakes your pictures don't show this for their father and I'm like oh shit We have eight weeks of prep left in 12 weeks of work to do yeah Because your pictures don't depict what's happening you know what I mean So it is really really important and I hope people will take the time because I've found a ring light in a dark room Set up directly in front of you. You're good. That's fine. Yeah So I'm a problem. You know I realized I made a mistake as a coach and that is this and I've never said this on the show before Maybe I'm just coming to realize it now that it early on the pictures are not quite as important You know like as we close into a show like those first sets of pics I see what you look like. I know we need to get the scale moving and it isn't as important But but then as you do move on it gets more critical and there comes a point that I'll say to This is the way I've historically worked there comes a point that I say like hey We got to do better pictures now. Yeah, that's really get this together But anymore I've been taking that to like just out the gate like hey and if if they aren't what they want them to be I usually tell people nowadays like I'll say hey Can we you know I'll give them some instructions and and then if they if they try that out and it's still not right I'll say hey this looks good but next time Let's try moving that camera down a little bit your head looks huge and your feet look tiny You know what I mean or whatever we need to or pull it back I want to be able to see you from foot to head you know stuff like that But yeah, I used to I used to like let it ride if it wasn't as important But there comes that point that like you really need to see all those details you know Yeah, sure, yeah, and I see what you mean about like the you know the first like someone who's 40 pounds overweight Right isn't looking to compete the pictures aren't as important But you save yourself time if you set them up with good habits off the start because then later down the road When they do need to take better pictures if you know You don't have to teach them at that point and you just save yourself the time So I don't know what you mean Hey guys I was just looking through the Facebook group by the way if anybody's not a member over there and you do Facebook group check out the think big group James Stocks didn't had a head a question for the group and I went to throw it at you guys So none of us are currently prepping anymore, but he says When you were in prep Or generally focusing on controlling your diet, which I guess we we all do that He says what's your guilty pleasure food? He said personally I've always been a donate guy crispy cream when they are hot and fresh or gods gift to man That's freaking classic well I think well right now how I eat is like basically super clean like super you know the behavior behaving body builder and then I have a little bit of ice cream every night So it's like that little bit ice cream I have every night just makes me feel like I don't I don't died at all like just regular ice cream is not like a special low sugar. No, no, although although I will announce that I just got a ninja creamy Yes, one family and I made some mutinisal surge in almond milk and egg whites with a bit of nut butter in there And I I froze that and I creamy that up with an ninja and it was insanely good It was like I was eating ice cream I couldn't believe how it turned out So I'm like that we're one day into this and I was I had my socks blown off with the first batch that I made and it had nothing like it was total Diet formula I wasn't trying to make it, you know Like Trump a butter finger in it. No, like if you if you put like if you put like like real cream in it and like ice cream ingredients You make real ice cream like I never heard of the thing what is this My base they do a podcast if you guys You got it you got it you got here. I'm gonna send you an idea of how far behind your Scott. Yeah, we have had one broken one and replaced It went around so yeah, there are there a thing I just found out about air fryer's like a year and a half ago So give me come be some school of every about five years behind on everything that's cool Yeah No man it blew me away like it was good I stopped at my friend Aaron's house and went to visit my buddy Aaron jewel old buddy of mine Yeah, and he's one of those he's like me. He's also like you know retired old old school body builder And he goes heavy had an inch of creamy I'm like no So he opens his freezer and he pulls out one that's made with like banana iso And he's like you got to have this and I started eating it and I ate the whole thing. It was like Oh, I'm broken now Let me see this is a video you sent me, huh? Yeah, yeah, I sent it. You see if I can play the video here Yeah, it's super loud It's like the loudest blender you've ever heard you're like holy cheese Wow, my neighbor calls Ryan use it. Yeah, so like a note no ninja after Ken Pianne rule your moments Yeah, you're neighborhood Here we go see for some No, there's no shooting guns after 10. Yes, so there's no sugar added no fat added or a boy put some nut by her in there But oh and it whip set up like it is like ice cream. It's an it's just a almond milk egg whites and way I salute with a bit of nut butter that's all I put in mind It was insane as the bomb. That looks really nice. So yeah, if you're like actually good You know, you want to use like other things in your recipes You can just make them like you know, have a crazy want yeah You don't have to go. I literally did water Chocolate ice a surge and peanut butter. Oh really you went water Yeah, and it was yes, so yeah, I mean you really and it wasn't I mean it wasn't that's trying to die I just don't have that in my house. So they're gonna add water. You haven't good to go So yeah, yeah, those things are awesome for sure So anyways back to the question guilty pleasure Scott. What is yours? Real for ten minutes and don't answer questions. That's why we are terrible for I'm gonna derail a step further because when you guys said crispy creams or he said crispy creams I thought about this thing I heard you realize how many crispy creams get thrown out That like they don't they don't oh no, what's this so I guess this employee got in trouble Because he posted these pictures this is this is like Metro UK I think I don't know what that website is these are the crispy creams that we're getting thrown out They have so many that just like they I guess they I guess they don't they want them to be fresh right? We have to be at certain level of freshness. Yeah. Yeah, so there's a lot of crispy creams getting thrown out I wanted to bring that there was attention first and and second I wanted to tell you guys at story Oh, yes, I remember dieting when I worked for the soda company I'm conforming to everybody else in the US and pop pop company. Yeah, the pop company pop company I remember seeing this and it wasn't even a good cookie There was like this wafer cookie and it was on the floor out of the package and it was just sitting there grocery room or grocery store, you know right on on the floor and it was sitting there and I was very far into the diet And now there was no moment that I was actually gonna pick it up and eat it But the thought that came to my head was I better if I did it would taste just as good as any other cookie There'd be nothing wrong with that and I bet you'd be okay and I better be okay Like I literally had that thought like hey I bet that would taste just as good There'd be nothing wrong with it and then there's like a little bit There's that little bit of your brain that goes and you know Because it's off the ground It's technically not really like not a lot anymore It's like a painful like real calories. It's almost exactly Incidental calories that you ingest That moving Moving through the world I had was you know Like yeah, that wouldn't count you know I didn't really impact it. I didn't intentionally purchase it Yeah, I love that your guilty pleasure something you didn't eat Yeah, I had a lot of good guilt for thinking about eating a cookie Is a moment he'll never forget Yeah, it's like a closest he came in his life You know, sorry, just to tell somebody yeah if he was religious he would have told us is Pastor about it like I got to talk to you so I do this now most cheated on your wife no my dad No More So here's the reality of it so I like variety So there's no single one thing I like the freedom knowing that I'm gonna get to eat something You know that's off plan and it's gonna be something It's it's got to be it's some level of constraint size wise I can't go out and get like an entire sheet cake, right? But I'd go to the grocery store especially looking the middle of summer when it's hot You're probably on a bunch of clan and everything else and it's nice and cool in there You know, I'm playing You know, I'm talking contest prep, you know You're all okay You did because it was July Okay, so I was for I found this cupcake one time and it was it had like this blue frosting on it and they had it look like Who was the blue guy from sesame street the Grover Grover yeah, no no It was cookie monster Yeah, so they had cookie monster on there and not only did you get the cupcake out of his mouth They had a little Oreo an Oreo cookie sticking out of it and it was like the really deep blue frosting You could see it from across the room so that was my snack that was my cheat meal That treat that I had and and here's the part that really got me I pooped blue for two days after that like It was so much food currying in that that like the water Turned like a tint of blue. I was like oh, that's amazing that can't be good for me But I thought to myself you know what one day I'm gonna tell that story in front of a lot of people on a podcast That's hilarious we found the day it was today Good to know good to know Uh That's all man all right, so I love cookie monster first off. I love the fact that Because you had already told the story about Finding a cookie on the ground. I'm going all in one day. I found a cupcake and I'm like why does he find things all the time What's the engagement in a store Like I'm excited to throw just something Like we go get a leave this time. He ate it. Yeah, I'm I'm going all in I'm going all in today guys. Yes, no my My here's what's funny and Ron Ron knows this and he's actually the same show it's terrible is My guilty pleasure is actually really simple which is After a show dead of off season retired if I go to dinner all I want to eat is steak and rice That's what I'm gonna order doesn't matter where we go I'm actually irritated if they don't have rice on the menu as an option to switch for what I have but the guilty pleasure is If they have a small pizza or flat bread, mm, that comes first Every single time you just order the flat bread the pizza whatever type you want That's your warmup and then you find yourself in an unmajured steak With rice and I usually ask for double rest because I'll usually throw it down for you And you're good to go but yeah, it is the it is the pizza warmup That gets it going you know I like to think I have something to do with that Yeah, it's just like there's other there's other things that I've come out of my mouth where dusty said Oh, you're becoming me and then there's there's a couple things or dust is like I really like a good flat bread before my steak I'm like I think I started to do that. I just started that yeah, yeah, I'm like We're hanging out at Earls and there it was yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's something like that But yeah, those are the gems but as far as like a bad thing air quote My favorite dessert Just carecate but not any carecate. It has to be awesome and there's actually a place and there's one of There used to go pick it up after a prep and just bring it home. I'd go to a high-end steak I was in buy just the care cake Right, but to give you an idea I brought it home one night and before I ate the entire thing I was like should probably weigh this Yeah, it was just shy of two pounds Yeah, I was like yeah, yeah, I mean I was like no one can eat this except yeah Yeah So now I was I wish I had literally with about to like scrounge through old pictures to find it because it's you know I mean it literally is like that tall you know, yeah, like did they have like the the cream cheese frosting on it? Oh, I mean that's the always knew eat it. Yeah, it's all a lie just a transport cream cheese frosting to your mouth the rest is nonsense I think at this stage so there's no shows like coming up next week So we can talk about these things openly, but I feel like too far into the seas We need to get out of our systems now because we would but people have to shut us off, you know, right Right, yeah, that keeps the street eye. It's right about now. Yeah, yeah Yeah, it's not everybody though. That's not a funny game Because Nikki will Request to make desserts or dinners at the house all the time right now. Oh, she's one of those people, huh? Yeah, yes, she's like I'm gonna make you cookies. I don't know do this like I told her to tell the Arnold I wanted to not eat anymore like home meals okay, and like as a first time in our entire leash But I thought she was a little mad at me. I was like Right, I'm like that's her. She's like what am I gonna make? I'm like, I don't know make it for the other guy shit About this one Nathan Scott had another one over at the group. I'm actually screencap it here. So first of all He says uh, I'm in the army and I'm looking for a way to still hit my protein glow while in the field for a month at a time I've been dehydrating steak into jerky and that's probably what my plan is going to be my question is Would eating five meals of jerky for a month? But that be bad He says in my head it's just steak Well technically it's just just steak like I mean unless he runs into some kind of like issue for another reason like You know, I don't know. I mean can you make it out of other meat too? Can he can he do some turkey jerky? So it doesn't get just completely fried on steak. You know, that's that's where I could be that'd be my first concern My first also jaw health from yeah, yeah five washing. Yeah, you don't really have a way I see in there Like jaw muscle back here. Yeah Yeah, yeah, I mean you can do anything you can do anything for months Yeah, bring protein powder with you, right? Yeah, yeah get some way. I so yeah do your thing Yeah, I would definitely protein powder over five like because you can remember this is meals Yeah, yeah, and I don't know how to figure out the macros of jerky since it's cooked down so far You know that's back to our topic of Wade before after cooked well. This is beyond jerky's jerky's that it's only You know it's only 10,000 of Yeah, no, you'll get a few Yeah, it's really dense. It's really dense. I forget what the what the percentage is but it's it's compact You know, you need a ton of jerky to get you know 40 grams of protein The sodium I'd watch out for that. I don't I mean since he's making it himself Almost need to add salt to his meals. Yeah, right? You know he won't need a salt shake or if he's eating jerky Yeah, well, I guess he's making it so he can determine how much salt he puts on it But I've talked to guys before who have been deployed and that they're they're trying to do you know I mean I've seen talk to guys that were in like Iraq and stuff and people who were in places For they're like hey, I can get anything I want at the pharmacy But I can't get good quality protein and they'd be in some can't eat right they'd be like in some country where like I remember One guy was telling me that like the merchants in town had like basically fake protein that they would break it down with other things to try to you know scammed the the US soldiers and stuff like that But I mean you guys I mean I I wonder what he has too. I mean I'm sure there's probably going to be some solid food there egg whites But I think though a lot of that stuff the the food they prepare is so calorie dense and you're probably going to need more calories too I'm guessing if you're out of the field, you know so I know for myself If I'm traveling I'm probably even if I had all my protein with me I feel like I'm always at some level under eating so if I were to have any kind of extra food just it might not be clean It might not be perfect but just to get enough in I might push that up with like I mean obviously he's not doing a burger but traveling like with a burger or something like yeah, yeah, yeah for sure Yeah, I almost always lose weight traveling. Yeah, so Dusty did you have some stuff oh? Yes, I have more a lot of the stuff that I pulled through here were just things that that I could kind of run them through um so first one that I had was When you guys are prepping someone for a contest and and you have zero care of their enjoyment of life This is about results What is it you guys see or look for that makes you decide that they need a higher day or a cheat meal when I say higher day higher calories And that's too full one to speak it's a good question but two because Obviously Ron and I and I don't know how early you started to scop but like cheat meals weren't a thing When I started bodybuilding like you started a prepping it only got worse and then it ended like there was no Reprieve ever so just curious how you guys go about that and I pointed out not being funny But the the life part because for everyday clients like I asked them to have meals because I want them to have a life And there's a way to Maintain both but when you're in prep for 20 weeks or whatever it is I don't really care if your life is great my job is to make sure you come and nasty and win Yeah, so what do you guys do? Well, I think before you need a high day or cheat meal whatever like there's you know kind of the same strategy essentially You have to be quite lean like If you had a veins popping in straightions coming out in certain muscle groups and you have to have also made a lot of progress like if you if you start dieting at 240 and you're 230 too you do not need any sort of Refeed at all like let's let's okay Start dieting at 240. Let's see under 220 Like let's get you down like are you radically different looking than you were You know 20 pounds ago okay you might you know how's your performance now? How's your strength? How's your pumps? All that stuff should be good I mean this is all assuming you set the diet up with you know half a brain to begin with but You know if I mean you know like with most people the first half of their diet They have with me typically the first half there are no there's nothing Ever all that comes in the last half when they're getting really lean and like You know we start like sort of throttling up and down a little more and like Play with carbs more and the more the more it's a lot more adjustments near the end you know like so yeah I would say most people don't need one and You know you should have made quite a bit of progress before you need one you know Yeah, what the rest of my performance I would say so it might be different for somebody who's competing versus a non-competitor If there's some Yeah Yeah, I just was thinking coaching wise so just in general so yeah, but yeah for a competitor We're gonna do whatever it takes first and it and it depends on the person You know, there's a real rare person that I've worked with who just burns through everything and and he might Start getting a cheat meal like the second or third week like and we almost use it as part of the plan Like hey there's the day we're gonna load back up fuel back up and we might be able to ride that right into the show you know I'm gonna say you're more average person I'm with you Ron that you're just gonna have to you're gonna have to wait and the other thing is is that I probably don't want to have a cheat meal as your loading meal into a show You know, we're probably gonna want to actually do it in some sort of clean controlled fashion so what I try to explain to people is Every time we do some type of a load or a high day whatever that We're kind of testing out how you respond So we're gonna have somebody check in like let let let's say it's Monday and we're working toward a Depletion and then we're probably gonna plan a high day around Friday or something like that and I'll say hey Why don't you check back in on Thursday right because if I know him well enough and I know we're probably gonna do it Friday I might want to see him a little sooner than that say let me see what you look like on Thursday And let's figure we're still 10 12 whatever weeks out and then I I say you know like okay Yeah, let's do this high day tomorrow and then let's check in the next day and then we can kind of get an idea of Okay, how did your body respond to those those foods and this is something that if you're as a coach with your or as an athlete with your coach You guys are kind of in this constant conversation of knowing what your body is gonna do So that when we do get to the show, it's not a surprise You know like oh we're just gonna start throwing random stuff at you people eat muffins You know what I mean like for a show let's do that you know Let's let's figure it out so that the load is actually calculated and we're just gonna be like another day on the job Then basically by the time we actually get to the count this great at water is gonna be different But we'll have a much better idea What do you guys think about Is there a downside Because like for for me one thing I've discovered with clients is they start like looking Like so we're gonna have a hide it like we're gonna have a hide it like they're wondering and I feel like you know when I was Competing and I mean, I'm I'm really happy that now that's happening in my house like Nikki does not care she doesn't she wants to win yeah, that's it and I really think more people By coaches faults in some ways fall into habit of starting to look for it because like we'll probably have a treat meal soon or whatever Yeah, and I really don't think you should implement them to the point where clients are looking forward to them because Again, it's a 20 week prep if you never eat out for 20 weeks and you come in at your best who cares like And when you're really in shape When when your when when a pseudo calls and says hey today, we're adding 400 grams of rice to your normal day You're like yes, yeah, you don't care that it's not a cheeseburger You know what I mean? So I know I find that there's with you know and again, it's not for everyone But do you guys think that there are points where because it's become so popular and bodybuilding. It's a negative Yeah, well, there are some people that psychologically are terrible at all of this They might be physically they might be physically gifted at bodybuilding But they're psychologically just so terrible with food and it's such a hard battle for them constantly and every direction and then You know the go with the coach that uses a lot of cheat meals and it just it can I've I've seen like the worst of the worst You know what I mean? Some people just can't on handle that stuff You know like I know guys that like I've had clients are like hey You know like I got shredded a few times like eating those little mini rice cakes postwork up Oh, yeah, I kept those I kept those in my diet right up to contest a few times and I was in really great shape And I've had clients go hey, can we take those out? I can't have them in my house Yeah, I'm like oh, okay, you just can't do like I guess if I open a baggy the whole thing I'm like oh, okay, that's just weird to me like I just never occurred to me. I weighed them on You know So I'll go with you some times you go. That's weird Yeah, so you just say okay, I just will take those out when you just like just you know whatever whatever Plain rice if you want it's good to pay know that too though like you know as much as I joke like I bet that with peanut butter and some of them go I hate Evil can you choose that no, I'm sure We use X-Verjava like Same thing for me so fine. You know what I mean and they'll just say it they're like dude if you ask me to have 32 grams of peanut butter We have a problem. I'm like great and I'm glad that they tell me that because good to know your weaknesses, you know But I'm like you run. I'm like that would not the only issue I had with peanut butter back in the day was there's a pain in the ass to get the measurement Yeah, yeah, I was like this sucks Try to get it just right. I don't trust me. I don't trust people with peanut butter either I used to measure it by the tablespoon and I did I just like One level tablespoon 84 grams of peanut butter is one tablespoon. Yeah, yeah I'm holding my weight really well on this low-cowry diet. Yeah, yeah, but then you see their peanut butter consumption You're like oh geez You know three jars a week Yeah, yeah, that's the big deal. That's that's why I do it in grams. I'm like Yeah, I swear that's the first Now we're disprone with it on there. They get right That's Yeah, I'm glad you said that about because I do think it's a huge I Think that the mental side can actually weaken people who are strong if they start wanting that you know I just prefer I think I'm not that it's bad to have I never cared Chris used to use them But I honestly did not care and if anything I would be here take is you're so hungry That when he's like go have a double cheeseburger I'd go in there and I would eat it and not even know I ate it and walk out Because it takes like three seconds. I'm starving to death. I didn't taste it And it did nothing to my energy levels or anything so it was literally like Going difference to me because I was cheap was like that was $18. That sucks You really don't realize the like the like the psychological drive that food can be Even if you have like a healthy relationship to food and if you start bodybuilding like in a serious level You figure yeah, you figure it out like you really figure out just how much food has that importance, you know It's in it's in everything we do you know it's like you go on in a date what are you gonna do? You're gonna go out to eat we're gonna celebrate a birthday what are we gonna do we're gonna have cake Just a Christmas what are we gonna do we're gonna get together and we're gonna eat so you take that away and then people are like oh Man, you know you start figuring that out you've start figuring it out pretty quick, but oh Yeah, I was gonna ask you dusty on that No, because we were asked a little while ago Ron you talked about trying to hold on to every freaking rep that you could when we were dieting and dusty your strength was such an Important factor with DC training and we did that whole DC training progressive overlap well not really DC, but it was like the progressive overload Special edition episode people freaking loved that by the way How did that how did that play out in a diet phase because you were so into chasing progression in one way or another How did that work out is like you were in a calorie deficit and getting weaker? ah This part sucks for podcast because I can't use this for my clients. I never got weaker I guess ever I'd be like Don say it would literally because I'd be posting videos. She's like you got it back down I'd be four weeks out No, not hold 720 today. He's like don't do that and the reason it's not it's not something like superhuman So I don't want to be like oh wow whatever It's because back again as on the most gear That's a good thing that time period yeah because my off seasons like that's it people would always argue oh you know You don't I did very little not none not just here to you, but very little in the off seasons So here I am the close try got to the show the more things I was taking You know plus my entire life was flawless around bodybuilding. I can't stress that enough for most people Is my I mean I ate at the same time I probably chewed every bite the same down. I never killed myself during a prep only in the off season I did that once um You know it's it's the scenario where I really think that that was the difference and when I went to the gym it wasn't It wasn't it never even occurred to me to get weaker and I think that is where most people get weaker Because I've had clients you'll start up I mean they're 16% body fat you're a week and a half in though again I'm feeling the dialo so the strength's down I'm like no you're not fatty But you're not you decided your weaker and you have to get that I had plus you know and Ron and I were the same I didn't know cardio in the off season so my cardiovascular condition was up my food was perfect my sleep was what it was Which was always terrible, but it was it was something I focused on my my routine before the gym was perfect Everything was lined up to be great so the only thing removed was food and I think that that's why because even now It's amazing to me how much wind affects sets People don't think of that. Oh, yeah, I was you know I ran out strength and I'm like nah I watched you you ran out of wind I was a set of 12 and a 10 you were gas didn't became an oxygen issue more than a strength issue So yeah for me that was not a thing but it definitely in hindsight made me look at How much better my training could have been if I'd have been that obsessive with all those other things in the off season because I was I was good but I mean of my entire career there was only two years I could say I literally did not make a mistake four three hundred sixty five days Like I ate what Chris told me and those are the two years that I did the best and that's something I pressed to people Like I'm not saying to not have balance but I could tell you when I had no balance is when I got my best results So what do you want to do? Like that answer and we after you said the gear thing that made total sense like as you were seeing it I was like oh, I bet that's what it was Yeah, yeah, it's really simple. It's you know It's funny and I can say this now because I you know everybody knows I've I've mentioned that I started taking some things just for fun One that he was in prep and I bet it's I haven't in years and Ron you would have this now too You start to downplay what gear does when you're doing it all the time And you don't right you're not trying to lie It's just you're kind of used to it and so having not touched over TRT for like three years and then like more than doubling it And I remember I was like I don't think you're like this is amazing I mean I walk in the gym and I and not even just the strength of lifting like when I walk in the gym and I'm like I'm chatting with the front desk people and our daughter works there and we walk around and I look at a bar my mind was Yeah, and I'm like oh that's what this does and I'm because I'm so far removed from it I was like I mean I literally told her I was like I had no idea That this stuff is this impressive Now I see why people get and but again if I ran it for you know on and off for two years Three years I would get back to like you should be good either way. It's like I should but it's definitely better You know so yeah, it was definitely an interesting thing and and retrospect when you've been removed I'm like I forgot that's all it was I just forgot oh yeah it works We're wondering never mind it. It's definitely pretty interesting. Yeah, yeah, I imagine I I've joked with you know some of the guys at the gym like How long would it take me to put on 30 pounds if I really wanted to you know Pretty quick It would be insane I was really you know I'll put like six pounds on just fullness if I just have too many cheat meals in a week You know like the other day I want to know what it's saying up where we get me screwed I had some subway cookies the other day and I went to the gym to train chest and biceps, you know Yeah, whatever it was shoulders and triceps that's what it was and I probably had five people to gym go. What did you eat? Like you look like crazy fall today. I'm like I had subway cookies. I kid was like hilarious There's this multiple people So it's the new subway cookie like a flunk cookie They have no that's what they ask me all the things You got it. I haven't had one either. I'm like I know subway like a decade, but I might have to make up I mean My heart I got it look it got scott's googling. He doesn't make it something. I got to see what this thing looks like We're have you and you really don't watch I don't watch no. Yeah, so okay. Here's the picture right now Right that's a foot long Yeah, that's a proper measurement ladies. I'm sure of it Anyways exactly she's on it and just but anyway What's all this time since look at there's like one with pretzels and options. Yeah, yeah That's probably one of the top. Yeah. Yeah, it's a whole I could do without the picture the guy Um Could have done without that if we just like a sexy woman make it in her all Like a bear's a little messy I want to see a little makeup running but anyways Too far too far search mascara Yeah, maybe one of them is kind of hey, I haven't sent anything I've just said we are with in YouTube's guidelines I've got like one foot definitely over that line currently I really bad for taking part for some reason I brought by default just jumps on you like you've not about to it and then I was like, I was too much Yeah, I'm sorry Hand also in this picture behind her never mind Yeah, sorry, sorry, sorry, Mr. and Shaw we'd like to speak to you about your marketing I don't know this is thought okay, so back on track for another question for you guys They get and these are prep questions for clients Okay, at what point you start asking for more pictures because I know that that's I took it off of Chris eventually over time But like it is pretty funny. It's like oh check in every seven days. Are getting fun. cherry two okay check in every two hours Just yeah, I Well typically it's once a week and then When you get into like I don't know what's real prep like 14 weeks 12 weeks out, you know you start yeah, I don't know somewhere in there and the maybe in the the teens somewhere You get twice a week, you know, and then it just depends like some people It just nothing they just change every set of photos and they just you know two pounds two pounds three pounds two pounds 1.5 two pounds 1.5 two pounds it's just and then other people it's like huh Well, so me maybe we'll do you know the two three sets a week or four sets a week or I I remember one time My weight stopped moving was the first time I worked with Chris 2010 my weight stopped moving and we were six weeks out and I was getting a little bit like huh I need to I need to change here. He hasn't you know he hasn't changed anything and I was starting to worry that maybe I wasn't ahead, you know as I call you know and then So I just said to my like what do you want to do any goes ask two pictures every single day And I was like oh oh we're just going right to that and then we just did pictures every single day for the last six weeks all the way to the show You know and I wound up like you know in really great shape is one of my best ever looks first time I worked with Chris and I was like He just yeah, he was like oh everything was going really good and then it just stopped going good. So this is pictures every day You know we we had the same thing but it was actually reverse Where My lowest weight during prep was a certain number of weeks out. I don't remember what it was and my stage weight was 10 pounds of both of that And again, that's back to the hormonal side and we had you know bump to growth up and things But I remember like we started taking pictures often because we didn't discuss it But your head even though you know the scale isn't everything you kind of It's going the right way You know what I mean yeah, but you look at the pictures and you're like but I'm getting harder so it's fine But it's definitely a mental mass when you see that because you're like I remember Chris finally he texted me one day He goes you are awesome at getting sliced, but you suck at losing weight That's like that's a win What about you Scott like how do you I know I know I know it's hard to answer because it is and then but I mean do you base it on Is it ever out of I guess I just word it for myself sometimes I do it because I don't want things to go too far like someone's really Crank it along exactly that too that's it. I'm like Well, if I let him go for four days we might go too far. Yeah Oh, that's a weight every day. I'll say wait every morning. Yeah, because it'll start clicking and you realize like I mean You don't want to be five days into like what was one day because you know Ron you you asked us the other day Wrongly cages asked for like a in person like what are you seeing and I'm like oh things are definitely better You know not life changing but better and then like two days pass I was like A lot has happened A lot has taken place and then he'll see the pictures and it was funny because the other day She sent pictures Sunday or whatever and you said I don't really say anything because You look fine you look at the way you're supposed to you know and we walked in I'm like haven't thought it looked stupid in the rear double's way better and that was all I said No, I was late my breakfast and then I was like what are on say she goes Haven't thought it's way better and rear double's way better. I'm like okay But it's like far out of she now That's Seven and half yeah, okay, yeah, okay, yeah, yeah, yeah, nice. It's it's getting fun now. It's the point where I'm like Every every day. I'm like oh that wasn't there yesterday and we have a lot I mean, there's still plenty to do Yeah, I mean as you know any stretch but it's fun part where you're like oh that's Almost grainy in the shoulder today. Okay. Yeah, yeah starting to get that look So here's what I would say when do I start to have people check in more frequently so like you guys It is pretty much I think my answer is the same but I'll try to say it in a little bit of a different way They yeah then You know we start out every week right or somewhere close to that and then as things as we get closer There's gonna be some whatever we need to do with the diet is probably gonna determine that you know As you're depleting I probably want to make like you said dusty I don't want to wait too long to fill back out for instance So I might say I know that we're gonna we're gonna probably Need to fill you out by this weekend, but let's see you a few couple days before that you know that's where it would start And then maybe from there we start going to every five days you know every five days and then after you fill back out So then it becomes twice a week and then it just kind of progresses from there But I'm not sure where it's at but I usually have people it's usually around like that seven eight week period I have people send all their check-ins on email and it's not time sensitive Any changes that we're gonna do you're gonna apply tomorrow and so I'll do podcasting stuff in the morning and then I get back to those people in the afternoon But anything beyond that if you're getting closer if you're eight weeks out then we need to start going to text and then I have people start texting their pictures in the morning So I can get back to them right away You know and I mean, but I don't have everybody do that year around texting me pictures right? It's too much to it's too much for me to handle you know and I'm saying just like running your life based off of Somebody else is eating schedule so by the time they're done with the show then I'm like, oh man, this is weird because I'm not getting all those texts that I was just morning Yeah exactly I do all I do all e-mail because I like to have my little tracking of the answer in the correspondence Oh, yeah, I'm morning routine is to go through and and who's how far out and those get answered first I still email them back to like I'll have a text for the picture Yeah, and then that way I see it and then I do like a PDF so then I'm like all right Email sent or whatever, you know diet and then they check that and grab it or whatever I have a funny story to tell you guys about like the my my first big show when I had a prep coach Ron might know this but So we start like coming to the end and trying to get real nasty so This was really really old school so I was eating six meals a day Five of them were to lapping and one was salmon Okay, and So he says to me I come in I see him one day and he goes all right listen we're gonna we're into plea you really hard and so I can you tomorrow Just have the tolapia for the five meals and just have the salmon no greens and I was like okay Yeah, so I do it I come in the next day and he hasn't repose and Can you do another day? I'm like Sure So this goes on every day and Finally on the after my fifth day of doing just meat I mean, I'm I'm definitely in pain and like I said this is my first time so it was definitely it was harder than I'm used to oh and He was all right tomorrow we're gonna start filling back up so let's you know he adds the carbs back in and I say hey Jay I'm not questioning you I go but I can't really tell I said what what was it? You were looking for to see change in these five days that you finally saw today each day Yeah, because obviously there's a progression he goes oh nothing he goes I need the whole time We're doing five but I know I couldn't ask you for that up front I was like yeah Yeah It would be way too hard to tell you I needed five days like this. I just asked you to do him one at a time I'll make you prick That's fun Yeah, you can see like Ron said just a few minutes ago like you could do anything for a day Yeah, so it is easy when you're like yeah I just gotta get through today. Yep, and then tomorrow and then also you're a week You're a week and a half out so when he asks for one more tomorrow you're like it's only Right I can ask we're not dying you know what I mean so I learned a lot from that prep just because of the mindset because you really realize like The amount of people that that I've heard through other coaches stuff are like I can't and I'm like Yes, you can yeah, you can't Like you can't not eat for a day Less calories mean I don't think that most of us Who are fortunate to do this realize that our brutal diets are more food than a lot of people ever seeing a day Oh, yeah, that's the That's the the bottom line that I tried to always go back to like I I would always remind myself of that like every time things got really hairy with like you know Just like losing your mind being hungry and stuff I would just try to remember like you know look at the stats of how many people don't eat breakfast and And how many people can afford to like you know Bim meat from the supermarket at all and you know percentage of the population that went without eating meat for You know more than three days on the planet at a time you know like it's It's just realized yeah, you're just like your your your your your torture as hobby is such a privilege Right Is right remind yourself of that you're dying in telling people you're dying, but you're also eating 60 ounces of meat a day right One thing I always always remember to is I've mentioned before how I saw like One year Mike Menser like an old Mike Menser interview got reprinted and he was talking about his diet for the Olympia And it was the 1980 Olympia where like he arguably looked his best I guess one of Mike Menser's best looks and some people thought he should have won you know There was that controversy in all that But his diet to get lean real quick because he did a keto diet he would just drop into like hard ketosis and just melt fat off it was just Yeah, absolutely no fear and his calories would be really low And he would just plummet into it no fear and he would hold his strength because of how he trained it wasn't crazy Hi volume so he wasn't like yeah totally you know He wasn't like frying himself into oblivion. He was just training really hard with lower low volume and and I just would remember like well Mike Menser used to go down to like like 800 calories So my like my my 2000 calories is a joke Right like and I would just remember that it'd be like I'm still eating like you know Over twice as much as Mike Menser used to diet on and like yeah, I'm not just gonna suffer through this, you know And just try to remind yourself of something worse find some some perspective to take where it makes it seem easy Yeah, I told you that was the the aceto effect when I did that year and he told me about having stage four cancer and Yeah, he explained this out where he said You guys I would never be an appointment my life that I would have the the nerve to think of doing two things at once So he's I got to wake up in the morning and I'd say I need to go to the bathroom Okay, and after I spend a month time to convince myself to go do that I go to the bathroom and then I would P and he goes if I had the energy while in the bathroom I would then decide if I could brush my teeth But I would never say I need to go to the bathroom pee and brush my teeth because that's too much too much I didn't realize he was that bad. Oh yeah, yeah He said like answer you can't be like he's supposed yeah, I can't remember I looked it up at the time So don't kill me in a nut but it was like 14% of people who have it survive Wow, yeah, he had a melanoma a bad melanoma Okay, he said the first day he did interfere on which was like the What's it called chemo drug? Yeah, the first day he did is interfere on treatment He went home and he just collapsed on the couch and he was like oh my god this drug's gonna kill me Wow, and he said there was just so brutal. Yeah, but yeah, he he used to say well It's not stage four yeah, so that became my that's that became my prep Things got yeah was he would ask how I felt so he told when you told me that story We were in a brutal my NASA's prep in my career and he said hey, I need you to do me a favor So he told me that story and he said I don't want you to think further than an hour in advance because he knew I had five retail stores and I was like it's too much He's like so when you wake up eight in the morning you're allowed to think about what you need to do between now and nine and Then it's such good good 10 and and So I was like okay cool and and it was brutal. I mean it was hard, but I remember every time he'd asked how are you feeling? I'd go it's not stage four and he just laughed That is such good coaching too that he knew that that would connect to you and he knew that you might you would probably get a head of yourself Otherwise, you know we're in about everything you had to do Yeah, it's a lot them. I think people need it. It's why it's important to have a better feel for your clients aren't He knew that how busy it was and stubborn So it's it's important to kind of slow some people down and other people need to boot in the house Yeah, you know, but it was it was definitely awesome That was my first you know perspective shift in my life because you're like, huh whoa Like to even I mean aim to this day as I tell this or I think like I don't think about paying and brushing my teeth and Like anything like are you kidding me and and when you break it down you're like you know that's real Yeah, yeah, I can't imagine being so tired that you know he said there's times he it would take 30 minutes while Half thing to go to the bathroom to convince himself to go do it because he was that tired Yeah, you know, so that's also why he lives the way he does and why he and I connect the way we do especially after me You know trying to die is He gets it like there's there's not time for sleeping eight hours a day and this should When you realize how short life is you're like no, no, no, no, I'm not wasting eight hours a day a sleep It's garbage That's I'd get your sleeping needs leave to the progress guys. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah Yeah, yeah You know, you're one thing because you guys asked you're asking like you know what what how off or when you when you increase frequency And there was another side to that too. Do you guys ever have people continue to check in more frequently even when there's nothing that like You know that they're on a good track You know you don't have to do anything There's a part of me. I just want to start seeing them more frequently and I was gonna say that the way I describe it is Being the passenger in a car and and there's a difference between just going for a ride and navigating and That you want to know like where you're at at all times and you want to know like you want to be able to just watch their body at a certain point You see it every day and Even if you know you weren't gonna have to make any changes There's just one picture one picture one check in is like a moment in time But when you start seeing them every day, there's this Unconscious processing that goes on where you're not even saying like oh you're looking a little bit better here than you were there You just start to get to know their bodies better by watching the movement of the day today. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, I could take a two clients That I have who go out of their way to update me Like clockwork all off season And they're like the most consistent you know a lot of people they don't even want coaching in the off season right like they just want coaching for Prep and then you know they save in their money or they're doing other things or whatever And then I can think of two guys said you know they just keep sending me their updates and they have the best off season They're the guys who have gotten the biggest and they have a size on and and almost like just having me to send their photos to is like a Good like Goal marker for them every week or accountability and then and then I just sit back in the videos just keep getting better And then just keep getting heavier and stronger and Just oh you've been what you're doing. It's just that reassert assurance, you know, because then I think without that Maybe they will like oh I'm gonna try something new Yeah, yeah, they'll let me saw this new video about this thing But when they're checking in with me and I just keep saying hey man this is ridiculous off season like to just keep this going They're like oh yeah, I'm not gonna change anything, you know, yeah, so it's what you don't do Sometimes people don't do that like Almost all of my clients are you around because they won yeah, yeah, yeah, the change and that's how I was like I christian never stopped we would maybe go a little longer But I paid up front for the year so it didn't affect me But with my clients I want every five days because I also just want I want to touch base like you said it's not about Listen, you're the off season we're probably fine like you're not gonna look drastically different But I do want to explain to you communicating how's the strength? I always will say I know I'm a broken record, but I swear I'm actually doing my job How is the strength this week? Yeah, yeah So I know that you know and it sounds funny because it sounds like you just keep saying the same thing but like no I'm really need to know you know because that's a progression sign You know one of the most important cause the recovery you know it's out I remind of all the time I always say this but I'm gonna say it again Training as the biggest focus we have how is it going you know so that stuff is it is enormous But I always like to too just because Like it like you said Scott it's part of what I do and it makes sure like I'm not Missing because even even when you were very obsessive like when I'm paying you 253 dollars a month I'm not missing meals. I'm not gonna pay you and then yeah, I was like going to a restaurant ordering a meal paying and walking out You forgot to eat it like you know, but it is easy to let it slip away here and there when you're not doing that and sometimes The financial accountability alone Keeps you locked in and that's probably why like you said we're on a lot of your clients to stay Get the best results. It's not that the other people aren't committed. It's just you don't really realize like For the longest time I used to write down my what I ate every day Just to make sure I never had to write down five meals when they're supposed to be seven Right, it just kept me obsessive because I caught myself at one point where I was like Had a good week of eating and I started thinking back and I was like I missed five meals this week But I thought I was doing well and I didn't catch it until I kind of had my weight stalled and I'm looking and I'm like why might not change it? I've been doing good and then you start really thinking I'm like no I haven't yeah I've been missing four or five meals a week I was eating seven at a time for weeks when they'll wonder I'm not changing and that's like you tell a client when I was like whoa something should change like yeah What should change you should follow the fucking plan Yeah So I thought at that point of my crush I started writing out my own meals like I was a two-year-old and just making sure There it is and so I had pages and pages of the same day every day. Yeah, I have a bunch of log books It just all look identical to three-diculars So it keeps you locked in you know Yeah, yep What do you think Scott? Is that enough? I got there. Yeah, yeah, I think so I've got one more thing. I wanted to I wanted to give in RIP to my good Dave Calig that we lost this past week and instead of making it sad I wanted to tell two quick stories about Dave because Dave was like the coolest guy in the world He really was number one. He was a big metal guy So I know you didn't know him really well really well-run but you guys would have connected and you would have talked about Metal for like you would gone on with you for hours. Okay, so story number one is 2017 when I went out to Los Angeles and I was gonna do the Titan Classic whatever it's called and and I do my depletion workout to Gold's jam and Since I only was gonna train like a couple three times I think It was cheaper to get day passes each time I went in then it was to get the week pass and these things are like 30 bucks per day pass So I'm paying a day pass every time I come in and on my last day Dave was gonna meet me there Dave lived in another part of LA and he was gonna drive out and Come in and take a look at me and we're gonna hang out for a while so Dave shows up I'm getting my wallet out and We just walk right in we don't stop at the counter the guy's at the counter like Dave and everybody in the gym just lights up Is like hey, what's up Dave and and I was like oh wow when you're with Dave Cali get gold's gym You don't have to pay you just walk right through the doors wow You know, you know, it's everybody here. So that's story number one and we had a good time I have a video somewhere we recorded about like what his plans were with his athletes and stuff like over in the the chair area and stuff that day But then the other one was 2019 I believe it was at the the Olympia meet the Olympians and I was walking around trying to do like little interviews with people And Dave was going there. He was like he was gonna go one of the reasons was because he knew I was gonna be there We're gonna be able to Connect so so we did that and I find him when there's like 30 minutes left and I wasn't able to find Brandon curry Yeah, and I was like oh man. I got it interview Brandon, you know, this is I know he's gonna do good here I got to talk to Brandon and he was like oh, okay cool. I'll walk with you So 30 minutes I couldn't get Dave to move more than 500 feet We would walk five feet and then somebody at the table every table literally I'm not kidding you literally everybody at every table. I stopped Dave Because they wanted to say hi to him. He literally knew Everybody in the sport he got backstage at every show never had a press pass or anything like that He's backstage at the Olympia, you know like he's just Dave was at every show and he was like just the coolest fucking guy And I'm gonna miss him a lot Absolutely he was cool. He loved bodybuilding that was a thing Dave absolutely Love bodybuilding. You know it's good about Dave it from from and I didn't know him well But I knew him from meeting him at golds and something I dislike about bodybuilding So when I got into motorcycles again People immediately like rally around what do you need you have questions oh this guy does this like They just like open up their roll of decks for you and they're like let's help you do the Second yeah, yeah, you know, so I mean I am like I had a little service down at the dealership A guy I knew and now I call a friend. He was like what are you doing? No, no, you got to call this guy and now you're saving money Embodially they don't do that a lot of us and I'm gonna say us just because it's fitting Someone new comes in there You don't you don't naturally want to like take him in like you should When I trained at golds Venice in the beginning I started going in there He was the first person who had I never met he just walked up How you doing? I'm Dave Bobba-Bla let me know if you need anything Or if you wanted to wear anything is in the gym because gold is big yeah, and you you definitely had to kind of like wander around at first to figure it out Yeah, and I never needed to think from him I was at that point in realizes, but I was in there with Chris Corrier and But just the fact that that was his attitude like he knew of me and that was all he needed Let me know if you knew and you and then you would see him and you realize like that wasn't me I wasn't special that was Dave Yeah, he did you know oh, this is a new body but if he didn't know me he probably would have done the same thing I don't know you and I own this place so let me introduce myself You know where's I feel like a lot of something I dislike about bodybuilding is when you go into a gym Particularly if they don't know who you are and you see the big guy He's immediately bothered that you're there. Oh, yeah, and I'm like I'm not here to piss in your sandbox. Oh, man. I just want to use the weights and leave and I prefer the opposite Which is like hey, how you doing? I mean, okay, need something you know it definitely shows who you are better And that was Literally Dave and like you said any time I'd run into him anywhere It only problem was I I'm always like a little bit late as Ron knows and I'm like Dave you're gonna have to walk with me bro because we're I got it We can't stop to have this conversation, but we can definitely have it. Yeah He is one of those people. He is he loved the sport and he he was really genuine and like Helping people and celebrating people and we talked we sometimes we just talked about bodybuilding You know and we talked about it was cool because I got to see pictures of like Dorian Haywood and stuff These last few years and Adam you know while they're getting ready It he'd ask me what do you think of this what do you think about doing that or tell me you know what it just he got so freaking excited And guys like Stan McQuay he did such great work, you know here and all those people who worked with him They were also like that same best friend level, you know He he he treated everybody like a brother and he is is really cool and I think you hit something dusty that That's what I think should be celebrated in our sport because there are people like him and it reminds me that I want to be Always be that kind of person myself, you know a great a hundred Well That was good that was good and never got to meet him, but I traveled in a lot of the same circles and I Believe I may have hey not met Dave, you know As soon as I saw who who when you know you guys Started talking and I looked I was like I know this guy, but I don't know this guy, but I know this guy Yeah, oh this guy this guy was everywhere And so yeah, yeah, I wish I would have known him more so well great words fellas Thanks for another episode of of the show. We're happy. It's rolling and we're good to see that I'm happy to see the episode that we posted right before the little sleep we took I'm happy to see that it got a few more thousand views nice You know what I mean like we kind of got jipped that one I was I was upset. I was like Well, we did get several thousand views on the YouTube be channel, but I took that down So there were a lot of people that saw it there and we did questions guys. We need I'm telling you late more questions at last five minute crew We need questions Yeah, it is out so remember YouTube questions get get Preferents and also patreon questions. Yeah, so thank big bodybuilding patreon Keep a producer home. Remember I am mutant.com Dusty 20 big round 20 use the codes guys save 20% get the mutant sent right to your door the ship fast They are super fast get your ice asserted get your all in everyone should get on the gear Remember like share subscribe comment and ring the bell Absolutely otherwise gentleman remember it's just bodybuilding

Now, a little, he was in the pumping iron. He was about 275. OK. That was in the 70s, of course, 1975. But here we are now 20 years later. And he was using the new supplements that were available. And yeah, now he was over 300 pounds. I mean, probably way over 300 pounds. Probably like 320, 330. So yeah, much, much bigger than he ever was before. You know, what's going on, guys? Welcome back to Think Big Body Building Media. And I am back today with Body Building Historian John Hanson. What's going on, man? Hey, he's got a high-done buddy. Great to have you back. People really have enjoyed the reaction videos we've done. And I'm excited for this one today. This is, what is it? Standing tall with Lou Froigno. What? What is this? What year was this? This was filmed in preparation for the 94 Masters Mr. Olympia. So it was kind of like a pumping iron, like take off, I guess. And it shows Lou coming back to Body Building. Actually, he came back two years before this when he went to Mr. Olympia 92, 93. And then I think he realized he wasn't going to win the Mr. Olympia because he just was too old and, you know, he's going up against Kevin Le Veroni and Dorian and John Ray. Those guys are much younger, better genetics. So the rumor I heard is that he talked Joe Weater in a creating this Master's Mr. Olympia contest. So he didn't have the title of Mr. Olympia. Okay. You know, no one's going to beat him because he looks fantastic for over 40. So he trained really hard in 94 to win the Master's Mr. Olympia. But as we know, Robby Robinson beat him at the contest and Lou got seconds. All right. Yes, it makes for good documentary and guys. Yeah, literally like how they prepare for the show. And I think Boyer Cole also was featured in the documentary as well. All right. We'll see about that. And guys, if you're new to our content, let me encourage you to subscribe and hit the bell. We have several bodybuilding podcasts that come out each week, tons of education and entertainment. All of our programming is brought to you by Tritutrition.com. Us are called Think for Additional Savings. We are brought to you by SupplementSource.ca for Canadians. And of course, we're brought to you by everybody from Patreon. Thank you guys for all your support over there. And reach out to John if you guys want to do any coaching with him. You can reach out to me as well. John, what's the best way to get a hold of you? Oh, the website is John Hanson. Okay. Cool. Check out John's podcast too. So quality here is not necessarily the greatest, but I still could tell you that that was a new base enough of watching this right now because of the hair and the body structure alone. You know what I mean? This looks like a really young Lou Ferrie, probably. It was probably 20, 21 years old or maybe younger. Okay. And now did he train somewhere at Worlds Gym? Did he train at Worlds? Yeah, so back in the early 90s, 80s, of course, too. They had Worlds Gym and they had Gold Gym, so there was pretty much two distinct camps. They had the Gold Gym crowd and the World Gym crowd. And Joe was good. Or Lou was good friends with Joe Gold, the owner of Worlds Gym. So him and Arnold and Franco, they all trained at Worlds Gym. Okay. Now here's that. That's Eddie Duley. What's next? See the same guy that jumped into Arnold's arms. So they're recreating the scene from Popeye. All right. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Good money for that. That's right. New Zone training. I used from Brooklyn and he used train with Lou back in the day. Okay. You got ready to come and train with him for his preparation for the Masters Olympia. How old is Lou here now? I probably was about 44 maybe. Okay. I think he was 42 when it came back in 92. Let's see. It was born in 51, so if we do the math, this is 94. So 43 maybe 42. All right. So not too old. You're still in a good place for bodybuilding in my 40s, you know? Yeah. But he had a long layoff. He was his last Mr. Olympia was 1975 when they filmed Pumping Iron. And he never even again until 1992. So that was a long layoff. Did he start the Hulk and everything? Okay. So he started an incredible Hulk at that time. Yeah. Okay. He was supposed to go in Olympia in 77 and he was in California all year training for the Mr. Olympia. And it was the first time he moved to California because he lived in New York this whole life. And he was like a couple weeks out from the Olympia and then they gave him this offer to do the Hulk. So he dropped out of the Olympia. And I think he could have probably won the Olympia that year because he was really looking good. Everybody thought it was going to be between him and Robbie and then Frank Zayn ended up winning. Okay. Okay. Yeah man that incredible Hulk role I think is where he really became a household name. You know what I mean? Yeah. Peel and down. Four to ten pounds. Six feet five inches. Making Lou the largest body builder to have ever competed. Assisted by his best friend, Ayurban Kovsky. Lou has emerged from a 19 year retirement. And these years masters Olympia. The main reason why I came back is to tell I want people to think I would have passed them. I really want to turn just into my ultimate dream to be a world champion again. That's over the age of 40. You could have never want me to appear and I want to be the best. The reason why people want to be mature to live here because they want to say I am the best build man on the planet. The world, the best of the best. They only want this to limp here. You can be misuse or you can be misuse or you can be misuse or you can be misuse or you can go with the national. But misuse or limp here means you are number one. Let's go. Wait there's one Mr. Olympia but he's also the master's Olympia is what he's going for here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He didn't release me last. Yeah. The master's Olympia is really a simple goal of professional body building. It was an idea that Joe Weater had thought about for a really long time and it was the bring back only former greats who had been in a previous Olympia. What it was was to get all these all time greats that many of the people remembered going back is much as 20 or 25 years. To get him on stage again. Yeah. Yeah. It's a long one. Zero. Well, I think I can tell the understanding if anyone wants to come back and compete in the missed all the good competition. It is just a very Arnold Schwarzenegger. It looks like young seven-time Mr. Olympia. You know, to come back out of retirement and to get back into the swing again and to get that momentum going in the rhythm going of training and to create the hunger, which is the most important thing to the will and the hunger to train four or five hours a day in the beginning. You get to the number. They did what? They did what? Arnold looks like someone. How he did in Terminator 2. He does, doesn't he? Yeah. You would do it. That is the kind of will and hunger that you need. See about lose age? He's four years older. Four years older. So he's in his mid four years of 20. Yeah. You can lose the competition. So that's the most dangerous thing to do. He's to go back and maybe not create that hunger and that will anymore. And I think that's the obstacle that Lou Ferigna has to overcome. One thing of the unstange you want to be in the best shape, but everything is then the mind. So I thought I would hire and I put together. No one knows better than two of us. But I put myself in a position. Okay. I'm not going to fight with you for the contest. You see, I really need some to do tell me. But if a path I will fight with him because I want to make sure to be a winner of the Magnumite Heavy Body Pot, I oppose him. I'll say I'll be a workout. We'll check my clock with. But the most important thing is just time to peer the years to go. It's your mind. Put it in the mind and do it that nothing could have stopped. But if you got pain, you'll work around pain, you'll wrap with your eyes. You've got to do it. So it's been the three jerks in saying it there. You have to fold them. You're going to do it. It looks very good. I like it. The limit more of a line. A little bit of a stretch. Try to do it. You're going to do it. First I think it's a real exciting contest. I know that I know I'm going to be really, I'm just really anxious to go see it. I was originally in front of a bodybuilding journalist. I said that Wayne Demilius said he wants to keep it to just former Olympia contenders. You want people that have been in the Olympia. What we're going to see now is people that you've read about for years and years and magazines for the competitors. They're really hype in this thing. So it's going to be like a high school reunion. It's going to be really great. And for the rest of us, I probably have to hold back tears because it's going to be like seeing my old friends up there again. People I used to compete with people that I read about and I interviewed years and years ago. It's going to be really nice. Yeah, down competed a lot in my late 60s, early 70s. He had a pretty good physique very fiasco. I don't think he ever competed in the IFBB. He was doing more like the AAU and then he went to the WBBG Dan Lourry's organization. I never even heard of the WBBG. Dan Lourry was like a rival of Joe Weader. And then his own magazine, Muscle Training Illustrated, and then he had his own organization called WBBG. And he had a called like Mr. Olympus, which was like, I think he was really Olympia. Yeah, yeah. Where were they at? Was that also out of like Los Angeles area? New York, I think. New York. Okay. Yeah. WBBG. You've never heard of them company. Mr. Worth. Or where you've seen him to feet blue and win the masters of Olympia title. I like that machine. Yeah. That's one of my favorite machines from Hammer's Things. I don't like the Closquer Pando. I like that one. Exactly what he's doing. I just maybe my technique would look a little different. Trying to keep my chest worth the pad. Just really great for the lower lats. For me, it's something that I've always wanted to do. I mean, being big and strong goes as far back as I was five years old. I used to either buy the bodybuilding magazines when I had money and when I didn't have money, I'd steal them from the grocery store and look at the pictures. And I remember it had to been five years old because I couldn't read. All I could do was look at the pictures. But at that time, that's, and I wasn't, at that time really clear that you used to wait to build a big strong body like that. I just knew that when I grew up, that's what I wanted to look like. I recall my grandfather had a barber shop. And I used to shine shoes in his barber shop. You know, when I was 14, 15 years old. And I used to tell people who I'd be shining their shoes that I was going to be Mr. America one day. And these guys would politely look down from their newspaper and nod their heads. And I'm sure they had no idea what to help Mr. America even was. Much less this skinny little kid in front shining their shoes is going to be Mr. America. But I believed in myself. And I think a lot of that has to do from basically everything where was he for us? A product. Louisiana. Okay, I heard that accent. I wasn't sure. My parents in school year. That sounds like you're going to be a Louisiana name. Yeah, right. So how old was he about at this time, if you remember John? I tackled the I continue to. He was about Arnold's age. So he was, okay, this is pretty clear. Okay, see you guys. I'm telling you, John knows literally freaking every detail about everybody building from this era, especially. I look like he's a great guy. I've had him on my bodybuilding legends podcast several times. He's very articulate, great stories, very honest, just a really good guy. Do me a favor, send me a link to one of those and I'll drop that in the description. So people can go and hear more from Boyer. Yeah, absolutely. And he's a great guy with Bronson. He and I are about the same size. We're about the same strength level. And he, again, is very determined. Has a high degree of intensity puts everything in his workout. He pushes me out push him. It's a friendly competition. Many times, if it's just him and I and the GM, we can go through the whole workout. But probably not saying more than, you know, how much weight you want on this exercise or something. Because we're so in tune with working out. The training is quite exciting. So, is he still in Louisiana here? Where's he at? He moved to California. I think in the late 70s. So he's, I think he's still in California to this day. Okay. This doesn't look like goals. It doesn't look like worlds either, does it? Yeah, it's another gym on the worst train. It looks like I have a dumbbell, so. Yeah. Yeah. Back in 1980. That's the boom came in there for a minute. Yeah. That's what he's doing. Well, Louis, Louis is just a big guy. I mean, if Louis didn't have the height that he had, you know, which obviously makes him stand out. I don't think he'd even notice. Well, for a whole time, if he's so much taller and bigger than everybody else, headhand undoubtedly, his he enjoys a great popularity because he was fortunate enough for me and I hope so. You know, it's he has a lot of press, but as far as being a bodybuilder than I say, that I'm fear or that I've learned about. Yeah, I'm not in the least in the other words, but he decided. He's got some thick arms. Come back. What did he do to us still? He did the size of his hands compared to his forearm and his arm. Yeah. So I'm going to say it's kind of like the father Kelly, this one. So this time it's like the father competing against him. It's like the own boot competing or the own leg competing against the young man. The old line never tells all the people. I think what they were trying to make war like the bad guy. Yeah, yeah. And they were kind of like creating a scenario like pumping iron did, you know, where the world I don't know if Blair would really sound like that, you know, to and if he was just being himself. You think they were like feeding them those lines that they're like, hey, we want you to kind of do this. We're going to make some entertainment. Yeah, I think probably they tried to create kind of like a doc huge arm, like pumping iron was where they tried to create these, you know, rivalry. And I don't even know if they knew Robbie was going in it because I don't think he's in this movie at all. So you're kidding me. I think Robbie was like kind of a last-minute entry. Yeah, yeah. A win for sure. And then Robbie came in and beat him with his incredible shape, you know, with a small waste and everything. Yeah. So it looks like he's doing it every here. I'm going to run forward just a little bit. See what this is all about. This is, this does not look like the show. Okay, mental weight, weight, mental weight. This is mental weight. This is mental weight. This is mental weight. This is mental weight. This is probably not the only thing that's probably not the only thing that's probably the one. Because I know after he competed in the 90th of Olympia, he was he was on the guest posing tour, you know, for a couple of years, you know. Okay. Do you ever see him, guest pose? No, I never did. No. Yeah. Would you have still been in the Chicago area at this time? Yes. Yeah. Okay. Man, I would have loved to have trained at Quads Jim back in the day. Yes. Back. That would have been cool. There. And what is the other one? U.S.A. Jim. U.S.A. Jim. That's what I was going. Oh, you're going to U.S.A. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Quads was a little bit far from me. So I was going to U.S.A. Chupsan off the lawn. Yeah. Yeah. I hear that's a rough area that he's in. Yeah. Southside of Chicago. Southside. Yeah. Every day I wake up. Every day I am cool. I bet I'm on. He was in the, um, bumpy iron. He was about 275. He was about 275. But, um, here we are now 20 years later. And, uh, he was using the new supplements that were available. Yeah. And, yeah. Now he was over 300 pounds. I mean, probably way over 300 pounds. Probably like 320, 330. You know, so. Yeah. Much, much, much bigger than he ever was before. You know. I'll tell you what, too, man. And you tell me what you think, John, because you have even more experience than me. But I, you know, I can tell you that I had to really push and eat hard to have the muscle I did in 2012. Um, then now, like, you know, by 2020, I, I really, I spent several years, basically like Lou pretty much retired from competing. Yeah. You know, focusing on the channel, focusing on my coaching and all of that. But obviously still training along the way, the muscle just keeps going on. You know what I mean? Even if you're not trying super hard. So I bet you that was a fact you're in to get older. Yeah. You what? I think your metabolism changes as you get older. And then you have some maturity, you know? Yeah. Yeah. So I see what they're doing here. They're really trying to hype him up as the favorite. And I guess it would have maybe been even a more successful documentary. He actually won the thing. Yeah. Yeah. You notice the camera angle like from behind of us that they did that in pumping our into. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Same angle, so I'm going to skip forward just a little bit here. We get back to some training. We want to be able to watch the whole thing in its entirety. So we're just going to skip forward a bit of time. Yeah. Back in the gym. Back in the gym. Okay. I think that's the way a few years ago. And I know he was really the final lose. Yeah. I think I'm not sure if he's in California at the time, but I think Lou might have been brought him out from the York just to train with them. Oh, no kidding. Manager of World Gym and longtime friend of Lou. There's a, you know, if anybody loves bodybuilding. If you, if you pick the top 10 guys that are in love with this bodybuilding game, from longevity, from longtime, from long span to the. He'd have to be way up there. You know, he's totally dedicated and in love with this. It's a part of his life, Louie. That never was fulfilled. If Louie wins or loses, he'll be. Louie will always be a champion. But he's doing now is fulfilling a dream. And the dream that is fulfilling, LB fulfilled in Louie's eyes. But that's what he's doing. He's fulfilling a personal dream of himself. As far as the people go, Louie is. And the same. Another planet. And so Louie is a superstar right now. Then we will always be a champion. Do you ever see him on that King of Queens TV show? Yeah, I did a couple times. Yeah. Yeah. He was kind of like a regular recurring kind of side character. Yeah. It's magical. Oh, he's awesome. If you really come down to body parts, it's just one good body part. I think he's his traps. That's it. You know, as far as boy or he's, he has everything, you know. A little distant of that. It's like a good all around package. The boy was probably coming back after like a senior layoff because he was in the 84 Olympia that that Lee Haney won. Okay. And I don't think he competed after that. So this was 94. So yeah, this was 10 years later. Okay. And doesn't have to, you know, like 200 pounds, 200 five pounds. And I remember for this show he was about 225 or 230. Okay. So I asked him on my podcast. I said, what did you do to get so much bigger? Yeah. He said he goes, I cut back on my training. I was doing more high intensity training. And he goes, I took a lot of growth hormone and steroids. Oh, right. They'll do it for you. Yeah. Because they had growth by then. But man, I bet it was freaking expensive in those days. Yeah, everybody was using synthetic growth hormone in 1990. So that's that accounts for the funny thing. Yeah. I remember seeing in the back of the magazine, John, where they used to have, you know, like you go in the back of flex and there'd be an ad, like, you know, call this number, or whatever, to get, you know, actual growth. Yeah. Yeah. And I called the number, man. I was like, man, I can't remember how old I was. But I was a kid still. And they were like, yeah, you know, we'll fly you, you know, you have to fly down to Cancun, Mexico, and we'll get you a prescription and the medications and send you home with it and everything. Obviously, there is no way I can afford that, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Man, that's the satisfaction I get on it. But it's the total result that you get from being the best you can be. Because I've got to look at content. Pretty big. And the content is all stuck to. Yeah. Very thick. Of some other people. It's only a week point was even have abdominals for somebody. You know, okay. But just weren't there. You know, everybody used to really criticize them about that. Is it he looks like he has a shorter torso. Yeah. He does. Yeah. And I think sometimes those guys with the shorter torso's, the, you tend to extend more and you tend to not have as much as, like, like, like a guy like Dennis Wolf being the opposite of that, you know, like long torso, highlights, kind of, you know, opposite shape. Well, I mean, we've had that smile. You know, you want to use your younger. You never really had abdominals. Yeah. Yeah. This must be loose home training from the lead towards Arnold. Oh, okay. Because I know we got into personal training for a while too. He was training a lot of celebrities. I think he was training Michael Jackson at one time. You're kidding me. Yeah. And I think I think he might have even had a good trailer full of weights. And he would drive to the client's house. And he was going to his trailer and he would train him there. Imagine that. Yeah. I think Louis had something to do with convincing Joe to lower the age to 40. So he would be allowed to enter. Which is fine. I mean, doesn't, I, I, I, just for it. I'm concerned. I don't give it down. Who enters. I feel like boy is the more of a champion in the lead. I feel like he's attacking. Yeah. Oh, Joe, we don't care. This is Joe leader, fine. Not staged at all. No. It's just, I'll be right now. We have to carry those rooms. Yeah. I don't even know. It's still here. Maybe it's not staged. Maybe it's not staged. We might mind at the time of the little training. I just see what you want. You find one, you know, my partner is going to work on my problem. I do. What's happening? Well, I came out. I don't know money. I was see only, I think, two or three hundred dollars for the guest pose in faith. I was so determined I think I'll home because I figured my only chance is to stay in California. So I slept on the beach for two weeks. Is that check, Norris? I don't mind it. Because you know food really has that. I called Joe, I begged Joe, it's a joke. Please, I want to go home. I'm looking at contract. I really want to stay here. I want to thank for the Mr. Lempie. I convinced him that I would not go to the lead body building. So for that time on, I started to do pose in the back of the beach in the main California. My home, like a dream coming true because I had to go home. I was not going to be a happy person. And Joe, I mean, saved my life. So what happened? Okay. All right, Joe, come on. So you see when I brought him here, I thought that that time he would be able to pull himself together. And I worked with him. I encouraged him and was preparing him to enter the Missile in Pilar. Believe that he would have wanted that time. Because you know, he was competing to these great champions. He would not have that heavy develop. His size, his muscularity, was awesome. And if he's trained a whole year, I was sure that he was going to win the Lempie and for a couple of years. There after. In back in the day, you just beg for a contract from Joe Gold and then you, Joe Weater and then you get to stay in the back of the town. If you're good, Lifetime. Yeah. I was a different person. I lied about my parents saying, I have perfect parents. I would have the kind of family like you would see on father-in-law's best. You're working right out of my house. The opposite. I carry or hurt Gild and Angle. Because he project all the feeling I made because he had other friend who policemen. They've read about this and my son at school, my son at doing this. He's getting it on the test. And then he would come on and see, look at my son this and this. What's the sad? I think the fact that he could not relate to me having a handicap, so instead he was then himself, probably hated himself. The fact that he had a perfect son that he did something wrong. So we had really no barn or connection. Well, you know the sad thing is when I was a champion of the one of our who loved me, he couldn't accept me losing. He only showed interest in the way that he made me, and he was trying to make me get an attention, but he couldn't see his son losing. He can't accept defeat. You know, we are many interested. I mean, it was like a lover, hey, relationship. Everything my father wanted to be a match in the be up, he said, if you had you here and you're going to be a great athlete, if you had you here and you'll be a popper to my chronic strength and that girl. So if you had her, I heard that initially, people I heard rumors that like his dad was really like his dad. So first of all, pumping iron, they made it look like his dad was his coach. And I had heard that he had all these resentments towards his dad and stuff for coaching him and all that. But then find out later, his dad really didn't coach him, right? Yeah. So like he said, his dad was always hard on him because he was deaf. Yeah. You know, he wanted like a perfect son and his son had a, you know, Lou had a handicap so then he was always hard on him. So Lou was always really skinny growing up. And then he got into bodybuilding, started lifting weights and he was a huge bodybuilding fan. Lou saw like the Mr. Olympia back in 1969 when it was in broke actually saw it in 1966 when it was in Brooklyn at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. So he saw like one of the first Mr. Olympias as a kid. Yeah. And then once he started training, he grew really quick and he was a big teenager, you know, six foot five. And then he won the Mr. America, IFBB, America and universe when he was only like 21 years old. Okay. And then he won the universe again in 22 and then he went to the Olympia against Arnold at like, you know, 22 years old. But Arnold more experienced and Arnold beat him. And then like when they made pumping iron. His dad acted as his coach and they thought that would be good for the movie. But he said in reality, his dad was never his coach. He was trained by himself, you know. Yeah. His dad wanted to be famous. You know, his dad wanted to like, to be in the movie. So his dad wanted to, that's why he kind of created this role for himself. Yeah. But Lou kind of resented that. And then this Lou said after he lost the Olympia to Arnold and serves new prey, his dad was like, call them a loser. You know, he just died. Yeah. He just wasn't supportive at all. And then he said, 26, Lou didn't even compete in bodybuilding. I mean, after Arnold retired, you would have thought Lou would have won in the Olympia against Franco. Right. And he goes to Toronto and he plays, he tries to play football for the Toronto Archimals. Man, he definitely would have beat Franco too because they wanted to, they liked tall guys, right? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, we've been definitely between him and Franco and Zayn. Let's hear what Arnold has to say here. Arnold's back. And then you, that you meant to win this contest. And that faith in yourself and that vision that you have, winning that we're going to carry out there. That is what would take you through the hours and hours of breaking out through the pounds and tons of lifting weights. But if you have to first get you act together and first have to set your mind, that means that you didn't have it. And also he's got those insightful, champion tips doesn't he? You got some career practice stuff here? He's really, he's really hard to adjust his, you know, especially his lower back. I sent him for some extra ease and they had a tough time getting the extra ease through him because he's so, There he feels like he's doing it. It's all muscle. Yeah. They figured out the factors that would take to actually somebody his size and it didn't work. They had to like triple it because somebody his size is usually fat. He's he's 300 and you know, 10 pounds of muscle. So yeah, it's definitely a challenge to work on. Just relax. Just relax. Let's run it forward a little bit more here. Just relax. More anxiety. But I mean, as I said earlier in the press conference, I haven't changed anything in the last 10 years. I've trained just as hard as I would have followed the end competing. So I didn't really have to do anything special to get in shape for this context. And one of the things that I feel very good about is after training some 34 years and doing a lot of things right. A lot of things wrong. I believe at 48 and I hope to prove that tomorrow that this is the best shape I've ever been in in my life. I hope you'll appreciate anything. I hope you'll appreciate it. I hope you'll appreciate it. I hope you'll appreciate it. I don't know, I've been around for about 45 years old to 125 pounds. Six feet tall. A Mr. America and Mr. World has came out of retirement to compete into Mars event. You kind of miss it when you're not there. You've never how he did, John. When you run that stage, I mean, it's just you. He was, I don't think he was in the top five. Okay. What's interesting, guys, they had a lot of old champions come for this first one. I think they looked at it as like a one time event. Maybe you know, they didn't know it's going to keep going. So they had like Lou, they had Robbie, they had Boyer, they had Chris Dickerson, Danny Padilla, Bill Grant, so a lot of old timers that used to compete in the Olympia, they were all coming back. So it was pretty exciting to see all these guys come back after 10 years. Yeah. Yeah, I agree, Lou had a lot of muscle, but you really didn't have great shape. No, I didn't. And I think with the girls and stuff, his waist got a little lighter, you know? Oh, okay. We very impressive, don't get me wrong. I'm going to take anything away from him, you know. Yeah, huge guy. For sure. What did we say? I think I saw something he had claimed he was like 305 pounds and 1% body fat or something like that for this show. It's not my long nose lines. I know from 92 to 93, I think 92 was his first year back at the Olympia. That was the Erdogan, the H1 in Helsinki, Finland. And I think he might have gotten a little nervous overguided a little bit. And then when he came back the next year he was like 30 pounds bigger. Yeah. He didn't make the same mistakes. The other thing that he had here, which was, I don't know, the camera will show it. He had calf implants, which looked really bad. Yeah. I never knew that. Did you fix that up? My calves? You know, they weren't really small. They were developed, but they're just a little high. Yeah. So he couldn't have been plants this year. Your kid and me, did he eventually get them taken out or what? Yeah, he did. Yeah. You'll see him if the camera comes back. All right. I'm going to look for a picture too. I have to bring this up. But what's amazing about Lou is, you know, I really think he's like a bodybuilder's bodybuilder. He, this guy loves bodybuilding. And despite all the success and all the money he made doing the Hulk and then any other TV shows you might have done or whatever, you know, I'm sure he made a lot of money doing the Hulk with the syndication and everything. Yeah. I really feel in his mind he always wanted to be Mr. Olympia. He probably always wonders, you know, what would have happened if I would have just kept competing in 1977 and I wouldn't have got that Hulk roll. What would I have won? Could I then Mr. Olympia, you know, three, four, five times, you know, in Frank Zane was winning it. Yeah, here's the Kevin. I can't blow that up any bigger, but yeah, there's no question there. That's, uh, that's suspicious. There's Lonnie T for used to run. Oh yeah, man. He's all over the place as abs are in. In my column, I predict Robby Robinson to win this show. But I'm starting to think, you know what, LT, you may, maybe it made a mistake or very big mistake. That's one huge monster there. And I think of Lou Ferigno as the Hulk on TV, this big green monster coming out of your screen and you're delivering room and now he's going to be coming out of the posing day right into my seat in the front row. I can't wait. Lonnie is like an ultimate fan of the sport, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Lonnie was great. It's like all from Rotterie. But it's not like you knew Robby was going in it. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. And we're living a lot of the past. It's really great to see all the fellows again and I'm anxious to see what they look like and what they have accomplished. Alright. Go ahead. We could avoid any. Alright. And the uncanny. First egg or something. Here. Lou Ferigno's here. Yes. Herbert Thompson. Here. Oh, my God. Here. Is that a Pavilion? Here. Anypidilla. Louie was right. Louie was his right-use, one human being to be for a contest. They don't even mention Robby. I know that we've done. You know that Robby's name was mentioned on that list. Right? Yeah. If he was the winner, they don't even mention, they don't even show where they call them. You know what I mean? It's just one of them. It's just one of them. Yeah. Oh, that's an anti-professional competition is joked on the afternoon before the night show finals. This round of judging establishes the place where we jump in. We're going to get three round points. 94. Yeah. Why? This was all part of the Mr. Olympian weekend in Atlanta, Georgia. 1994. Yeah. Okay. So this happened the same time as the normal Olympia. Yeah. I think they probably did it on Friday night, maybe. Did I? Oh, that'd be wild man. Each other, for example, doing quarter turn. There's building for the number of biceps doing side chest, doing all the mandatory poses. You want to look great. They're looking at the big arms. There's Danny Pagia. Whatever happened to Danny Pagia, he's still up and Rochester doing personal training. Is he really? Yeah. He did, he was like my favorite short guy. And I really like he'll look at his physique. incredible physique. There's Trysu Galato. Same thing. This whole scene they're trying to mimic again pumping iron the guys in the audience talking about it. The next three who have come from Oslo Norway to compete in this year's competition. Robbie believes he can beat Lou and Boyer for the overall title. Come on show the whole shot. Let's see him from the front. I don't care about this. I think they're going from the front. I know if you need to see him or Robbie next to each other. There's legs. We're still waiting to see him. He's got great arms. He's got good triceps and biceps. There we go. He looks good. thick is how you know in general. You're always trying to real fit every area. So another dive always. I've never reviewed one area. In my particular instances, I've always been standing or one that's, in other words, I've always tried to bring everything up. There have been satisfied with the way my arms look. My legs are back or anything. You just get to work. You just get to work. You just get to work. You know, magazines go. They did what they were Sean Ray and Boyer Co. And they'd have a guest time. They were do workouts. I've been years. But yeah. Yeah, that was in like the early 90s. I think that flex wheeler on. It had Kevin LeVroni, Lee Priest. I was going for a little view. Then I don't know how old he was then. But he was a great shape factor. I would say legs are the not here. You know, his legs looked pretty straight up and down. And I think that might just be. Okay. And it might be the element of age making that a little more pronounced, especially if his upper body is even bigger and rounder. Yeah. Yeah. His legs were always kind of narrow. But I saw him once when I was a kid. I saw him guess. He did a seminar at a gym and then he came out and he had a special light. And he came out and he posed in his posing trunks. Yeah. I couldn't believe how good his legs looked in person. Yeah. Just from the hardness and the separation he had huge calves. Like they didn't look the same as they did in the magazine, you know. Okay. Well, losing that beaten him on legs either. So there's that. Who's Tan looks a little weird to. It's hard to tell. But I see what you mean. Look like kind of weird on his face. Yeah. That's a good shot on him. Yeah. He's a good chick. You've got to be totally focused. You know, you can have all the goods. But if you don't have your mindset on and ready to do battle more or less, I guess everybody else, then you're pretty much defeated. Troy's who could. It looks like he is training. Yeah. He does. Yeah. He just psychologically you prepare your. More like a football player or a basketball player. The same goes to bodybuilding. If you could have the physique, but if you don't mentally have it to go up there and stand in the pre judging tense all the time where you get drained, I mean, just stand there flexed through a whole pre judging with last about two hours. You know, you're physically drained. So if you're not mentally prepared and physically prepared like in football, you can be the feed of the before you use step on stage. What I've seen today, you know, again, if it depends on the judging, I think they all have come in an incredible shape, a better than I've ever seen any of them. I think if you're judging on cemetery, I think lobby is the best part of cemetery goes. If you're looking at overall freaking size shape, just monster, then you've got to give it to a roof ringer. If you're going for a hardness with kind of condition of bodybuilders in, then you've got to give it a boy and then you can just put it around. So really all three of you could win the show. It just depends on what type of judging what type they're looking for today. I would like to see a shot of all three of you together. I think they're getting better at that. Did you notice, did you watch the live stream of the Olympia this past year? Yeah. Do you notice they did do more straight on shots? Like they kept the camera where we want to see it more, you know? Yeah. You guys haven't seen any problems, so it's not something that looks only involved with just myself. So it's not anything big. I didn't have any cramps, right? I mean, shape or it's not being the exact same on a long stage. Like, I mentioned earlier, once it's kind of like right about, it's going to do it to, you know, how to do it. You street go over here and you've got to look at the shows that here. It's a little weird. We've got to get to the whole show. We've got to climb the park on the two out. How do you sweat? What do you get to do? Well, it's our girls band streaking. Yeah. Yeah. I swear, look like you had dream fan on. Yeah, maybe good. You know, it's street, and when you turn around, you can see the blotch is running here. You see it's all blotch. You should be right down here. Okay. I'm going to look at my peer. Oh, you're doing good. Conditioners, you as well. Good. You need to have to have a red. Are you going to get pictures? No. I'll be back to the hotel. You're the show, aren't you? This is show. Yeah, maybe not. I'm looking at it. No, that's the 92, and I reminded you. No. You went back out. You know, when you got to start white dwarf, and you knew where to put on, and you came after the second. I thought you looked much, much better. And then the third half of the look, I thought, it was, but we, I got to the road. You're really, really, who's just with you, too? You're really wise. You're definitely a better person. Yeah, I'm going to shoulder your stupidity. The one thing I think that was always the same for me, seeing Lou, was that I know him so well, and I know the kind of tenacity that he has. He has, It's his wife, Carol. The quality that I admire so much in another person. They still together, that he is a champion. You know, he has a champion mentality. I am the opposite of him. I am a woman who started out very young, doing five million things, and I can do them all really well. But I've never focused on one thing, blocking out all the rest, and me becoming a true champion that can win, you know, all these great awards. I never did that. I do all the other things that make me happy. And then, he had one direction, and that's what I see in champions in all areas, is that quality. To blanket all out, do the one thing they love, and be the best in the world at it. The competition is in progress, and the judges have cut the field to five for the final post down. Here we go, John, you ready? I think Dickerson made a top club. Who's the other one? Like a Uber, no. Oh man, that denim sleeveless shirt with a collar. Guys, for beating, you know, from the first minute when you see them in state, to then have a gun to win, but they believe they're gun to win. They should have another contest. They have a loser's contest or something like that, but not with this competition. It's winning, it's speeding, it's destroying the other people. And that's it, you should be standing out there as the victim, top of the pedestal, get this gold medal around it, get this trophy, take $100,000, go home and say, I was the best, that's what it's all about. If you wanted to do something else, then you have to do something else. Run a gym, train people, or do something else, but don't go in the Olympia. My whole life of carriage is suitable, but they frequently encounter suitable, but because it was my protection. I come to the realization that people have loathed the meat, to who I am, not because of the 300 pound hole, or the 300 pound bodybuilder. To try to learn something answered to my happiness, that's what you're saying. You don't have to really have an opportunity for beyond state. So, I feel like champion to make this. A lot of people turn against Lou with the whole autograph thing. Yeah. Where he charged people, $10,000, to sign pictures. There are a lot of people had a bad taste left in their mouth, because of that. I heard that was his wife's influence. Oh, really? Yeah. Yeah. On the level of the whole guy is, who will he vanish from Russia? He used to be pretty good years ago, but he was a hard-seeker. Of course, you knew who he was. Yeah. He's not going to get you down. Just for the joy of competing. It is other nonsense. If anyone thinks that he can then win, or that he can really show his best, the idea of competing is always that you show the best that you can be. And that that can match up against anyone. And that you could beat anyone and you best stay. That's why do you go in the compete. The idea of competing is that you want to show the world that you number one. I'll take that award to the third place finisher. And I'm very close to contest. To boy or co. Good job, boy. Good job, boy. It's the power to win. Good job, boy. Good job, boy. Good job, boy. And that second place is winning the silver standout medal, being presented by Richard Pizarro and Winner Robbins arms. It's the second place. So the medal ain't given to you. Move for a moment. The first one. Let's go, Robbins. Yeah. Yeah. A couple of pulls once we're saying. First of all, I'd like to thank Joe Weader for inspired me. I love you. I love you. I love you. I love you. Yeah. Yeah. A couple of pulls once we're saying. First of all, I'd like to thank Joe Weader for inspired me. So, I'm going to honor everybody. Please serve me now. I want to thank all come out to thank Joe Weader for inspired me. Yeah. The Mama was getting really to talk to you. Just to take a look at your microphone. And and are coming together. So I really appreciate was doing this. He's wanted to slick. Yeah. At the club's club at least tonight as my first title online, you were one of our first name people who had his, and I went to the Youthz, and I was scared thing possibilities, through the compete and what effort it took. Louis gave it the best that he could give. And Robbie Robinson may have had an advantage in the competition because when you look at Robbie's career Robbie has not stopped, Robbie started at 18 years old, Robbie's 47, and Robbie Robinson has been competing over 30 years. And he's never out of condition, and he's never retired. So if anybody possibly had the edge because Boyer had retired and long time and made attempts to come back and his look terrific, probably that person would have had the biggest advantage to win if any of them, it would have been Robbie. And Robbie looked a little bit more separated possibly. Obviously, nobody in the world's as big as Louis. Robbie, and as far as I'm concerned with the whole, I think there's a genetic factor. When's the over 40, 10 times? It will never magnify his name as one of the true legends of the sport. I compare him to Bay, Ruth, and Lou Garic. I compare him to Johnny and I just I compare him to Jack, necklace, depending upon the sport that you're looking at. Louis is Louis. Mike Katz, you don't get happy. You say Louis, who? You said big Mike, most people think of me when it's Arnold. It's short-sneger, when it's big Louis, it's Lou for Rigno. He doesn't have to prove anything to anybody. Louis for Rigno is one of the most respected and loved body bovers, and one of the truly great body bovers of all time. Whether he was second, whether he was third, whether he won, whether he didn't. So my hats go off to him. He's one of the most loved and respected men that I've ever known. And he will always be a winner with me and with the rest of the world of classical. I feel that a little bit here. I have so much of my life. I have my family. My wife, Lou. My children. You're going to be hanging a queen's pretty safe still, and another TV show. It's just tied up. I'm not going to change my relationship with them. All right. And the most beautiful part. So they're trying to wrap this up and turn it into like things are, it's still a successful documentary. It's a vibe I'm getting here. I heard he was like super pissed when he got off stage. He shouldn't have filmed that part. I would have met for more. Yeah. All we saw was him right here. Let's see, right after it. Yeah. So he just, we just see him for a second. He walks away. And we don't hear from him again till he's back home. And now he's composed. Yeah. I was able to process it, right? Yeah. And then it looks like they're going to. Is this, is this at the show or this probably under guest program? It's been a mission because it's time for me to move on. Do a PNR to the local government. You hire me. He's still like the Arnold retirement speech at the microphone. Like they didn't want me to. Today. Yeah. I love to do it to you. But we are my fan. And my poem is I will continue body beautiful. That's my life. But thank you so much for having me here tonight. And it brings a little sadness to me. But goodbye. And thank you very much. Man. What do you think, John? How was this movie? It was okay. It was pretty good. It was a lot more fun watching it with you because you knew everybody. You tell me you're interested to extra details. If I was just sitting here in the audience, which is sitting here watching this on their own, they wouldn't know all that stuff. So you bring dimension. You make watching these things fun, man. Or more fun. Yeah. Yeah. It looks like they were just trying to copy off a pumping iron and this was going to be loose. Mr. Olympia, you know, this was going to be his. But unfortunately, he lost to Robbie. And the story, I hear, I think John Romano said this, Robbie was living in Norway at the time. You out of the country. And he wasn't competing. I'm going to, when the last time you competed before this. And they break, they reached out to him. Wayne DeVillier reached out to him. It's a, hey, we want to compete. So then they brought him over from Norway. And then he ruined the loose story. Man. Well, good, good show nonetheless. I'll tell you what, too, man. I wish that they had the master's Olympia at the actual Olympia. That would be cool. Dude, I'd come in a day early to see that, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was kind of cool in the beginning because they did have a lot of those old-time guys. And I think that's what they created it for. But then it just became any pro that was over 40. So then you have the names from the 70s and the 80s. So it kind of lost its original intention. I think like Boyer said in the movie, I think they just created that Joe Weeder created that just for Lou, because Joe Weeder love Lou for now. I didn't interview a Rick Wayne who was one of the best writers ever in bodybuilding. And he was around in the 60s and 70s and he wrote for Joe Weeder's magazine and I did a long interview with him and he told me that Joe had kind of a love hate relationship with Arnold. Arnold was his main marketing guy, but Arnold was so, you know, he's such a smart ass. You would, you know, he was just always so biting type of humor, you know, and Joe hated that. But he loved Lou for a note because Lou was a nice guy and he wanted Lou to be the guy to go all the way. But he never did, you know, I mean, he just never reached his potential as a youngster because he had that whole thing. And when he was competing against Arnold, it was like, I mean, if you saw pitches of him at 21, 22, he was amazing. He was a monster. He was a universe against Mike Katzen Ken Waller who are veterans, you know, and he's 21 years old. Yeah. So I mean, if you would have had the right coaching and if you would have went up the California and trained at golds and stuff, but he stayed in New York, and then when he was finally moving out the California, he was finally going to reach his potential in 77. And if you ever saw any pitches of him from 77 as he was leading into the contest, he was bigger and cut. I mean, he was really good. And he brought up a shape. He brought up his weak points, but then he got that whole thing right before. And the potential was never realized, you know, and I think that's why he wanted to come back in the 90s because he just, I think it was Antonio. He could have made millions of dollars. He could be the most famous guy in the world, but he's a bodybuilder. He's a bodybuilder, heart, and he wanted, I think it just bugs him that he never won Mr Olympia. You know, yeah, I know how he is. He's a bodybuilder, man. I know it's just no matter how much money he's got or how much fame he's got, it's still must nod him. And you know, like, what could have been? You know, when you have that thing, like what could have been? You know, they'd always bugs you, you know, because you can't go back in time. You can't do it all over. So you got accepted the way life was, you know. Yeah, that sums it up really well. I think with the master's thing too, bodybuilding has changed, you know? So the guys who, like, I couldn't imagine a lot of the guys who have competed and then retired continuing to push at the level they push to get to where they're at, I don't think they can hold that for 15 years in stay healthy, you know? Yeah, that's a good point too, Scott, because if you look at some of these guys in this movie, some of the guys from the 70s, like Robbie, Lou, um, Chris Dickerson, Boyer Co., like Boyer was competing and Chris Dickerson was competing and that early 60s. Yeah, well, there was last at 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s. I mean, who has that kind of longevity anymore? Where they can compete 30 years, you know? And it's a testament. I mean, obviously Boyer said that he was pushing things to come back, but I mean, it's a testament though, one of the things we talk about on the channel a lot is using the least amount you can to get the most progress you can, you know, using your training and your nutrition as the foundation. And I'll tell you what, if you were to use, you know, 70s level of gear, I mean, if you could achieve a physique that these guys had, it like 75, I think a lot of our listeners would take that, you know, and if you're in versus taking three times as much gear and maybe still only making the same amount of progress by the time they finish anyway. I agree with you. I think that's exactly why these guys can't go 30 years, you know, because stuff they're taking, they're careers so much shorter because they burn out much faster, where what were they even taking in the 70s? It had to be minimal amounts of, you know, I mean, Boyer started competing at 16, you know, I mean, so he had a long career. Yeah, that's hit 30 years, you know. We have a few people like that. Maybe I like I wonder, I'd be curious to know, like, what a ducks to Jackson use compared to some of the other guys. We know that he wasn't like a crazy intense trainer. He didn't push things like crazy in the gym. He had to eat a lot, right? But, and I mean, on that say, he didn't train hard, but I have a feeling he probably was able to coast along with the PEDs and not go quite as hard to keep up with like a really winkler, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Maybe just the genetics and whatever he used was enough to to get him there, you know? Yeah. You know what, two back then, I guess thinking a step further, a lot more, there weren't as many bodybuilders, right? There weren't as many good pros. And so to be it's they were pros because they had those genetics to begin with, where is now you can there's more of a choice. Like, well, I can push the gear really hard to be able to keep up with these guys for a period of time. But at the same time, too, I don't want to take away from the new guys because the level that they're taking there for Zix to today is so much further, you know? Yeah. Yeah. That's true. Anyway, this is cool. Hard to say. Well, it was really good as a teenager. I mean, I remember, you know, he was he was winning titles at like 17 years old. He was winning Mr. Texas. It's 17 years crazy. I believe it, man. I believe it. Well, this is cool, John. I appreciate you coming on and hanging out with us and sharing those little shows with you. Yeah, this is cool. It was like really, really nice to get your insights. And this is something I wanted to watch anyway. So getting to watch it with you is fun. Number one, and the number two, you just bring so much more to, you know, so much more color to it. All right. Thanks. I appreciate it. So people check out the Bodybuilding Legends podcast you're on YouTube. And of course, you're on audio podcast. And as we mentioned in the beginning, we've got your coaching. Where they go again for that? John, here's a fitness.com. All right. And then you can go to Bodybuilding Legends Show, which is our official website for the Bodybuilding Legends podcast. But like you said, you could see that on well, the Bodybuilding Legends podcast is on the audio. And then the YouTube channel is under my name, John Hanson. And I found my video there. Yeah. I'll be sure to take you in the description. So people can go straight up and see that. And like I said, send me a link to your, when you're a Boyer Co interview. So yeah. Add that to them there too. What do you have coming up? Now, I have a seminar coming up in Massachusetts, uh, swimming Massachusetts, which is Joe Jay Colors hometown. Yeah. Yeah. And we have a seminar coming up with, um, Lee Haney and Linda Murray and myself. And that'll be on March 9th. So, uh, yeah, check that out. If you guys are in the area, uh, it's guaranteed fitness.org is the website where you would go to to sign up. So if anybody's on East Coast, and they want to go to the summer. I mean, Lee Haney and Linda. I mean, just that alone with all that knowledge. So it's going to be a great seminar. It's going to be like a hands-on seminar where Linda's going to help with the posing and me and Lee are going to be doing stuff in the gym. So it's really going to be awesome. I'm looking forward to that. That's freaking cool. Lee Haney is still, he's just an awesome person, man. Yes. I follow him on his Facebook and I see him post it everything all the time. So he's, he's, he's still a guy who's passionate about the sport. Yeah. He's very passionate about making a difference in the future for the younger people. You know, he's really pushing the training knowledge. He has his own training certification. And he wants me to help him with the history of bodybuilding and that because he, he wants the young people coming up to know about the history of the sport. So he's, yeah, he's very, very involved with making a difference in the future of the sport and all the younger people coming up. Yeah. That's cool, man. I'm going to say I was just thinking about it. I've never met Lee Haney, but really, yeah, I never have. But he'd be one of the few people I feel like I'd be like a little star struck by to meet him. Yeah. They should have money show him. Sure. Come on. He's, he's all really open to that. You know. I'd freaking love to. I, I'll, I'll have to talk to you about talking to him and figuring something out then. Okay. All right, guys. Well, we appreciate you guys to do this for another reaction video here. Do his favor, comment. Let us know what else you want to see. And, you know, bring, bring John back on John, I've gotten so much feedback of people saying that they love the videos that we've done so far. That's another comment. That's awesome. Yeah. Let's keep doing it. All right, guys. We'll see you soon.

Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building. I'm Big Brown Part Loaf. Of course, we got Dusty Handsha and the producer Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes, and remember, I am mutant.com. Go to I am mutant.com. Get your hardcore ISO, get your MindFK, and everyone should get on the gear. Remember your code's Dusty and Big Ron save yourself money, get it delivered. Right to your house, super fast or delivery super fast. If you order it today, you might get it tomorrow. That's how fast it is. So it's your doorstep. And then what's the best part, Dusty, what's my favorite part? You don't have to see people. You don't have to talk to them. Nothing, didn't it? How's it going? How's your workuping, I saw it here. No. How much is left for help? Yeah, no loosing. Yeah. Yeah. What do you have to have? Any of those chitter chatters. Hey. Okay. You know, I have my that age now, Dusty. You know, I minimize the talking. Yeah. Okay. I love it. Very happy. I just love how stuff so easily deliverable. I have to make one admission before we get going on the show. I have, I like to pride myself on being someone who doesn't waste money. Right? Like I buy what I want, but I don't waste money. Sure. I kind of had an incident the other day I was very stubborn about my groceries. And I like to get my groceries. I'm not getting my groceries delivered like those lazy people. I'm getting my groceries. Right? I take pride in my supermarket walk. I got three aisles. I'm a machine, systemized. I'm on it. I like to clear my supermarkets. A nice place for me. It's a positive place. There's a lot of, you know, they got to calming elevator, cover tunes going where it's the song you kind of know, but it's not. And you know, you see a lot of, it's how I stay in touch with the regular person dusty. I go amongst them. Right? At the supermarket, you're amongst the normies. You're seeing what's going on in the real world. Well, I was out of some stuff the other day and I didn't feel like we were in the house. I was like a 830 and I just realized I'm out of peanut butter and coffee. And I need both of those things in exactly 12 hours. Badly. So I got to do a dash. Got on the door dash, dusty. I don't get out. I just disappointed. I got on the, are you disappointed? I thought you might embrace me for this. I got on the door dash. And I didn't just get the peanut butter and coffee. I thought, well, I'm doing this now. Get another bag of rice. Let's get some more bread. Let's get, I need some, you need some yams. Emily needs some vegetables. Let's get a little bag of those smart sweets that she likes. So I get some extra points when she gets home. She'll sugar free candies. I'll pay back. And I just wound up next thing you know 200 bucks for the groceries in Door Dash. And wow. A big bag, two big bags delivered to my door. And I think that it's like, he was with Steve. Yeah, there's too much dopamine from not having to shop. I think I might have got hooked. The first taste should be, I think they usually give you this count for the first taste. First taste. First taste is free just like the other things. Oh no, this one's on the house, but I'll see you tomorrow. Yeah, I know. And now what I really fear is that Emily sensed my weakness. And now she's like, I could stop on the way home and get egg whites. This pretend I forgot and Ron will door-dash them. So I'm worried that I may have created a monster. I had to get a good system because if I was Emily, I would like come home. I would be like, oh, get none. You had a pause first though. Like she's like, take your shirt off. She's getting my feet are so sore. I'm so glad I'm home. What a long day. Yeah, preamble. Yeah, hmm. Hit you with those things. She's also not wearing a shirt now. And she's on the couch. Comfortable? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Just dinner ball. Yep, yeah. And then she hits you with, uh, yeah. You don't we need egg whites. I forgot to get egg whites. Yeah. And you know what that also means. It means two things. Either Ron can be a good guy and go get them. Or. Right. Now you're done. You're now you're forgetting that by that point in time. I'm already in a tank top. Yeah. And I got to go socks on. So there's no, I'm not leaving the house by 9pm. That's down the elevator to the car. And it's a whole lot. It's in the runs of parking lot. Yeah. No. And because now it's so close that now I have to have that do I drive or walk to bait with myself. And that's another five minutes. I'm not having this. Hey, just the heads up guys. It looks like comments are not coming through for us. But we are getting comments rolling in. I'm seeing them because I went over on my other computer. And, you know, just a thing. So just the heads up. We got people we got people watching hang in with us. Oh, and we did have a thing. And you guys, are we all checked for the Olympia? Are you guys, do you guys have your suitcases? You got your clothes laid out? Like how's that going? It's going great. I have to pack a little extra because I'm getting married on Thursday. Oh. Yeah. Yeah. Getting married on Thursday, boys. Little heat, open, no one's invited. Perfect scenario. It is the, it's a, I know it is. I've done it. Yeah. Yeah. It's a great situation. We're amped up. We're going to day early. We're going to day early on. There's day just a two of us. Nice. And then it's Olympia time. So what do you think for this weekend, boys? That is going to happen. Is it bad that I already know what's going to happen? What's going to happen, Dusty? I want to, I want to speak in that way when I'm wrong. Everyone can come up. No, commitment. People respect commitment. I've got to go in here. And then they'll attack you and flame you for the night. Yeah, of course. Yeah. But what's that? What's he's, what do you commit in two Dusty? All right, here's my commitment. This isn't really a hard commitment, but I'm going to put him in order. All right. I have Nick winning the Olympia in Samson getting second. Boow. Boow. Whoa. Whoa. That's my call. That's my call. And I desire this greatly because the most important thing to me is to be Nick's mom's favorite podcast guy. Because after listening to Nick on our show, I'm slightly afraid of her and I'm hurt for it. Yeah. But no, I actually have a, I don't know, I got to feel. He just every time he posts a picture and we've all known Nick for longer than everyone else in the Nick. And every time he posts a picture, I have to stop and look at it. And I'm just like, what is happening here? Yeah. And then I went back and looked because people were putting them up. The New York Pro. And I looked at Nick and I was like, I still have him winning. And he's better now. Yeah. That's my take now. Obviously the, the part that could take me down is if Samson is peeled and remains full, then then I feel sorry for everyone else battling for second. Yeah. That can be a big problem. A big problem. A big problem. Sliced and holds fullness. Okay. That's a good prediction. So you got Nick first. Samson second. Yes. Who do you got? Let's, do you want to go three, four, five or just three or just four? What are you going to commit to, Dusty? Let's just go all in. Let's just go as big as we can. Let's go all in your picks. All right. I'm going, I'm going hot in third. Okay. Faith. I'm going reasonable. I'm going Derek and fourth. Okay. Four. Fourth. Current Mr. Olympia goes to fourth. No. No. No. Yes. Four more. Going to fourth. I'm just thinking he beat Nick, but Nick's. Yeah. So yeah. Okay. And fifth. I'm going bold here. This is, I'm taking my shot. I'm Jordan Hutchinson. Whoa. All right. I hear that. Look in freaking nutty right now. Yes. And I know that's a bold and part of it's just that I want to see that. But I, I don't know. I haven't seen him next to those guys, but I just, I think he's going to stack up well. And if I'm wrong and he does terribly and gets seventh, I'll be okay with it. Okay. Okay. Well, what about you Scott, do you want to go next? Well, I'll tell you what. I'm going to pull up. I took a poll this morning. We have, uh, I jeter. He's older. He's older. He's older. I want your answers. Okay. I'll give you my answers for this. I'll just get back to my answers too. I respect the question. I don't want to get the audience involved. You know, this is about them after all right. Right. So over at the YouTube page, I put up a poll this morning. I even got pictures out. And it only allowed me to pick four guys, right, to, or make four selections for this poll. So I added Samson, hotty, Derek, and Nick. And I said, who do you guys think is going to win? And then I also encourage everybody to comment with their top five. So here's what we've gotten so far. It's only been out for a few hours. 494 votes so far. We've got Samson at 45% Nick at 44%. Hotty is 6% and Derek at 5% people think that Derek is going to be out of, at least this grouping, the bottom of the pack. So I think they're right with you, Dusty. Man, that, you know, I've just heard, you know, so many things about what Samson's doing. I don't think that he's going to show up. He knows that he knows that he could lose this. He knows that he can't beat anything. I don't know what he's going. Yeah. He has to be his absolute best. Samson has some of the most incredible shape out of anybody in this lineup. Yeah. I think that, you know, I love Nick. I'm the biggest Nick Walker fan. In fact, the three of us had been Nick Walker fans since before it was cool. Back in the, back in January. Right now, in the whole world, Nick is the freak of freaks. Oh, he really is. Yeah. Oh, he really is. I think so many times that the freak of freaks doesn't get it to the pretty guy at the Olympia. I've seen that with guys like Branch Warren, for instance, like he's come in absolutely light, freaking out. Oh, no. I don't know. Classic any day of the week, you know, but you come to the Olympia and the way. Yeah. They, they end up going with the guy that looks like Samson. So I mean, God, I don't know. But if if Samson comes in, absolutely peeled with that conditioning and he has that fullness, it could be him all day long. That said, I think that Nick is going to show us his absolute best. Nick's not going to drop the ball on this. And no matter what happens, Nick Walker is going to have a freaking awesome presentation. Like this, this is going to be, like, I think that there is going to be more excitement in the audience when Nick comes out to pose than anybody else in this lineup. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. I think a lot of people forget one thing that like, you know, when you think a psychology, right? You think the psychology of the athlete, I think this is very, very interesting because Samson has this Samson psychology. I mean, I don't know, Samson really well as a guy. But he's dealing with all the criticism that he wasn't, you know, perfect, Mr. Olympia. Like you could have been very conditioning. You mean what I mean? Yep. You know, the old last year, but everyone's like, wow, it's conditioning. It could be better and he could be better and it back could be better. So he was also a lost yard old. And then he lost yard. There's that. Yeah. So he's dealing with all that. But I know that Samson has great people on his team. Yeah. That drive him to be his very best. I know that he's a smart guy who's fully aware of all of that. And I think he's going to be his very, very, very best. I think Samson's psychology is going to drive him to get better and be his very best. That's just what I think is going to happen. Nick, the interesting with Nick is people might not be thinking he has missed two Olympias in a row. Right? How aggressive must he feel to get on stage? He must be chomping at the bit. Oh, yeah. Like, like, race horse just can't wait to get up there. I can't imagine how he feels after missing two Olympias. Those two things to me, that's like the perfect NFL game. You know what I mean? Like, like the hungry as fuck frustrated as, you know, just cannot wait to get up there guy versus like the champ that knows what he's got to do. I just love that battle. And I think Nick is going to be, I said he's a freak of freaks. I think he's going to be freaky enough to be top two. Yeah, that's a, yeah. At the end of the day, Samson has the best structure of all those guys. He's got the best frame. He's six feet tall. 20 for in charms, 20 for in charms. Well, not like he doesn't have big arms, but Samson's front relaxed. Some of Samson's poses the shape of his physique. The way he looks in some of his poses. It's hard to beat that man when you're that guy. You know, like when you just said about the branch versus J, yeah. Yeah, I got one more hot take. Hold on a second. I got one more thing on the head in. Check this out. I don't think, and this guy, correct me if I'm wrong down the road, guys. I don't think that hotty or Derek will ever reclaim the Olympia. I'm going to say that right now. I'm going to say that right now. I'm going to say that right now. I'm going to tell you how to call in the future. I just don't think it's going to happen. I'm going to buy statistics. So yeah, the difficulty of winning, then losing, then winning it back. I just statistically, there's a lot of things stacked against them. I'll leave it in that. So here's my take. Hotty is always absolutely incredible. And he's not winning. Right. Yeah, it's not like he missed a little bit. Yeah. He's not showing up. Always glutes aren't quite in. It's never. It is always like, oh my god, hotty is perfect. Third. Right. Yeah. Because of that, I don't think he's going to win again. Everyone else would have to be off. Right. And then Derek, if he shows up looking like the Arnold, whoo. Now we're seeing this. Yeah, insane. Now we all look stupid. We need everyone to be 95% and him to be 102%. I think, where you're sitting with him to reclaim. With Nick and Samson, I don't quite see as like difficult of odds. Do you know what I mean? That's what I'm saying too. That's where I see it. I agree. 100% need to keep going. Look, I gave five. Oh, I need five. So I'm looking at the list here. And I'm looking at the list, by the way. I left Andrew off. So what's that, tell you? Yeah. So when I look at the list and you're talking about fifth, I'm looking at these names. And I'm thinking, you know, the only guys I can really think are going to pull a fifth here. If I'm being really honest with myself is Andrew Jack could pull a fifth. Martin could pull a fifth. I don't know. Like, I mean, you got Bretton there. We haven't seen him all year. Obviously, like, somebody's got Jordan Hutchinson. Like, Dusty said could be the Dark Horse. Bearer's to Bonnie. Yeah. Yeah. They, they lose unbelievable. I mean, Regans in the show who can be 12th and be the prettiest guy in the whole show. Or he's still the physique I would want. Yeah, still the guy would want. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I can't get guys like that. But when I'm thinking alike, who's going to come in and be in that top group? It's, I still can't get away from there's Bonak, Martin, and Jack. I just think technically statistically those are the, that's your top five and there's one of those guys. And it's hard to get around it. But I would like to see some new guard. You know, new guard's great. Yeah. So what about you Scott? I need your, your, oh, God. Fifth. I mean, I guess I know you're, would give, give us the third fourth and fifth since you didn't say that last. I feel like it's a toss up between Howdy and Derek if I were to go with, I mean, God, I told you guys before that that, Derek that we saw at the Arnold Classic was potentially the, if not the one of the best body builders I have seen in person in my entire life. You know, ever, like we are great. See, it's right in front of him. Those side leg shots were ridiculous, right? Like, if we were double, top of that, we're double. We're double in saying, you know, when I see him standing in like a front relaxed, I'm kind of like, I don't know. So the shots I don't like the way he holds them, but whatever. Yeah. I don't, you know, if man, we've seen him, he slipped, I think last year, and I'm just going back visually in my memory banks of seeing him on stage. We were disappointed. He lost that fullness in his legs. And then we saw him reclaim it, right? Three months, whatever, five months later at the Arnold is not like he lost size. He just didn't have that fullness. I don't think he's going to make that mistake again. I'm picturing all these guys in absolutely peeled condition. I still see how to over him. Okay. Yeah, I still see how to over him. And then fifth man, oh God, that's just an absolute freaking dog fight for fifth through eight. You know what I'm saying? Like, all of those places are great throw out some guys to me that I'm not thinking of, we've got Martin, we've got Brett, we've got Jordan is definitely like Jordan. I hear his looking absolutely insane. I don't think we're going to see Andrew Jack be able to, the Van Gogh Jack holds on to a fifth place. It's going to be because of his shape. I predict he's not going to be in good condition. It's going to be because he's a pretty physique. I predict that he is not going to be in the shape that we want to see him in. In fact, I'm a big Andrew Jack fan. I want to see him pick it up and actually win in Olympia. But I feel like just from what I've seen of him, what we've seen of him. I think that he's disappointing people and it's not going to be too long from now before people stop rooting for him. Flat out. That would be good for him. They stopped rooting for Nick. What happened? Yeah, there's that. Andrew's that. I'd like to see one of the nicest people I've ever met pissed off. I think that would be a scary thing. Andrew's like, like, when you see him, he's just dominating person to stand next to. He, yeah. And then he's like the nicest guy. So I always think that that's the guy that like pissed off would be pretty scary. So he is an incredible physique. I really think that he could win in Olympia. Oh, I really think he could. You know, those things, we all said kind of that everybody said the same thing about Sean Rodent earlier on too. Remember them calling him E.O. or saying that he was like, lax a day's a call, smoke too much pot and all that. Look what he did, you know. It's very exciting to be a top five though, did I? No, you have me sort of beat. I'm glad that I didn't have to say it. I'm like, you still haven't said a name. I'm gonna need a name. All right. I want to see Jordan jump up. It would be a lot of fun. I'm glad that I didn't have to say it. I'm like, you still haven't said a name. I'm gonna need a name. All right. I want to see Jordan jump up and fifth. You and me locked in with the fifth. All right. You know why I said him though. And it's not like first off. I haven't seen Martin in a year. Yeah. Yeah. So, so it would not hurt my feelings if he dusted his way into the top three. Yeah. So keep that in mind, everyone, as you're seeing these, you can't help but lean toward the guys you just saw. Yeah. We're at it's gonna be crazy. Martin's gonna be crazy. These things could all be off. But the reason that I get excited about Jordan is they, him and Chris don't miss and he gets better every single show. Chris has a formula, a title that is with all of his guys, but definitely with Jordan. I was just at the North Americans and I can tell you that there is not a coach that is more in for his athletes in the world. I mean, he was pacing at the show. He's coming back after the class, talking to us and I told him it was funny but his guy, I was like, I think they're giving it to the other guy. I was like, I don't agree with it. But I think they are. They just got into winning the overall. But he was just, he's just so in man. It's hard to imagine they'll do anything but skyrocket. So that's why I kind of see that going down. But we'll see if Martin's year away from me seeing him makes me apologize. Like I've had to do so many times in my career. My career of being horrendous with my picks. But, you know, saying all of that, like, and I didn't even put, I guess, Martin in up in that top five that I mean, God, he was over the last year. Yeah, he was. So he's better. You know, he's better. It's like, it really is like, you're setting yourself up to fail by giving these predictions because there's too many good guys. And we're imagining them all in the best shape, the shape we want to see them in. And the reality is going to be that some of them aren't going to hit. You know what I mean? And it's going to become very obvious once they get on stage. And it has nothing to do with, like, how great of a bodybuilder they are. It just happens to do with that one hour of that one day. You know, it's a, I think that's one thing that, that I can't understand because I've never been anywhere near that level is it's very impressive to me that guys who are that good that just stay totally relaxed. I mean, it's all on the line. And we're not talking about, I mean, we're talking about 600 K and an Olympia title. And just being like, I'll be fine. I mean, that's the attitude you have to have for your body to cooperate. And it just seems next to impossible. You know, and then you have cases like you said earlier, Scott, like Branch Warren comes in literally perfect. Just happened to bump into Jay Cutler at the second best look of his entire career. Are you right? Right. The best look. I agree about the mentality. I remember when I was doing the 99 Alberta's, I had to really focus on like winning the title and not just the color TV that they were given away. Okay, couldn't just same. Same thing. I had to just focus on the 20 inch TV. Oh, they give away a TV for real. 20, 20 inch. 20 inch. State of the art. New feet. Yeah. I got a 20 inch TV when I went to Alberta's and my buddy Bill carried it to my car for me. But I had to picture that like I could focus. I couldn't just think about that. That's he'd be that. And he would be lost to make me great. You know, you can't be motivated by by things and financial. You know, those kids watching this with 20 inch TVs in the screen of their car and their phone. Watching the 20 inch TV. Yeah. So you know, you have to really have passion. You have to really, it has to be for the title. You know, you have to think of money. Right. You just like drew my agents so strong there because I just realized that my daughters have 65 inch TVs in their room. It's a room. We have a 60 inch TV in our bedroom because it's the TV that isn't as good as the 55 in the living room. Like the brand new 55s in the living room and one of the bedrooms actually a little bigger, but it's not as good. You know, the walls to have them back then too, but they were those big projection. You remember, you're living room. Yeah. You can hide behind them. Two people, three people to carry it in. You got it. You do have to watch looking for the rewards. So my first overall, they always gave way of sword. Like a full size sword. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I had this whole plan after the show. I was going to win the sword. I was going to cut my carrot cake with the sword. Right. Yeah. Yeah. And this is before Instagram. So it does. And this was just for me. Yeah. And then they just brought me this giant like three foot tall trophy. I was like, we're going to cut that. Yeah. I can't cut a carrot cake with this. The video is a whole show was a waste. No, so that was. I was like, huh. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Lay goes. Lay exactly. So I wanted to bring something up before we rotate off. Shonkharita switches full coaching. Yep. Wow. Like weeks out from, and I don't know when this actually took place compared to when they announced it. Good point. We're going to go short time ago. But I mean, looking at that, you know, what do you guys think? I mean, obviously they got great reasoning. Obviously, drew it's phenomenal. But what do you guys think? So Luke was at the Canada. And he was at the nationals in Toronto this year. Luke from the John Jewett podcast. Yeah. Okay. So I like walking to Luke. He's like, hey, where's our chatting? And he goes, hey, I'll show you something. And he pulls out a photo of Clarita. And it's right when John got him. And then like four weeks later. And I was just like, oh, we crap. What happened? And he's like, oh, he was just really depleted. And super flat. And John took over. And now this is what he looks like. And the two pictures were like, what am I looking at? Like, I don't understand how Sean looked like the first picture. I don't know what. Maybe there's just going hard on the diet or something. I'm not going to second guess or I'm not sure. It's anything. Yeah. But the way he looked in the second picture. And John's head was kind of behind him like this. And the second picture kind of like I'm here now. You know. Yeah. And I was like, oh, okay. There it's their Sean. And that's what we're looking at. You know what I mean? So it was crazy. I don't know. Like, you know, obviously diets go through phases. You write down it stuff. I'm not trying to say that. But I'm just saying that. He looks good now. That's for sure. Yeah. That was my first thought. Because I know that Stefan, I mean, he even said like on the show, he was like, I'm always a fan of getting people peeled. And we've seen that. We saw like the most peeled. I'd say the best Sean we've ever seen for sure last year. My guess is that if I were to try to side with Stefan, I would say that he was probably trained to just pull him down hard. And they hadn't got to the fill-up process yet. Yeah. There is. There is something to be said about your coach looking at you in person. I obviously we all do it online. I won my pro-card over text messages. Best look I'd ever had. I think depending on the person also is how you pick your coach. It's not necessarily who's just better, but just who's better for you. You know, I'm sure. And I feel like for Sean maybe having him here, he's already taken care of the training. Why not just give it all to him? Which, I'm really particular with that too. There's only a couple coaches that I will write training for their athletes since because I know how they feed so I can do my job. You know, like I've helped a couple of Chris's clients with their training because I know what Chris does, so I'm not worried. But if you're a coach and I don't, if I don't agree with how your coach does your food, I can't do your training because it'll be wrong. Yeah. Yeah. There is this. So I did realize there'd be a great thing. Yeah, yeah, he's there. So he's seeing him. He's right down the road. So I don't, I mean, I think it's very regularly that they're seeing each other. Because he's in San Antonio and Dallas. I don't know how far that is. But I see John and Sean's gym a lot. What ever that distance is, they're closing it. So let me ask you guys this. I think as from a coaching perspective, you have a literal top Olympian, Mr. you have an a literal Olympia winner come to you at like a month out from the Olympia. And they say, hey, you want to take the reins from here? Would you do it? He don't. I mean, like it's not the ball right. It would have to be the right spot. Yeah. And I would say 90 about Olympia guy. I mean, yeah, I just took an athlete to be the last weekend that eight weeks out. And I told him, I can't have you all the way ready. I can have you the best you can be in eight weeks. But I didn't have you ready. If you're okay with that, I'll take it. But I'm not going to speed this process up and have you lose size because you can to me too close to the show too fat. Yeah. Yeah. Don't typically don't like to take people close to a show. But I just took a natural guy who's four weeks away from natural nationals. He just did our show last weekend. And he looked good, but he just need to be harder. But everything's in the right place. And then he asked me to help him and I looked at his diet. And I was like, oh, you're just your calories are still way too high. Like you just need to diet harder. And you would be. So the physique was there. It wasn't like a giant overhaul. It was just you got to drop like eight pounds in four weeks. Who's got to eat less? Yeah. You just not eating little enough. Yeah. I'm going to have you eat less food and charge for it. Here we go. You know, what do I change? I was like change and I think you're diet. Here's your diet. Yeah. My point is is like it seems cool. I think to be like, oh, yeah, I want to get to coach in Olympian. But like get that throwing in your lap in the last month. Like that's a pressure on John. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. He knows. I'm excited to see. And I think that that's a, you know, I think the part that's impressive to me, which I think most people would think is a funny way to say it is to come off your best look ever and hand the rings as someone else takes balls. Yeah. There's that. Like I actually look at it in reverse. I'm like, you're very confident in this because your Olympia last year is without question the best you've ever looked and you're switching it up, which means you're very confident in this decision. Could that be a hard choice to make? Yeah. It means you, your extremely committed to, it means you're extremely committed to getting better and you don't think you're getting better. Right. Like we're like we're not on track to be better. I need to be better. Right. And that's sometimes when people make big decisions too, you know. I can't see the questions God, it affects my life. Do we have any? I'm waiting for the people to leave questions for us. Dusty. They didn't leave us any questions. So there's that. I just along for the ride. That's fine. I just wanted to make sure we weren't in the end. Very important. Very important. We did have somebody say Ronnie did say back to the Olympia stuff. He did say that he'd never do multiple contests again after almost losing. He said, but hey, technology is advanced a lot and Derek, technology is great. There he is. That technology. Me, I had a little. I had a little technology behind me. Yep. I like that. What about there was another topic, Olympia related, with some of them. There is the whole thing of, did you guys catch has been a lot of talk? I don't know where it's come from, but maybe I don't know where the truth of this is, but a lot of people are like, man, he's not going to be able to make wait. That had been the ongoing conversation. And now there was the announcement that they're going to remasher everybody. And he may not be as tall as he was last year with a different haircut. And that if he were shorter, he wouldn't be able to once again make wait. What do you guys make of this whole conversation around making wait or not making wait? Well, I have personally known many classic guys, not just classic guys, but all the height classes. I have seen a lot of and heard a lot of stories of people kind of sneaking in. Like, maybe the person hiding the man's like, well, another, okay. Yeah, close to no, I mean, seven eighth off. You're like an eighth of an inch off, but it's good. You just, you would stand around all day. You'd be the taller in the morning. I've seen and heard of a lot of that at the amateur level. And I don't, I can't say that that doesn't ever happen at the pro level. I have to assume kind of smiling. Because I remember what Eduardo went through to make 202 one year. Oh, yeah, stripping down naked and wiping the sweat off his body. That was after he, that was after like doing cardio outside. Like he had, like, I think they gave him like 40 minutes to make wait. Yeah. And he came all the way down to like stripping completely naked, drying off. I mean, I think he was ready to shave his head. I think I think wait though. I think wait is a little bit more cut and dry for everyone. We have high, well, if high, big, something, and that makes wait feasible, then that's a different thing. And I remember apparently Steve was standing right by the scale that year. Okay. The acidos said Steve was right by the scale. And he was like, he's not, he's not yet. Yeah. And he like ran another lap and he's like, he's still not in. And he went to wipe the sweat off his body and then he stood naked with the towel around it. Yeah. Guys were holding towel so he wasn't touching him. Man, he was posing trunks got him in. Like he took those off and he was in. Geez. I remember, I don't, I don't think doing that with height. Rough and rough and it was, uh, telling me a few years ago. And it was when it was at Planet Hollywood. And they had to go upstairs to weigh in. And he was on the escalator. He like had a sweat suit on. And he went to the escalator to walk on it the opposite way. And he had to do that for a good chunk of time in order to be able to make wait because he didn't make it the first try. Yeah. Yeah. I wouldn't be surprised if there's a couple guys with, you know, have a lot of hair on their head. Or, um, I mean, I've heard stories of people putting in souls in their socks. So they're, you know, a little bit, oh yeah. Or putting on four pairs of socks. Like I've heard all this stuff. And some of these guys are getting heighted in. They got socks on. I mean, I know they got four pairs of socks on or if we're going to do it. If we're going to do this, if we're going to have this big thing right now, this conversation about Mike Summerfield, everything. Yeah. And let's do it. Barefoot. Everybody smashed the thing down on their head. The absolutely ruthless with their height. Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope. Who cares if there's 10 guys on stage teach everyone that we're not fucking around. Right. Yeah. Well, if they want to do it, do it. Right. Yeah. I think the only thing that I, that, that I can do to help is I immediately sending Mike in a version table. Yeah. And wait for his neck. So we should be fine. Yeah. So I know a bunch of guys that are doing, they're, we got these things around. They're strapping these things and doing the stretch thing and hanging up. Side down. And I know guys that are saying that they're getting into their class doing it because they're trying to, they're running from their room to the height. And you know, and hey, good on him like, use your technology as Ronnie would say. But you got to make hype. Yeah. I think he kind of dropped a hammer. I thought that he had room for sure. I thought when we had him here said he had plenty of room. And then who knows, he might, I don't know. Has he even said anything about this? Maybe he's a kind of like, yeah. I imagine it. Yeah. There's a, I was funny when you said he was talking about him. Right. My, my knee jerk was that that podcast and stuff and needed something to talk about and someone just made this up. It feels manufactured. You know, I guess when we, when we had him on, I, I could have swore he said he had room. Yeah. To put on side because I was talking trash. I'm like, what are your bones like bird bones? I can have you because he looks like he weighs 250. I am. I also have never, I've never watched a Olympia hide in. I'm not sure how strict they're being and I don't recall seeing footage from one either. So I don't know if they're barefoot or what's going on. I'm just talking about, you know, the shows I see, right? Mm-hmm. So yeah. Yeah. I haven't had anybody not make it. Have you guys ever had somebody not make it and have to go back and, you know, whatever, hang out for, you know, start themselves for another two hours. Whatever. I haven't had any problems with height classes on that day because we, you know, I get that right, you know, but, you know, I've had people that were super close and wait and they had to run some stairs or, you know, taking animal or do something. So I've had all that before with like normal weight classes, you know, but I've never had anybody with height. I was trying to say like, make sure you know how tall you are and it's not my problem. Like, like, you need to know how tall you are. Like, I'm not owning this. If you go to height and they tell you your five seven and your way over, you cannot, you got to know your freaking height. Yeah. So Dan says they weren't strict last year and he also asked he says, Mike, always were socks. They're saying that you have to weigh in barefoot. Absolutely. But he also adds all be surprised if he does make weight. Maybe Dan knows something. We don't know. Yeah. Well, I don't know anything. Yeah, they're definitely the whole world is going to turn upside down. I mean, I feel like it makes sense to like, let's stir up some controversy and drama. Mike was kind of like the air apparent right from last year. And so everybody's expecting him to do big things. It does create quite a storyline of like, well, what if the guy that we expected to do really well doesn't even show up, you know, what if he can't compete? Yeah, that would be wild. I would hate that because my wife would be very disappointed because she loves him. So I need him to make weight and win right, right, make weight and win. That'd be cool. I'd love to see that. Like a big great champ. This is this is important. You know, when your wife wants something that's completely out of control, you just need the universe to make it happen. She doesn't have a lot of care about bodybuilding. And when she was like on his band right, I was like, ah, crap. He's got a win from now on. So I wasn't I, okay. So I had heard something about or is not going or something like that. But it was like second year. Second hand from somebody else. He is going to be there. Okay. And Dane does have a question for us. He says, who's going to make a bigger splash at the Olympia for their debut. Sassan Brett Ors Rubie L. Who's Chen? Is he the guy from China? Chen? Dude, you're talking to somebody who's so out of the loop. Or Jordan or Jordan? Apparently we won't vote it for Jordan. I vote Jordan. But I also when I've commented on him, the immediate reaction from the fans is that would you say Bellarouze? Yeah. Apparently he's bananas bananas. I haven't seen enough of him to know. So that those two would be my guess. Sassan's amazing close friend. I just don't think he's like he had to really fight to get the qualification. And these are guys that are winning each show they do. Yeah. You know what I mean? And he's a phenom. I just don't think people realize the jump. It's I explained it's to clients. Like the jump between the local level and the national level is enormous. The jump between the national level and the pro level is bigger than that. And then the jump from winning a pro show to being a top 10 of the Olympian is even bigger than that. Like yeah. I just don't know that people really can quantify because when you see everyone in the gym or in pictures, once you're a pro and you're, you know, 250 plus pounds, they all look nuts and tell their next to each other. And then the gap is enormous. You know, I mean, there's not a lot of people that are probably watching by them. But seeing Kai Green do like a regular show. He looked like a guest pose or against pros. Yeah. It was, you know, frightening. So I just don't think that everyone understands what that jump is. And to be in the top 10 of the Olympia, like when I, I said, I, I'd love to see Jordan and fifth. I'm not saying it's not possible. It definitely is. But if you make the top 10 of the Olympia in your first crack, you are a phenom. And you are going somewhere, especially this Olympia. I mean, it's been a long time since I felt like that making the top 10 is like winning. Like if you're on the top three, then four to seven, I mean, four to ten is holy shit. Yeah, just making that, you know, they, yeah, it's incredible. I think of the list of guys that you just, I mean, you know, you're looking at Brett and these guys that we haven't seen on, you know, next to people in a while, it's like, I have no idea what's going to happen when they end up next to each other. So it's definitely going to be exciting. My hope is that everyone is on and that the judges have a hell of a time figuring out. Because there are spots guys that realize like that they're split in hairs for six to fifth. Yeah, you know, it's wild. Yeah, and it really does come down to a lot of times like the conditioning on that day. Little, the little small details that we tell you guys like, oh, it doesn't matter. Those that like do tattoos matter. Like if you have tattoos on stages, like at the state level, no, it's not a matter. But like when you get that far up, little, shallow level matters, pro level for good about it. Yeah, like it's, it's a problem if you're covered in tattoos at the top. Yeah, yeah. Hey, I got a question here. I thought this was something that would be interesting to turn to you, dust. Because I think you knew where I was coming from with this. He said, Scott, I've heard you say that your definition of failure isn't the same as it was years ago. I'm not sure I understand what you're saying. The muscular failure is muscular failure. Once you can no longer move the weight anymore, are you saying that you used to quit the set before the muscle actually failed? Yes. And I think that everyone's definition of muscular failure changes during the career because intensity changes over time. Yeah, it was a kid getting started. I was in pain. And everyone thought I was nuts. And then I learned I was a child. And there was big jumps to go for. And I would say every year or so, if I were to look back, what I thought was failure versus what really was altered. I mean, we were filming, or we were training in the gym one day. Ron, I think you would know this guy as I can't remember his name, but he was, he was down there filming the gym. Apparently this was what he does. He goes to gyms, films, I'm talks about the equipment, whatever. And I was training legs and he's like more people need to see you train. Like people don't train like this. And I kind of laughed because I know it's like 70% of what it used to be. You know, you're muted. I'm still muted. I was peeing very loudly. I don't know where I, I think I got it from meadows, but he put it into words. And I was like, oh, yeah, that's, that's sensible to me. He said that he considered failure a 5% form break. And then he said there's certain exercises where you don't want even 5% of your form to break. But other things, it's very safe to 5% form break. Like he said on everything rowing and pull down, 5% form break is you're still in a very good ability to stimulate muscle, but you're technically failing. And you're saying, yeah, whereas like a stiff leg deadlift, you don't do you want a 5% form break on a deadlift. You know what I mean? So there's certain things he said that we're kind of off that list, but for the most part, you know, like you can't really break form on leg press too much. But you know when you're failing, that's for sure. But he said for a lot of things, you kind of, whatever, the 5% form break. If your form starts to tweak out of perfect, then you're in the mechanical failure range and you're set to terminate depending on your form. And you're going to terminate depending on exactly what you're doing and how dangerous it is. But I still think there's a point of that, Ron, that's mental. Like yes, yes, there is just a big piece of that of understanding. Yeah, because it's like, I wish there was a way to tell my clients a rep range and then have them ignore it. Yeah, I know what happens is you tell them like I want a hard 8 to 10. And at 7 they're cruising and all of a sudden 8, you just watch it get heavy and you're like, that's not how a muscle works. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's you realizing you're almost at the end of range and you've decided it's heavy and then you squeak out the 10th rep. And if you, if in an inexperienced person was watching, they go, that was failure. And I'm like, nah, because I saw the 7th rep. Yeah, that was your brain starting to fail and your body listening to it and following through. And that's the part that I think where I say it changes. I do agree to though that there's, there's the factor of the 5% form break, but then there's also. You know, and Ron, we've talked about this before, like, I used to watch Branch Warren train and I was like, I was about 5% form break. The whole set was 15% form break. Yeah, and yeah, and I would say, in my head and here I am, this chump that could never be on his level and I was like, imagine if he would do that right. How much better he'd stimulate that muscle. And then I saw him train in person and watched the muscle and I was like, he could not have that muscle more lost. So it could shit on the way he's doing it. It's just his connection to his muscle is so much better than mine that there's probably zero difference if he went lighter and did the form perfectly. Yeah, so it's one of those things where you really have to know that side of things too when you're watching because, you know, I am a loose form kind of guy and a lot of stuff. And I would watch Branch and be like, what a waste. And tell I saw him in person and I was like, I'm an idiot. I think one of the main keys is that Branch was standardized. Like everything was standardized. Well, wasn't like side laterals were different from week to week. Right. We're getting four. He could, he'll progress. Right. Yeah, I'm excited. I'm everything is standardized. It was done that way and then progression was just done on top of that. Right. Yeah, at the end of the day like, you know, it didn't get sloppy or as you got heavier. Right. Right. Every work it was the same. You know, he squats for the same all the time. It's you know, everything was done the same. So even though he's done his way, he's still able to progress within those parameters, which is at the end of the day, the key. Yeah. So it's funny you say that wrong because I've started to, now that my knee is better from the stem cells. I started trying to train heavier again on like rose and stuff. And I put like three 75 on the bar to do that stop rose the other day and I was like, well, you know, I can yank him like I always do. And it was just heavy. And then I, and then I looked at the video. It was fucking terrible. Nothing was stimulated at all. I was just heaving it as hard as I could in denial of the fact that I'm just weaker than I used to be. And it's going to take some time. So you do have to get to that point where you're like you said it's back to the standardized because I was like, well, this is significantly less than before. So it should be fine. Whereas three 15, I could do correctly. And you know, my correctly. And then as soon as it was 355 or he'd know, it was 365, it was a train wreck. What about this one guys? We had one from the mountain. He said, from an outside perspective, I think this is the main driver for Nick Walker's development in the past few years. Anger. What was that again? The main factor of his development over the last few years. And you said anger, I didn't hear you. I just, yeah, I said anger. No, I think that my take is a lot different than I think most. I think the main developing factor for Nick Walker is two more years. A lot of people really lean into, I'm going to call out my old training partner Tommy. He's really changed his training. It's, it's, in my opinion, two light, two controlled, two exact. And he's gotten better. Oh, Tommy. Okay, he got better though. So we got better. And I think that in his head he really credited all of the better to the changes. And I think that 50% of the better is the changes in 50% is two more years of doing everything perfect every day. So, and I told him this, what I'll mind, and I will never say something. I wouldn't say, right? Somebody's to let it out publicly. I think if he did half, like a 50% line between what he used to do, and we did last year, and then had one more year, the growth would be better. Because I think there's a line between the two spots that's the sweet spot. I think before it was too far, the laugh now, it's too far the right. If we just come to the middle and have more time, but I think it's hard to do because you're looking and forgetting that you just had two more years of being perfect. And I point that out because next training, it's not light, but it is flawless. Yes, it's beautiful to watch. But I think he's very, very connected to it. I think it's a great decision because he's, I don't think most people realize how ridiculously strong neck is, and he's so strong that it's an injury waiting to happen. So finding a way and Ron convinced me to do this late micro, finding a way to make lighter weight heavy is very smart when you're extremely strong. Because something's going to give, but I really do think, I think that Nick is, his, I would say, Nick's focus and his commitment to being the greatest bodybuilding world is unmasked in the sport. I don't think that anyone, they might be on his level, but no one is more focused. No one thinks sleeps, you know, eats bodybuilding more than Nick Walker. And when you do that 365 days a year for two more years, you get better. Yeah, and then I just think of his genetics too, like where he's coming from, you know what I mean? Like coupled that with his work ethic and that's how we have what we see today, you know? I'm just excited to see him on the stage again, because you know, I'm thinking about the last two Olympians. I'm like, yeah, I keep forgetting whether you're in them. Yeah, yeah, I like his touch of fan favorite, and I say that as a fan, like it's, I can't imagine how he felt not being on that stage because it sucked to be there as a fan to know that one of the absolute best in the world was on the stage. Yeah, I just, I mean as a fan, you just want the best guys up there, so we can find out who is the best right now, you know? And he is that guy, contrary to what Bob and Sean think, Nick Walker is that guy. Do you guys think he'll win the, you know, they have like the people's choice or yes? Yeah, hammer-hody. Those are your two choice. What about, what about worse? I don't think worse is in the mix enough. No, not yet. No, because, and I don't know how we haven't talked about this yet, but I think what he's done is phenomenal, but he has to turn around. And when you face the back on that Olympia stage, everyone who's really on his train will find out he is a long way from number one right now. Yeah, he's got work to do, and that sounds like such a shot, and it's not. No, it's a big stage of the world, you know? It's just that his back is really lacking for that level, and that's what happens. I mean, great guys, let's go back and remember Jay caught their first Olympia. Wow, and it's second last. And he looked ridiculous. Yeah, it was just that big of a show. You're like, oh, you know what I mean? So, if he were to win the people's championship, because everyone loves him, which I understand, he's an awesome guy. But I think if you're talking about the people's champ who's also really in the mix, it's got to be Nick. I mean, I already sent my voting, and they really couldn't. Have you guys ever voted in that? You know how they're like, oh, you can text this number right now. I don't do that for anything. You do that answer. You just asked two of the ladies, these people, the planet, if we actually bid their phone, watch it. No, I do the answer. So I remember the first year, I remember the first year they did it when Hottie won the People's Choice Award. And I remember like, I think I even like opened my phone. I was like, oh, I'm just going to see, but I couldn't get it to work. Like I'd like open a thing and make an account or so I just, there was no. Once there was a second step wrong, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Wrong one of the look at his phone, I go, Hottie, and then have a count. Yeah, that's it. I think take away all the, all the friction. You know, friction points. I don't do them. No. Good to be more like Uber eats. Anyway. We've got like a general diet question here. Leah, she says, I'm trying to help my friend with weight loss. You guys recommend that she suggests keto. No, not off the bat. I wouldn't put anybody on a diet where they're not allowed to eat an entire macronutrient at all. I'm just setting normal people up for failure. Yeah. That's I recommend with someone who's just trying to lose weight. Don't be in a rush to lose weight. Put them on a program that they can do forever. Yeah. Because anything that's temporary is a loss. That's why so many, I'll say Americans, but people lose weight and gain it back because they're on a program. They can't do all the time like, you know, I eat the same foods every day because I like it. Yeah. But if, if it's not those things, then make it easier and make it possible. I work with a lot of gen pot people. And I'll, I literally tell them all the time, you know, they're like, I'm struggling to this. I'm like, okay, let's make it easier. Well, I want to lose. We're not going to lose if you don't follow the diet. So if I'm going to diet a little easier, you're going to lose slower. Yeah. But we're heading in the red direction and you're being successful. Like every day you're saying I did what was on the plan. You know what I mean? It's, it's just one of those things. Same thing like when people are excited. They're like, I'll do 45 minutes cardio every day. And you're like, what you do that in a year? Right. Let's not do that. Can we do 8,000 steps a day? Every day? I'll take it. Right. Yeah. I'm with you 100% on that. I'm going steady. This low in steady wins the race idea that no one wants to hear anymore. Donald, Donald with us, he says, eat less. That's my tip. Yeah. Yes. Eat less. Move more. They're different hungry. You need to. Yeah. Yeah. You know how I told you that I, I long time ago, but I told you guys, I had like, when I was a kid and I got into bodybuilding and I was just toying with it. But I like stopped training for a bit. Got lazy and I got small. And I went over to my girlfriends grandmother's house one time and she's like, Did you get sick? He looked terrible. So she just blatantly calls me out and I was like, Obviously that was the kick in the ass that I needed and I got moving. But I remember like, man, she's heartless. And then we were over at her house again and her cousin was with us. And she's like, she looks at her cousin goes, you need to start like, work and out. And she was like, why? Because you're fat. And then she goes, the first thing I suggest you do is start pushing away from the table. And I was like, Oh, okay. So what she said to me wasn't that mean. Like, yeah. So I had a client who's a Jen pop guy. And he's down like 40 pounds at this point in the last, you know, eight months. Nice. And he said to me that he goes, you know what? I don't realize, I don't realize what my problem was until now. He's like, I was never hungry because I always raising on crap. Yeah. And he's like, when I first started eating this meal plan and I was getting like hungry between meals, I was like, oh my god, what is this feeling? And he was like, I was just at the slightest hint of desire. I would just eat whatever. Yeah. So I never really got hungry. And he's like, now I'm like, starving. And then I eat a meal and I'm like, oh, that's good. And then two hours go by and I'm like, oh, I'm going to start. And he said, but he's embraced the feeling because he's like, whenever I get hungry, I just think this is where fat burns. Yep. This is where my glucogon is up. Yep. You know what I mean? And he's like, he's like, now that I understand chemistry of the blood chemistry and the hormone battle of fat burning and being in a deficit and he's like, oh, it's like, when I get hungry, I'm like, oh, yeah, we're burning fat right now. We're going to be fat. And he's sitting at his job and he's like, I'm getting leaner right now as I'm working. Because I'm hungry. Yeah. He's starting to freak out if you aren't hungry. No, I mean, I said he embraced that hour. He's like, this is like, he's like, I'm Texas. It's like when people think they're burning fat doing a cardio. Right. Yeah. This is when you're growing fat when you're sitting at your desk hungry. Your next meals an hour away and your in a deficit. He's like, I love it. I understand now that this is how it. Like this is what matters. And I was like, oh, good. Like I do another thing, you know, that the whole matters is actually a good friend of mine. He posted this on his Instagram yesterday. So he knows bodybuilding. He always measures proteins, carbs, fats. And he said he was, he started just putting cheese on his meals. A couple meals a day, cheese. And he said he saw his wife put cheese on her meal and he laughed at it. He goes, that was that. Why didn't bother? And she's like, that's a serving. And he's like, that's a proper serving of cheese. And a lot. So he put his food on a scale and then he put the cheese on. And then he put the cheese on. And then he did the math. And he was consuming 500 calories from cheese a day. Oh God. Yeah, it's easy to do man. Peanut butter is the same way. You know what I mean? Yep. Yeah. A tablespoon is not what you think ladies are doing. Big enough. Yeah. I point that out is because people don't realize like the amount of clients I've had they're like, I'm on the diet perfect. I'm like, it's impossible. You're math, it's impossible. And then we start finding out about a little bite of this and a little of that. And a little bit of a round of tables when a peanut butter. And they don't realize it all of a sudden that's 300 calories a day. Yeah. You're going your off. You don't need to hear me. You know, I need to hear me. I said my country. I just think that could it can also be a thousand calories for some people. Easy. Yeah. And that's why you have to watch everything. Yeah. So for the person that asked about your friend like that is a huge thing because it's one bite of this like, you know, my mother used to always have candy dishes in her house. I just asked her to take them out. Because I want to have a bite. Oh, I know. There are two. There are two. There are two. I mean, I was a guy going to walk by M&M and not eat some. I was like, these got to go. I'm like you're killing me. Hey, what about what about this one here? This is an older question, but we never got to it. And it was for it's just body building. So this is it'll show you. This is two months old now. Saddened by the news of Hulk Hogan. RIP Hulkster. There we go. Rank the top three 90s. W W F wrestlers. And if if wait, hold on a second. The rest of the day. And if you put into a body building competition. So I guess they feel like the best physique of 90s wrestling. I would say if you're going into a competition. You gotta be ripped. Right. So the condition kills, right? So you know, you got guys like war lord and, you know, animal from, you know, the tag teams, war lord from powers of pain and animal from the road warriors. Legion of Doom. Guys are a big could easily dual body building show huge traps probably 20 and charms, but they weren't shredded. Yeah. Right. They were like off season bulked up big power of power looking guys. So if you look at for shredded guys, you got the warrior. Yeah. Ultimate warrior. Yeah. The text is tornado carry vinae. Okay. I got a very short window. There's a movie about him now of that whole family. But the text is tornado carry vinae. He was only in the WWE after a short period of time. But he was built like the warrior. Big, beautiful physique. And he got like guys like was Rick rude big enough to do a body building show. He was probably 5% body fat. Your shredd. He was always peeled and Rick rude looked pretty damn good. I wonder if his quads were separated. You know what I mean? Like I wonder if I was like that. So if you had a pose that would be. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I'm thinking. Those are kind of guys I'm thinking of from my era. Oh yeah. Carry Von Eric. You looked good. He had a point. Can you throw a picture up of him? No. Yeah. Post production if I remember. That'll be a lot easier that way than trying to remember. Right now. It always amazes me how many of those. Like those wrestlers like did we go? You ever hear of Bobby Lashley? He was like 2000s. See that's carry Von Eric. Yes. He looks good. He looked good. Good size on that guy. You know like. I wonder what that guy's on. It was like 1990. They were on the same thing. The same thing you were on but more because you had more money. It was all like veterinary and prop. Yeah. It was like a real birthday. You know, he wanted those bottles that he could kick it around. It's 50 migs a mill. What was a. Was a macho man Randy Savage was he in good shape. I can't remember. He was great. He wasn't quite like bodybuilder. He was obviously worked out in the gym every day. Yeah. He had him listed at 240. But he was probably more like 225. But yeah. Okay. He's my favorite wrestler. I'm a macho man. Mad man. I'm a macho man Randy Savage old school. Macho man with the three stars on his trunk. Do you want to fly an elbow? Forget about it. Forget about it. Macho man. I'm a macho man. Oh yeah. I think in the air. Oh yeah. It's misallus. You're up on it shoulder. WrestleMania four when he won the tournament to get the belt. My highlight of my wrestling life. So wrestling was really popular in Canada. Overall, isn't it? They just have like a big wrestling school up there and everything. I don't want you. Yeah. Well, yeah. Pro Wrestling is in the Western Canadian DNA. And the flying elbow off the top rope. That's the best finisher ever. Macho man. He was the he owned that. It was so awesome. As a little kid, I felt like he was 100 feet in the air. Three quarters away across the ring. Boom. Yeah. I don't think people realize though that though. Like you kind of said that like it's just common knowledge. But for like the rest of us. I don't think that a lot of people really know the connection of like Canadians and wrestling. Well, in Calgary, that's where the heart families from. Okay. So so stew heart legendary stew heart who's passed away now. He's very well could get the order of Canada one day. Post humorously. He's a hero to Canadians and a legend. He trained the heart family in what was called the dungeon, which was just his basement. And the dungeon was where guys came from all over the world to learn how to pro wrestle. And it was hard. You get beat up. You some guys never go back. Some guys pack repeatedly. And then you get into stand. He'd wrestling, which was like the Western Canadian kind of, you know, in the 80s at Stampede Wrestling Toured Around. And then the good guys could suck up from stampede the WF, right? That was kind of the chain of reaction back in those days. So all the hearts came through stampede. Brett. Jim the Anvil Night Heart. You know, British Bulldog Dynamite Kid. The British Bulldogs they came through Stampede Wrestling. Everyone came through there. It was from Canada or came through Canada. And yeah, I knew guys that went and trained in the dungeon and really. It was Stampede. Yeah, I had a friend at Toured with Stampede and wrestled with them. And yeah, it was a really big part of pro wrestling. And everybody in the world who was at the top of the game were like, Oh, you trained with the hearts. Oh, okay. You know your shit. You know how to work. You know where you're at work or you trained with the hearts. You know what you're doing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Was this kind of a, I knew a lot of guys at era that did that. So do you see a lot of guys like just in the gyms and stuff that like, oh, yeah, these guys are wrestlers over here. Yeah. Like when I would go to Calgary, I told that story about going to train at pro bodies and Calgary, which used to be where a lot of them would train when they were in town. So I like remember seeing David Boy Smith there. And like, you know, I see Brett saw Brett hard at pro bodies. And you know, when the guys were in town, they would when they were in town training at the dungeon, they would go train at pro bodies. Yeah. That's awesome. Yeah. That's cool. I'm not sure even made a documentary about stew. I mean, like a Canadian documentary about him. Yeah. She liked the way I did that by the way, dusty. I just I knew that like if I said something about wrestling, brownwood have like all history. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Now it's, it's just, it's, it's the great thing about Ron is that he's going to know. He's going to know. So sometimes I'll just randomly text him. Should I even know about just see what he knows. Like, ah, he did know. Yeah. Yeah. If I was ever on like who wants to be a millionaire or anything like that, the phone call. Lifeline. Yeah. I know. Oh, yeah. Every time that's so funny, I've had a lot of people go, can you believe my phone a friend? I don't want to let you down. I called Victoria first. And then I call Ron. Ron. Next. Plus I know if I called Ron. Yeah. He would answer because I don't call people. So he would think I'm dying or something. It'd be definitely pick up. He must be dying. I better get this one. Yeah. He must be dying. Yeah. Has to be. Last time he didn't call he was already dead. I think we have any other questions. You know what though you guys could tell us about your TV shows that you're watching. I always love hearing about that. Black rabbit. Have you guys seen some of them waiting to? Oh, give us a minute. I was talking about that. Dude. The first couple episodes. I had to watch a show afterwards before I could go to bed because the way that these people are ruining their lives like stresses me out. We probably won't be watching that show then. Oh, it's so good. Black rabbit. Yeah. It is so good. It's. Yeah. That's and you know, the actors in it are phenomenal. He got baitmen who can be hysterical or play the role he's playing in this phenomenally. Jude Laws and it. Yeah. This is we've been on fire because of you guys primarily on on good shows, but this one is up there with any of you will not be disappointed around. After you're letting watch an episode and you'll immediately amelial with like this is why I married you. We got it. We've got it marked. We've got. Oh, what do you watch? First. Well, I'll tell you what I'm watching now. We're going to get one elbow drop from Montreal Man. Oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Playing elbow drop on the punch. I can't get enough from the top. You've got to put both fingers in the air too. Oh, yeah. Here we go. Right. Oh, my God. I'm electrified. Oh, okay. This is the rest of his afternoon. That's afternoon. We'll go watch some greatest of much of man hits after this. I'm going to find some. What am I watching right now? We are actually in limbo right now. So we're going to start black rabbit. We got it marked. And we've all we've also got another show on Netflix. It's got Tony Colette. And it seems like she's running like a therapy camp. Okay. That's what you're going to do. You go there and oh, shit. What's going on here? Are these people? Is this some kind of psycho? You know what I mean? Like I like it. Is this? Is this? I'm going to see what the thing is. And shit happening. The newest series. What's your number of the old. You gotta look at that. Wayward. Wayward. Oh, we saw the commercial for that one. Yeah. Yeah, that's what that looks like. Yeah. That looks like a different way. Yeah. Yeah. That looks interesting. So yeah, that's a good one. We've been watching some light stuff. There's a good show. I like called Only Murders in the Building. Oh, yeah. What a great cast. It really is. I don't know enough names to be able to say you can tell of the names, Ron. Who are who's all in there? What are your favorite shows? Martin Short. Yeah. Yeah. Martin Short. Steve. Yeah. Yeah. So Martin Short, Steve Martin. Yes, he's. Yeah. So Martin Short, Steve Martin Selena home has. Merrill, Streep, Tia Leonie. Like Jane Lynch, like what a great. Evilongoria. Renee Zowinger, like just as huge cast of like long time stars. Haven't fun on this. And what do they do? Does it's it's a podcast. They have a podcast. And that's. Yes. So there's like as a podcaster, there's like podcast humor, which I appreciate right now. I have a watch, but I've been told to watch it. are murder in the building and that they end up starting to like investigate it with their podcast and it takes off. Yeah, it takes off from there. So it's a lot of fun and it's the kind of show that you can watch and then immediately go to bed after. You know what I'm saying? You know, you don't even drink a buffer. Yeah, right. We like you don't watch that. And we're just like, oh my god. Yeah. Yeah. We watched Jack Ryan before that. Like that it's kind of intense on them. I want to see the lioness if you guys seen that one. We liked it. Lioness is great. It's more what's his name Taylor what's the guy's name. Sure. Taylor shared it. It's a Tyler shared him whatever. It's another one of his like formula, L. Okay. Oh, yeah. Like it's the same formula for every show, right? You just put it in a different world. You hear the action stuff that guns that they use. Like it's all like right on point. So I want to watch that for sure. There's a nation. You know, you watch chilled maybe. Did you watch the terminalists Scott? Uh-huh. No. Watch the terminalists then watch the terminalists dark wolf. I heard they're both gay. Okay. nominal. Victoria, you're watching. Make note. She'll make no to that. There's a scene in the lioness. It gets the end of season one. Yeah, the scene dusty and there's a scene that is so awesome. It is like you're kind of waiting for it all season and it's tense and then you get it and you're like, oh, the claw that's so satisfying. And there's that amazing rescue and they have to go to Mexico to get that senator. Oh, wow. That's a great. It's like politically. They're not allowed to cross the border with military vehicles, but they're going in. They're going to the end. They're getting her anyways and they just want to get out without getting on the news, right? Yeah. So they do this like covert broad daylight. Fucking go get her trip and uh, yeah, it's rough. It doesn't go great. Show. Yeah. Yeah. I'm going to see one upon the news. You're not supposed to go over the borders and then also end up on the news. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, and it's a great one. Nicole Kidman is in it. She doesn't, she's not a main character, but she's a very important role character, where she's kind of in charge of this covert black ops thing. Okay. And every once in a while, they got to go deal with Kidman and she's got to try to convince the higher ops that they need to do should this shit, you know? Yeah. That's really good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Great show. Yeah. We've got that one lined up and at some point we'll get to that. But yeah, we've been keeping it kind of lightly just the light shows. And we watch stuff like you guys ever watch, oh, what's the expedition on knowing? You ever see that show? No. Where he goes in like there was like this rumor of like that the Nazis had buried gold and it was, you know, in an unsunk bunker and it's never been found. And so they have like guys that come in was light are and you know, the whole show is like they're trying to find like pirate treasure from the 1600s. And so it's, you know, easy stuff. Easy stuff that you can just like watching go to sleep. We go dark before bed to make sure that they're doing the server. I'm not allowed to do that. I love you. And I love you. And I love you that. Well, Scott, I'm glad that you made the move coming to the Olympia. Yes. Would not have been proper without you. Oh, yeah, be able to say that. Yeah. Yeah. Scott is coming. Everyone. I'm excited. I'm going to podcast at the booth. But we will all be there. We'll probably do a little some some videos from one and around talking to people, you know, oh, yeah. Do it right. I will get ready to fly out the morning enough because that's what I do. And we'll be good. I'm going to do a few guys here today. Yeah. I come in on Thursday. So we leave relatively early in the morning. So we'll be there like just in time to check in the hotel get to get in and it's slammed the whole time. I'll be there early. I'll be there like Thursday, early, like leave early and then get there even earlier. Like yeah, like I almost like, you know, time tripled. But the time change, you basically land when you took off. Yeah. Yeah. It's got to be able to those things where like I have to check my luggage in and then come back and get it later. Kind of thing. And I refuse to do if it's at all possible, the Vegas is easy. So there's no layovers one shot. Yeah. There. I always mutant always waits really late to buy their tickets, which means when I buy Nicky's at cost way more. So I just book my own and then send the bill. Yeah. You guys are going to book in like eight weeks. I'm going to book now. Yeah. I know what about. Patriot on by the way, guys. Patriot on is paying for my ticket. So thank you guys very much. Yeah. I just because I wasn't going to do it. You know, I wasn't going to go and we weren't doing the podcast and stuff and and you know, you didn't say anything. And then I thought to myself, you know what, I got to make this happen. And because there's a thing, man, like we have a lot of listeners that are going to show up and I want to get a chance to meet everybody got canned. So and hang out. I don't want to see the deal. I don't want to see the deal. I'm just appointment in their eyes when we say you're not there. Because we're not going to be fine. Oh, it's just you too. Well, you're on the team dinner now, Scott. So you're right. Am I officially? Oh, right. Yeah. I didn't hear about that. I didn't we're doing like an awesome. I think I just put you on the list. Okay. I didn't want to impose. So I don't know. No, so if you want Friday night, you know, you're right. Friday night. I'm there. I'm I'm heading down Wednesday. We're landing Wednesday at noon. Okay. And then we boxy around like one and then we go check in and then we go get our marriage license from the Clark County department. Nice. You know, we've got a meeting with our wedding company at 4 p.m. Just to go over everything. And then the next day they pick us up at noon. And we go out to Fire Valley, which is where the red red rock and all that stuff. We're getting in there. And they're going to be awesome. A lot of just us just to just limit right out there. Keep it simple. She bought a sexy little slash kind of sletty little. Yeah. Stuff. White wedding dress. Nice. And she kept it like it's not it's not like crazy. She said it's not quite Nikki level. As long as she's reaching for it, we're good. He said it's not because he was I'm not I'm not quite Nikki level, but I'm a talk. I love it. So she just means that boobs aren't quite you know totally out. Nikki would have him way out. You know, he's got at least good good cleavage going in this, right? So she I said, Dusty, I love that. I got to tell me. Yes, it's fantastic. And so she got a hot little white dress and I've just got a simple black black dress pants black shirt keeping it. I'm not the feature, right? Yeah. And I'm just going to black out this shoes everything keep it simple and we're going to get married and limo ride back and we're done. Nice. I'm going to show you're meeting somebody to show you just letting them know. Oh yeah, we got married. Yeah, just got married. We got our bands ready to rock. We got everything good to go and just keep it simple. And then we're going to take all the money we didn't spend on a wedding. We're going to invest it. Tell. Yeah. That sounds like a great idea. Good time to do that. Yeah. So anyways, that's that's how we can then the Olympia starts. And you know, as I look forward to a rather great standard Olympia. Remember 21 for me Holy crap. You're kidding me. 21 Olympians. Wow. I think I'm 2002 minus 3. So whatever that is around 20. Okay. Wow. Yeah. I haven't been to nearly as many. I started going because it's it's a lot further west coast for me. So I and I hadn't had reasons. So I've done a lot more Arnold classic. But I think it was like 2018 was my first Olympia. And I think this would be like the fourth or fifth time I've been there in my first Olympia was Ronnie 2020 2003. So I can wow. So that was a hell of a way to go to my first Olympia and see that walk out. Yeah. Like oh okay. We had media passes the first time that I went. And there was like a way to like walk into they were doing like the press conference. And victorious with me. We both had passes. And I went to the other doors. And I was like just walked in with people who knew what they were doing. We got like 50 feet in turned to corner. And I realized that we were backstage. Yeah. Like, we're not supposed to be there. Even though you have media passes, you are not allowed to be there. So instead of leaving, I was just like, oh and I just like stood up against the wall and just stood up. You know, people's way and you're exactly exactly just kind of looked around for a little while. And then of course somebody recognized like, oh, you're not supposed to be here. And then we left. Oh, I didn't know that. Okay. Yeah. I had I had a buddy that went to the Arnold and he got back stage. And he was like, you know what? I just started helping. I just started helping. I'm saying, no big complaints if you're helping. If you're helping you said no one said a friend of mine word to him. He started like picking paper up off the floor put it in the garbage. Who's upstairs asked some people if he needed anything. Oh, that's just actually blue. So I could start helping. You know, they needed help. And then someone was like, hey, can you start helping? I got you. And he was back there for a while. And then he's like, I get to get out of here. And he just laughed. They're really, they're really working right now. I'm out of here. Yeah. Yeah. So that's amazing. You know, yeah. Everyone likes helpful. Everyone has to have a spot that. It's a great cover. I did the back stage. I went all the way down back to the very back stage part right before they go on. Yep. You just sit in there watching everyone's lined up. They're trying to look at those little tiny mirrors. They're on the wall. Yeah. I'm like, I don't even know how I got here. But this is awesome. Imagine if you saw someone like tidying up, putting garbage away, taking empty bottles. You could tell me that. Yeah. You would be like, you wouldn't let that guy do this thing. He's obviously supposed to be here. Why would he be cleaning if he wants to. I've told this story. Friends or genius. But I was backstage all day at the Arnold. There's 2000. And I think 20. I think it was that year. So I'm backstage all day. And I had like full access to shoot video and stuff. I'm like in the pump up room and all of that. And then Victoria was off doing some sort of lecture thing for the day. But she was going to come in the evening. And Mike Davies got her back there for me too. So I went and grabbed her and Mike escorted her beyond the point where we then we could get in. So we're walking behind the stage. So there's the press area that's backstage. You know, dusty. And then you walk that long stage. And then you come around and then that's where everybody's pumping up. Yeah. We got around the corner. Everybody's pumping up. First thing you see, there's big ramen just doing lateral races. And he had seen me all day long, right? So the second I come around the corner, I'm face to face with him. Victoria's never been there. And now mind you, we hadn't really dated for that long yet, right? And big ramen he couldn't have done it better job. He'd freak his out. Just gives me a fist bump. Like because he's, you know, he'd seen me all day. Doesn't know me, right? But it looks like he did. But I was like, what's up, man? You know, guys, I got Victoria with me on the eight. Welcome back, Snitch. This is what I do. It's just what I do. Yeah, which is not the truth. But dude, it is so crazy, isn't it? The have that experience, dusty? Absolutely. Plus it's, you know what is funny is after the fact I was like, because if the Olympia, the backstage areas, like a gym, yeah, it's I haven't been back there. It's really, yeah, there's a lot of stuff back there. And the Arnold is really basic. It's like a local level show back there. It's got some dumbbells laying around a couple of inches and that's kind of it. And you're like, I don't mean to sound disappointed because the guys are impressive, but I'm not surprised. This might be different now because this was a year ago, but I remember thinking like, oh, so bodybuilding never really changes. This is what a backstage is. Yeah, you still look at fair pair of 20s. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Bring your own base in a band. I'm going to band where to go. Is that classic at the Arnold notes that classic green carpeted hallway? And what I saw that I knew that from every jacolor video. You know what I mean? Walking down that hallway. You're absolutely miss. Yeah. Classics. All right. All well, hopefully we'll be seeing a ton of you guys this weekend. So make sure if you see us walking around anywhere, stop us because we owe you a thanks for supporting this and for flying Scott out. Yes, absolutely. I can't wait to meet everybody. Yeah, fantastic. I have one thing left to do and I need both of your advice after the show. Maybe you can message me. I need to make a reservation at a restaurant for after we get married and I would have done that yet. Okay. Flex. What'd you say? Go to text flex. Good. You didn't know. Oh, okay. Just text flex. Yeah. Yeah. And he knows every restaurant there. So. Okay. Yeah, that's probably a better move. Okay. And I'm going to wind it by like a $500 stake. Am I? You didn't say that part. Oh, but okay. That I'll give you some spots. You might just do in and out. We're being in and out. Photos with the wedding dress have been cool. There's a great talk of place right across the street from. Or maybe too invest. You forget you're talking to. I'm like, no, I never let's go. Okay. I said what do you want to do? She's like, that's just how the good steak. I'm like. Okay. Amazing. I love it. And that's a perfect way to lock out the wedding. I'll figure something out. Okay, guys. It's Thursday. I know. I know. Thank you very much, fellas. Thanks to everyone who was on the live and looking forward to this one coming out. Our show with a really chemist got did really well. Yeah. Yeah. Hey. A great great bet. Yeah. A bunch of people message me. They're like, oh, I've got to try some of this stuff. They're all excited. Yeah. And also I got tagged. I bunch of people who stayed for last five minute crew and were like, I can't believe you talked about guitars. I love it. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was pretty cool. And Pat, Pat, one, our listener, Pat one who just competed last weekend. I can gradst to her at our show last weekend, but she was over the moon of both the guitar talks. So, oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I, so I almost clip that out, Ron, and then like put it as just like a separate thing because it was like 20 minutes. You know what I mean? Right. I was like, man, people are going to miss this because they might not stay that long. And I was like, not well, even for the last five minute crew. So I dropped it in the show. Yeah. And almost people don't give a two shits, but there's a group of people that were just in love. So yeah. If you don't like it, you turn it off. You're good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's it. Oh, wait. You don't want. Yeah. Okay. Thanks. Thanks guys. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment and yes, and remember, I am mutant.com. Go to I am mutant.com. Get your hardcore ISO, get your mind FK, and everyone should get on the gear. All the guys are concerned. We're concerned about that too. So, you are. Whoa. Save money. Get on the gear and have a delivered to your house. Sheeper and faster. Just think cheaper and faster. That's how you need to know. Okay. Dusty and big round of your codes. Okay, guys. That's it. We get to go Scott. Yeah. We are. Okay. I always Scott was loud. I think he's laughing at me. I just let it go. Cheers, everybody. Remember, it's just bodybuilding.

We've seen Oxia 2025 milligrams actually be quite effective. Yeah. So I think you could potentially run that with something like, say, 25, out of our, and probably offset the appetite suppression quite significantly. What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I've Scott McNally and all of our programming is brought to you by you. The people of Patreon. We've got some Patreon questions today. We're brought to you by evalblotanellysis.com. You can get your labs done by Dave if you're in the UK. We're brought to you by Strom Sports Nutrition. Check them out in the US and the UK. I've got links to them and Patreon and to eval down below as well as to truenutrition.com. News are a code think over there for all your basic body building supplements like Protein Powder, Creatin, and Intra workout and for our Canadians SupplementSource.ca. They have great deals that change week to week. Dave, we've got a bunch of Patreon questions today. We've got some fun topics. We're going to talk all sorts of gear stuff today as usual. But before we get started, I want to let everybody know. In case you didn't know, Dave is an expert witness for the court systems. He is considered to be an expert on antibiotics. And that's why we have him here today. You reached four hundred and fifteen pounds. If you guys don't believe it, go watch under construction of the film and under construction too. It's not Photoshop. It's all legit. And I've been coaching for 15 years now. So we're here to just share our education and our experiences with you. I would never say that anything we say is the only way to do things. But at the end of the day, there are a lot of ways and we've had a lot of experience. We don't advocate you guys do any of this stuff by the way. Our goal is to work some harm reduction YouTube. So that's the spill. What's up, Dave? You're still in France and you're absolutely, are you but naked right now? I'm in a G string put that in. I left this in thong put that in your head. There you go. I'm from a lot of teaching needed for the audience. Dave doesn't have a shirt on today. Is it hot in France? It's not as hot as it was where we are now. It's about 28. So it's okay. It's reasonable. Obviously where we were before, in the 40s and I was dying. I looked it up on the map. You're like in our north of Paris right now. Yeah. We've been making this way back up. So tomorrow we're going to get within an hour of Calais. We're just stop over and then jump on the channel Thursday morning. Okay. You know what we have to do real soon. I'd bunch of our listeners reached out and they're like, have you guys seen confessions of a steroid gang? It's a BBC kind of semi documentary story type thing. And you're in it. And I watched it, but yeah, we'll do like a reaction to it. Me and you'll do that real soon. But we had a bunch of listeners who have already seen it. How long ago did you guys film that thing? Go. 6-12 months ago. I think he could have been as long as 12 months ago. Okay, it was a lot of good. It looks good. It looks like they looked like it went through a good light. It was winter because it was the film that got a northern fitness. And we're getting freezing in there. That gym looked cool, man. It's in a top four of an old textile mill. Okay, yeah, that gym looked cool. You guys will enjoy this. If you haven't seen it, you can go see it. I saw, I don't know where it's available in the US. I got a bootleg version of it. But it's on that BBC eye player or something like that. All right. All right, listen, let's jump into this thing, man. And if you guys have any questions that you want to have on the next show, then definitely comment below. Plus we're recording this on the Think Big Live channel. You guys can jump in in the live stream. But to start us out, I thought this was kind of a novel and interesting question. It's not one we've really heard a lot, but it makes sense. So Mikey says, here's a question for the next episode. Is there a mechanistic reason while you should avoid mixing orals? I would think mixing orals, just like mixing injectables, would improve the side effect profile. It seems the general consensus is never to mix orals regardless of the total milligrams or relative toxicity. I was looking at doing 20 oxa milligrams. That is, and then two times 10 milligrams per day of deba, so that's 20 milligrams, deba and PM, all together, 20, and 10 milligrams of oral terrain of ball. How would this compare to just running 50 anodroller, 50 deba, or 50 deba, or 50 deba, so low with test, obviously? I don't see any real reason against it. I'm not a fan of splitting. I think single dose is more effective with orals. But I don't see any real negative to splitting, because at the end of the day, the main issues around orals are liver stress and stomach appetite impacts. So I would have thought, I'm mixed like that. That's probably going to be a little bit general on the appetite than say running 50 oxa, just as it is. But I don't see any major advantages either. In the fact that, if you're told a milligrams is going to be 50 milligrams, as it is in this case, I don't really see how that's going to be particularly more positive than running 50 milligrams of say, deba, or 50 milligrams of oxa. Yeah, I think it's really all just side effect mitigation, because let's look at the deba, 50 milligrams of deba, you're probably going to deal with a lot more nasty estrogen size. Yeah, you're going to have a estrogen manager issues. But then again, so with all rolls, like with estrogen, it can be managed. I appreciate that it requires another medication to do it, but it can be managed. Yeah. The appetite suppressant from the total load of all rolls is unfortunately just what it is. Yeah, you can take things to boost your appetite, but you're not going to actually stop the appetite suppressant from the orals. That's going to be very much a personal reaction. So I mean, I can see it where you, like in this scenario, you can make yeast management a little bit easier on yourself, because you can run a part of an oral that, you know, so like in this case, we've only got 20 milligrams of deba. But then at the same time, you wouldn't have any estrogen issues if you just run 50 milligrams of anovar. So I don't see anything particularly negative where I'm going, all know you shouldn't be doing that. As long as you control the total doses, I don't think there's an issue, but I don't see a huge advantage to doing it, apart from, like you said, it was all oxe, we'd probably see more significant appetite. There's old deba, we'd probably have to do more issues, you imagine. So I could see some mild bits there, but from a point of view of actual progression, I don't think there'll be a huge negative a positive either way. Yeah, yeah, I kind of like the idea, man. You know, I kind of like this. I mean, I feel like so, so I would get appetite issues with deba, and definitely with anodral, but not so much with wind stroke or anovar. Those seem to be a little bit more mild for me. So now I'm starting to think, well, what if I had a little bit of deba and a little bit of anovar in there, to get the total milligrams up higher, you know, the combined effort, like his combo here, he only has 10 milligrams of oral terenable. That's not a lot. Like if you're just taking 10 milligrams of deba on its own, I'd do 20, I do 20, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, all 20 of age. I might do that too. You're going to get less estrogen from 10 deba, you know what I mean? And the oral terenable, you're not going to have to worry about estrogen in the same way. So yeah, I could see doing something. I could see this, man. I mean, my experience is kind of limited with mixing orals. I mentioned this before. I had a client who had a prescription for these these capsules that were compounded, 25 and of our 25 wind stroke per cat. And you know what I was like, yeah, well, let's give it a run. You know, well, we did everything else we needed to for the contest prep. Got him peeled and we ran that for like the last six weeks or something like that. And was it any real different than just 50 milligrams of wind stroke? No, but, I mean, you're probably going to be less likely to get the side effects from wind stroke, like joint pain. Yeah. Yeah. So I can see something in it. I don't think he's, from a point of view of side mitigation, I can see something in it. From a point of view of having any magic synergy that increases growth now. Yeah. I don't know. But can you make a favorite might make sides a little bit more manageable depending on the individual? Can you think of any other combos that you would, that you would think possibly would be of benefit versus just running more of the one? Well, all the combo. Yeah. All the combo. Yeah. I can see a limitation of debaugh just because of the ancient being synthetic and quite impacting. Yeah. I can see an advantage to limit in we've seen Oxia 20, 25 milligrams actually be quite effective. Yeah. So I think you could potentially run that with something like say 25, I know. And I'm probably offset the appetite suppression quite significantly. Yeah. I don't think there is an all-all that's long enough, it's hard than Oxia. Yeah. I'd agree with you there. You know, it is particularly nasty for it. I can see some little bits and again with the winds roll. We know each of very effective compound and the stuff that's got clever Scott, not you. Not old Scott, clever Scott. So the stuff that clever Scott, you know the resouce that you were sharing about how effective winds roll is as a compound. But that long-term issue is the joint. So maybe you could offset that a little bit. And part of that issue with winds roll is anti-easyogenic and anti-progestemic action. So maybe coupling that with something like debaugh might actually give you a little bit of an offset balance and allowing you to win winds roll for a slightly longer period. Obviously, live a stress and other things all being considered. So yeah, I can see some, I think it potentially comes more into our own on an all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all, because one of the big limit, in fact, is to all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all-all. Yeah. Lots of, you were saying, doing an anover-only cycle but you added in a limited amount of debaugh. You're going to get the methyl-astrogen from the debaugh, so you might not get as many libido issues at five weeks in. Yeah, yeah, see that. Yeah, I'm going to see if I do even five milligrams debaub would probably give you enough, you know Yeah, so I could see I could see some yeah, you know I can see probably more benefits now. We've talked about it on initially Yeah, I By the way, too, who's that Frenchman over there that's decided to start up the leaf blower while we started recording Please I'm not here at this second, but I heard it I go to To a pop night and then sleep in the middle Go tell uh, yeah, all right anyway Tanya said People get so overly energized about any blended all dude. I really feel that way man people Especially like newer guys. They love the idea of a good blend. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, there was some what I mean they were called beast tabs Yeah, and they were like oxydeeble Oh, I'm like it's all of it just all of it one yeah, yeah, keep you think Yeah, we had a listener mentioned an unbladswetting gear It was like injectable pre-workout blend that had like methyl trend and test suspension and you know Everything else super draw and anadraw like all in one shot, you know Mephotrans harsh stuff Yeah, very harsh stuff. What I don't really mess with with people I I could see that more in a Power situation or a ston even then exposure needs to be very limited it is Particularly nasty on living in good news is my full turn. Yeah, hey, you know I want to get back to this one down the road You know every time we've talked about DHB. It's just a little teaser Dave, but every time we talked about DHB They'll be somebody that chimes in and says oh man, it's super toxic, you know That's the problem with DHB and I was thinking well, where does this come from? I ran it twice I don't at the time years ago. We didn't do labs like we do today. This is 2009 that I ran it 2019 in an off season and in a cut in And I didn't recall it being any more toxic than anything else like when I did get my labs done anyway So I did some looking around Steve, vigorous Steve has a video on it and he says there was only like two research studies and both of them did show toxicity Both inflammation and liver values and then before him more plates did a video that the title was like DHB most toxic steroid question mark anyway So since then I've had a few people running it and we did labs when they started we did labs six weeks in And so far I've seen no no changes man. I'm I started running it a little bit a little DHB TRT myself I think for DHB one is It isn't everything so it can be a particularly painful injection And that can cause some systematic information Yeah, so I think there is an information factor with it that that probably needs some control Now EQ and DHB have shown to increase liver weight Okay and mainly with the formation of What basically become um Got my brains gone vacation technically Hmm excuse me holiday you're on holiday that vacation but the bottom line is the the sort of if they form Cavities which then fill in hard and but What's being shown is that they don't actually have any real negative impact on function and they're only generally discovered post-bought and Um, I'm no they're not the cause of why you're having a post more and but they just you know they're finding when they do post more Yeah, so yeah, there is definitely some liver impacts how How negative they are I'm I'm Don't I'm not really aware of anything that shows them to be super negative for me with DHB's always been the information side of thing that's been The only thing you really need to watch I don't feel DHB is Super toxic but I do Stressful than a lot of the other compounds. I'll keep you posted because Right now like I said I have people that are running it we've done a set of labs before We've done a set of labs during six weeks in and we're looking at liver We're looking at estrogen and we're looking at C reactive protein so we're we're not seeing anything Negative so far and these are at doses of 300 milligrams 400 milligrams and I'm gonna dose it at 200 milligrams along with 100 test as a little bit of DHB RT Okay, all right, hey, let me know if you die. Okay, I'm Matt no of blends People do really love a frickin especially newer guys they love a good blend You know what we've never talked about is Making the blend work for you Here's my thought Dave if you were to use a blend and I had there's been a couple times I'd use a blend one time I got the worst shot of my life from using a blend and I swore him off but other times though I would use a blend in conjunction with more of each compound because the number one thing man is that you can't really control your dosing You know what I mean so I think the other five to raise the each If there's gonna be a compound that has In correct dosing is gonna be a blend above all else because it's so easy to hide in correct dosing in a blend You've seen that like literally I've seen that in lab. Yeah, it's very rare. I see blends Dost on the Zankar right like okay when I'd done a blend I would do like is it let's say that it was 100 milligrams of test trend in mast I would maybe take a half a mill of that and then combine it with additional mast additional test and you know I mean to kind of all-daltrate the dosing to get what I wanted but you know the other factor too is that When we get to injectable blends A lot of times it's higher dose and then now we're dealing with super softens right Yeah, there is that you know obviously you can certainly some of the blends are 400 plus make total concentrations and Obviously you start getting into stronger Harsher solvents to carry that I I wouldn't say I'm against blends per se And I think it can be useful as a foundation if you're gonna be running higher doses of either compound And you use the blend to sort of just create the yeah the base of it Um each more of the reliability around blends that puts me off them rather than just blends themself Yeah fair enough Hey, I got it we did get a lot of questions and we got this comment. I shared it with you this morning This is the best guy says I used to hate Dave But after binge watching the channel I actually like you guys what the what WTF uses and The next guy commented and he says he's okay as long as he's not breathing loudly into the bike coughing yawning or clearing his music mucus for everyone to hear And then the guy follows up because I can't argue with that. It's only he's back on you know Then the original poster comes and said to be honest he rides me reminds me of my grandfather Which I really hated Like I for the funny thing is is that they're saying they like you but It was like the nicest back it the funniest back-aid and couple of it. I've ever had a what I say I'm sorry All right Guys let's talk about intro workout carbs in saving money So like the past 10 15 years intro workouts become super popular. It's a great way to support pre workout insulin use It's great for recovery and it's great for endurance and those long workouts here's the thing it's really expensive It's not only expensive for us it's expensive for supplement companies they really don't make a lot of money off of it That's where turn-o-trition comes in so turn-o-trition They're not only a retailer. They're also a manufacturer They're actually making a lot of the products that you guys are already buying from other companies So just think about it. You're gonna cut out the middle man the only thing you're gonna miss out on is the fancy labels and in the branding Outside of that you're getting the exact same high quality products, but you're getting it directly from the source If you're gonna pay for the price of highly-branched liquid dexterin and sure that you're getting 25 grams Per scoop not of a mix of carbs, but just a highly-branched liquid dexterin We can mix the other stuff in later, you know Use our code think get some savings plus it's like voting for us. It lets them know that you support what we're doing All right, so we did have a bunch of stuff though like I said and if you guys want to take part in the next show We'd love to have yet comment. I see a couple things showing up in the live streaming In fact, we got an uncle Dave's advice about Ozzy Osborn. We'll get to that at the end We got a giant guy Joseph. He says I'm thinking of trying a test deca cycle Into a powerlifting meet this winner. I'd like to keep the total dosage at around a gram But I have no experience with deca. I've heard a lot of different opinions on the best ratio Of these two, but unsure of where to start any advice on picking a ratio What should I look for while running this cycle? Thanks If you were more experienced, I would suggest actually I would go a higher Deca to test so I'd go form to test six and a Deca With you being in experience with deca It's probably gonna be more sensible to flip that and do as six to four test deca Or possibly even slightly higher on the test Obviously that sort of dosage in a test you're gonna have to be on top of your research management But I like Medium low test high deca cycles and I find them very effective. They're not for everyone And you know some people just don't go on with deca retole The weird thing with deca is I find that when you start to pump the dosage Those don't go on with it actually seem to get on with it better You've some which it's a weird thing and sometimes you know you're still not saying no I'm on I'm on for a bigger Deca and I'm really and I just up it and they're like my I feel about loads better But I think because of a lack of experience from a point of view of managing a drug like Deca And obviously you have to be on point with stuff like product in etc That is probably going a more traditional route of high test over the Deca Okay Yeah, I probably your arms are looking a little extra pumped today. What are you after you creepy bastard? Oh yeah Scott you're right you're looking a little extra property Pow For a better that's eat strings yeah Yeah, they're they're nothing to really brag about but I have been training more consistently They've the last this year I've been able to get consistent again with it Thanks in part to my mitochondrial stack so I feel good but Far cry from what I used to be dude. I'm just happy to be listen I know we joke about my age. I'm at a 50 in a couple of years all right Thanks I feel all right like as long as my goal is I can like keep exercising and doing what I love In the gym I'm good with that man, you know, so I'm just going to keep trying to stay fit I'm just going to slowly get moldy crepate now we got to get you you're not doing your cardio while you're there are you It's been very nice weather have you been walking? It's been very nice weather I'll tell you what man on that cycle if he's never used Deca How what's his experience like with test? I oftentimes and I'm more of a test guy and if he could handle like 750 test I wonder about 750 test in 300 Deca How's that varies gram you can't do math? 58 milligrams Dave if we remove the extra weight In right to use you scope if we remove the extra weight it's only You know what I'm saying man it's ballpark somewhere in there 700 tests 300 Deca I try something like that, you know, because I really feel like and I really did come up in the school of Forgotten the hand handle test that Run your test as your foundation and then from there Modulate with the anabolic The heat the up thing is you know is the gram set in stone can't we do Something of a bit of an escalating cycle where we start You know maybe start 300 and just see how you feel and react and then You know you find you know getting quite what you want you cannot the test or If everything is fine you might bring both up together There's always that option as well that it's been the first time of introducing a new cycle I mean you know is there a reason why you set on the ground I use that on the ground. You might not be it might just be a you know I saw a total of doses he's used in the past yeah, that's true All right, let's see what else we have here um Okay We're gonna say something yeah, and now we shouldn't really jump into comments about methylene blue Do not tell methylene blue with cable whatever you had them they'll do Why in why is that? Because you can get a massive over dopamine stimulation and it can really call some problems Did somebody say they were gonna do that? They said we're gonna do what we were talking about the acronym then they mentioned methylene blue So just because they mentioned methylene blue and we were talking about decrypid was immed Okay, yeah, I think you know what um I'm not the person to explain this. I'm not a scientist. I believe it or not surprise I But I had been learning from a guy who was talking about how it can be beneficial for improving Oxygen and I found that to be but methylene blue to be beneficial for that I'll use it as low as five milligrams Maybe ten milligrams and but I use it intermittently on days that I really could use it I found for me Running it daily is not the jam. That's not the thing I want to do but running it infrequently Let's say that I'm gonna have a hard workout coming up and Or let's say then we haven't just might my breathing isn't as good that day Which is an issue that I deal with with the mitochondrial dysfunction stuff I could benefit from a small amount Just infrequently and that's what I've relegated it to it's not a daily thing from I'm no experience with it But I do know that it has a strong action within dopamine receptors Which is one of the reasons why it has the effects it has And if you combine that we cave as well you can really overload the system I could see that you also have to be careful if you're using an SSR You can get serotonin syndrome with it. Yes, you can as well. Yes, but if you use it infrequently too Regardless of what you're doing. I think you're it and at you know the lowest doses that you can I mean because I started it five milligrams. I've seen people using five times 10 times that amount, you know So in five to ten milligrams I think you the last you take of anything Well, a side effects you're going to get from it obviously less effect effect you're gonna get from it too But I'd ask myself what am I looking to get from it first? You know what I mean? Yeah, that's the thing to make it to me. It's a pretty cool This isn't a gigatmark at all, but I think there's people that jump onto things because they hear it as the light is both And I think it's important to go just to simple question of do I need it is what it does Gonna be beneficial to me You know, or am I just jumping on it because it's the light is both thing that everybody's on about Yeah, so what it does with your breathing is it will kind of rewire your aspiration Which you're about if it's healthy it's already wired to breathe just fine So the point of this researcher that I was learning from is that if if you are already wired properly You know because a lot of times there are people who are saying oh I can get better oxygenation Well, I'm training so I want to use a methylene blue if you're already wired properly Then messing with that on a regular basis might not be the best idea You don't know better than your body does you know so you have to respect that too All right, I just found David yourself. I've been running. Oh wait. Oh, yeah I've been running a moderate test 300 milligrams a week looking to take it to the next step So should I increase the test or add master on or add growth? I love you knowing I've been annoying annoying my wife with the constant background of Dave's subdued tones LOL love it Dave subdued tones I think it's you have a very you know radio friendly voice I Do I So my first question would be at what period of time have we run 300? Yeah Because if we've run 300 for the last three months then then I know it's not a huge dose, but I would still be looking to probably drop down to a correct trt for a period of time before pushing back up to I did a second compound if we've only been running it for four six weeks Then they yes the risk of to have a second compound or in just increase the dose either way But yeah, the only thing the only question I have about is what should current exposures been do you need actually take a break Before you push into more compounds or greater doses Good point Let's say he were to take a break and come back fresh and do it all again I personally and and I don't know what his goals are but I don't care if he's using test in mass I do 300 tests 300 mast or even 300 tests 200 master 250 and 250 I think that would be a great jump upward for either cutting or for bulky, you know From where he is I totally agree. I think for anyway between the sort of 450 six hundred is is viable as an increase Under one to one would would would completely adequate Yeah All right How about this one says 400 milligrams of test a week 300 EQ a week 16 weeks And a draw kick start at 50 milligrams a day for four weeks 200 milligrams of NPP a week administered every other Other week I think for eight to ten weeks just running what I have left Should I make any adjustments what are your thoughts on this cycle? Yes, you say every other week every other week on that NPP Just gave blood not long ago and had heart high RBC from the NPP last cycle What subs should I run if any oh I do have a Robinson on hand just in case Thanks muscle daddy Dave The only bit so the MPP rather than do it week on week off. I would bunch it together Say at the back end Not a big fan of of oral kick starts, but it's not the end of the world at four weeks The only other thing is obviously keeping an eye on on hemo You've got epoxy at a start point which is is gonna drive him a globing up quick and then you're getting by the time that's finishing You're gonna be dropping into the EQ being quite effective as well, so right I think we have to keep an eye on FBC and just see where Emo and Redblossol's are Fumbo vax Yeah, yeah, I'm just talking about that You from the max as native canase in it and then the other product is IP six Yep, I run the two I run a few grams IP six a day You got to be a little bit careful with IP six he can send you the opposite way as well if you're overdo it so Just be aware that Overcooking the native and the IP can actually send you an e-mail I also so this has two thousand FU Nato in it and then it also has Sarah peptase Which Sarah peptase does something very similar to nato kinases? It's really good for avoiding clots which is something we need to be careful with when you do get thick blood So I used to run Sarah peptase on its own as well as nato But now since I'm running this I read I stopped taking the other Sarah peptase. I do however run an additional cap of nato kinase So I'm getting 4,000 FU this plus another 2,000 That's strong by the way guys our our advertiser in fact. They got a couple stickers from strong sitting on my desk still Get that one Dave and You for it Suck it England I should put that right here and then like And I'm running some of our viewers now, let's go. I'm just intended to offend you That other viewers are okay. I like I like all of them All right What about that NPP at 200 milligrams every other week? Yeah, I go if he said he was using it what you had left which is fun. I get it you know economics of cycles Why by gear if you've got stuff you can use up and you can make something viable with it But I would just rather than run it for a longer period every of a week I'd bunch it open to a short period but every week How about that? I just just seems a lot of messing around doing every of a week and and I don't see any real advantage to it How about this Dave we pull out the antitral kick start and instead Increase that NPP dose for the first four to six weeks and then as he gets to the tail end of the cycle say week 10 It's a lab work done and he sees where his hemoglobin is and if he's in a relatively decent place Then he adds in the antitral at the end and if the option use the MPP to drive until the EQ really kicks Yeah I know I like that yeah MPP That and the option of the oxy to finish yeah, no, I think that's about a move You might be on the answer this question because you know Krullinger Is Cuba from nuts? Same as me no he's from rubber What's nuts? Nothing home. I thought that way to been what he meant. I would assume nothing him But no he's he cuba lives in rubber Well, I was good as a robber to me fair But obviously he's Polish by descent Yeah, I I bought an old bike from the sixties in my garage bicycle. It's by the brand called Robin Hood and it was made in nodding him Why did you buy an old bike? I bought it 20 years ago because I needed a bike. I needed like a little surprise You didn't buy it because it wasn't old bike. You just bought a bike that happened to be an old bike Yeah, it was cool. You know, it was like a cool old bike And you know, it's got the big the handlebars that come up and you have this secret bike fetting you were collecting old push bikes on the quiet and I don't know anything Yeah, no just that one but I kept it me because it is cool It's not worse like anything It probably especially the condition it's and it's kind of you know It's really so big so valuable. I looked it up. It was worth like fifty or a hundred dollars So it's more than I paid for it, but finding the bottom I guess would be the thing right 20 years of usage and a profit Well, can you say you got go wrong with that? Yeah, I think I bought it for five bucks too. I wish I had a cow would do that for once right All right, I have trend based Given that I was given by a buddy and it's water based I've been scared. Oh, yeah, this question. I've been scared to take it in case of infection So Davis saying first time use there's no risk of infection right I might consider taking it once and then throwing it into the trash. I love the way People hear what they want to hear in a podcast. I don't think you ever said that did you no No, I said the risk of the fact is that the water bone won't sustain multiple needles That doesn't mean it's sterile in the first place Right however Three-key Yeah To get oral Yeah, I guess you could it's trend based but it's not it's not mathal trend. It's just trend based Yeah, just take it all Okay Huh You see you don't see it under the tone 45 minutes before you work out. Let it go through that blood vessel job who Love the podcast. I'm curious of super draw is basically 17 a a mast if if super draw is basically 17 a a mast around Why is the effect at such a low dose? Once it passes through the liver is it the same as mast around no aster No, um now clevers got with that on the pharmacology of this but Alculating compounds and methylating compounds really does have a significant impact in how they effect it when they enter the body So if you were looking for an easy way to describe super draw then yes the the closest thing you're gonna get is an oral mast drawn That's as close as you can describe it but The reality of that is that when you take these compound the effect within the body can be significantly different to Master on in the same way as something like a methylated trend is significantly different to trend and how You know certain of a compounds that go through various processes to to make them By available in different ways also impacts How I mean you could argue debolves effectively testosterone But it has a significantly different impact Particularly with the ishogen conversion and the type of ishogen conversion it converts so So when you look at base compounds Altarization of carbons and methylation and other things that are done to them to change how they operate Can have real significant impact on their effect within the body All right say clever Scott will be able to give you the proper science of what that carbon out and those there and what that those there and white changes it so much I'm too stupid to do that. I think we did do that breakdown one time and muscle minds I mean if it was just you know like What did he call it master on noester then Imagine what deep debol would be EQ right noester because deep debol is not isn't in my correct in this day It's basically the 17-oculated version of aqua poison You know I don't actually know yeah So I will I will bow to you and that one so All right Anybody correct me if I'm wrong on that you know at the end of the day I'm sure I'm y'all yeah, I'm not a scientist guys. I just have Two decades of experience with this stuff in real world after Yeah, was it Dave Palombo No so last week we were talking about Boston Lloyd and I said I can't think of the guy's name as guy who coached him with coached a lot of younger guys We had a bunch of people who commented it was John or Rork who Who had coached him he'd coached a bunch of young guys early in the day like early in their days and he got them using a lot of gear like Boston He also who do coach a big country what's his name? What's his name now coming to you, but I can remember his nickname and I'm picturing his face the biggest dude Yeah, a lot of a lot of gear a lot of orals That guy No, come back to that one kind of more of an uncle days advice question question for the next episode is there? Let's see we did that one Is there anywhere that I can look at C Dave when he looked his biggest yeah go to watch under construction the film part one And there's a few pigs online as a few pigs on my social media. I ain't never Was never very good at doing the social thing when I was I'm a bigist Yeah, yeah, it wasn't the fact that people weren't doing that I mean, but you did have a lot of smart Yeah, but I was just never really good at I could have been a lot of matter But there's this pig's low in about you're just search Dave date searches name There's a lot of outpapers as well, so please All right, so I wanted to make sure we got through a few patriotic questions Hey guys, I'm five weeks out from a show and I introduced trend ace a couple weeks ago Guy no has randomly entered the chat my E2 is 59 on the Australian scale Which is low normal my pro lacticin is low, but my progesterone is elevated should I decrease the trend dosage and lose the Epic look that I have in hopes of lowering progesterone or is there an insillary? I can take to mitigate the guino trend a started at 140 milligrams and is now at 350 milligrams Also running test pro bit 350 milligrams and master on it 700 milligrams The issue developed when trend ace was brought in aside from the guino developing the look is epic Thanks for being a staple part of my daily life team I'm confused What you confused about But chest strong wouldn't only have an action to to promote guino in fact But gestions even been suggested by the likes and done to shame has a way of managing guino Because he's simply pro lacticin And it is pro lacticin is low Yeah, now the other thing I'm curious about is did he do a sense of estrogen test Hmm because if he didn't then his issue shouldn't should be through the roof because the trend will be showing his issues And if he did then fair enough it's probably inaccurate reading So that would be the other question is there's some it just I don't know for me there's some it just at all Because if each of you is truly low And pro lacticin is low There the two mechanisms by which guino is formed because we're going to lower in a DHT from trend which lowers natural protection against guino We get pro lacticin drive in and increase in ER sensitivity and number of ER receptors at breast tissue and then we get each region hitting it With more effect because it's over sensitized from the trend and there's more receptors there and there's low DHT Not progress I mean I got a solution how about this so he's got five weeks He just posted this two two days ago My first point would be yes, I would here's the beauty of trend acetate And this is the reason why I use it in all my contest prep guys if we're going to use trend We can pull that trend out and you will get a dramatic reduction in those symptoms and side effects really Quickly so you've got plenty of time, you know, and I would argue that the look that you have Is not based on that trend alone you are not going to lose that look I might consider Let's consider when stroll is coming in as a bit of an alternate that's what that's where I was going it But I'm not going to just say alternative I'm going to say this it five weeks So I'd get that wind sterling now like yesterday and I'd pull that trend out and then I would give it a good Eight ten days of no symptoms no side effects whatsoever and then I would add that trend back in at a lower dose I've had incredible success with guys that were in good shape using low doses of trend and I'm talking low competitor Dersu's I'm not talking about the what tier T plus guys are using online and what you hear people saying on YouTube I'm talking in 152 hundred milligrams per week, you know, so yeah I would say you can get a nice effect from as let list 50 milligrams and try to isolate times away Yeah, yeah, I go there man You're still going to get everything out of it plus Adding that wind sterling is you know, you're not on an oral. Yes, so you're going to be able to take this look even a little bit further a little bit harder dryer Entitling so I don't I think you'll actually look a better Than trying to deal with this gyno and fighting that all the way in you know Yeah Yeah, sometimes I guess you know what sometimes Real world experience I don't necessarily have the answers as no What but I can find a solution. Yeah, I mean like I'm in the I'm in the line of finding solutions I am just I'm He's okay Yeah, I might have a better days too Hey, Scott can you a Dave touch base and becoming a successful competitor client taking good pictures What makes a good client and and vetting a coach? Thanks From what makes a good client I would say honestly Yeah You need to be honest Does no point telling your coach you stopped to the plan if you haven't done because your coach is gonna judge their Adactions and changes based on how you've changed so they think you've run 2000 calories for the week and you've actually run free Then they're gonna be making on necessary changes because you're just not sticking to the plan Yeah, so I think honesty and and up front with a with a coach is important from a from what makes a good client Deerance To an extent I think the other thing is you also need to be realistic as a client in What you want to achieve and what the cost of that achievements gonna be I If I want to stand on stage and be competitive That's gonna take a lot of work and a lot of dedication if I just want to look after decent for a holiday And things can be a bit Looser and potentially a bit more flexible so you you know you've got to be realistic If you want to achieve extreme results is gonna require extreme work and I think a lot of sometimes Clients going with coaches thinking that the coach is gonna provide them a magic formula that means they don't have to work Hard or a drug formula that means they don't have to work hard and to be fair anything after Isn't he's gonna require effort? That's true from what makes a good coach I Think it's not always about a coach being good sometimes is just about a coach that fits you Now that might be In the way they do things so arguments like some clients like coaches that have spreadsheets and You know lots of data Tracking Other clients you're not gonna get me to fill a data form in a million years and then rather just have a What's up message or a voice note just saying this is I'm a week's being what do I need to do? Yeah, so I think it is also finding the coach to suit how you work as well And I coach that You agree within in their basic standpoint some principles we all have our own way of doing things And it's not that anyway is right and another way is wrong. Yeah, there are some things that are just fucking stupid But for most parts any decent coach that's got a good client base and getting decent results He's doing things that are successful but it might be different to our novel Yeah, like for me. I'm I'm very training focused very training focused and and I I'd like Kinds a lot of effort in for that side of things Overcouches aren't so you know some coaches give you a very basic Training plant you know just go do that fucking up. You know how to train and I'll do the diet and the drugs out of things So it's it's finding someone that you gel with and communicate with Is another factor and but yeah as well, you know can you afford the coach can you afford the coach long term? I mean there's no point going to coach the charges 250 pound a month if you're only gonna be able to afford it for two months and then that's a job Yeah, that's a good point too I mean he's probably gonna take a coach for the six weeks to start to really learn What you're doing how you react it may be even longer you know, particularly if you're not very good at it here and so Yeah, the coach needs to give you a set of tasks see how you complete those tasks and see how your body reacts So they can learn and there's no it's all right you come into a coach and say oh well I'm me Susan sent some this I'm that I'm the other And times that I tend with the grace respect for everybody involved You're wrong Because you've not looked at it from an objective point of view you've looked at it from a point of view where you've been in the middle of it and you've made certain assumptions So Yeah, you know a coaching commitment is gonna take some time But communication is very very important and if you don't feel you can communicate with a coach Or you don't like the way they I mean I remember J.P. was was super super straight on check-ins And you couldn't get communication outside of your checking window Yeah, that's me was when I first started coaching I just you you you're checking it on this day and that's what you got you know Yeah, if you have more question if there was an emergency it's different but that's the way it used to be this is this was 2012 And that's what I had been coached so that's the reason I did that Yeah, and if you had questions then you could put those questions in your email that said I don't want people just randomly like things that are unimportant because of Imagine you have let's just say you have 50 clients and if every client has just like hey I was just thinking what do you think about this every day? Then you've got you hours of work, you know, so there there is a line but I yeah Yeah, I remember it relax with my clients, but that's because I need them I need them to be a bit relaxed with me at times as well Because I've got multiple things going on so I can't always be Bang yeah, you know, so it's a two-way bridge you know I will tolerate you checking in late As long as it's not all the bloody time But at the same time you need to tolerate if I'm maybe a little bit late and reply in one week because I've busy with it Sort of doing that or whatever it may be so yeah, and I think that's the thing is you need to establish what you want from the coach But also what the coach wants from you and see if that's a workable agreement between the two of you yeah Just add a couple things number one be coachable if you know it'd be a good client You have to be in a position where you're coachable if you think that you've got everything figured out and It depends on the then the relationship for me, you know, depends on the person if I'm working with somebody who's already very experienced then it would be foolish of me to not rely on their experience and lean The conversation isn't it but talk to them about you know What works best for them that said also at the same time you have to even that person who is experience they have to be willing to maybe try things differently at the end of the day, you know if if you're driving what you would do even It was working and it would be talking to the coach because it was already work it so yeah, you do Yeah, I mean you get people that will come to you and you sit right there. Well, I've always done it this way Yeah, but you've not got where you want to be so obviously that way isn't working Yeah, there's an idea of that if I'm driving you have to also be willing to let me drive because I'm trying to like follow your directions I I can't be my best as a coach definitely coachable is important and I work with people that aren't and we've talked about it and you know Sometimes that's just the way things are and then sometimes there are people that start out as a good fit and then they they are no longer a good fit later You know, these things evolve Good check in pictures. I would say that your coach should tell you what he wants or she wants and that's gonna be individual, you know So it comes down to what that coaches expectations are I could tell you what I want But that's probably gonna be different than what what Dave wants Scott us for news regular Good All right We did have something else let me just scan really quick here in the stream because I think we did have a couple things here See if we can knock one of these out and then we had an uncle Dave's advice Says gentlemen. I am not a patreon customer. Well, that's okay. I mean we appreciate everybody I appreciate everybody who does take part in patreon You guys are definitely a big part of what floats the show that said we're here to help everybody What's this word Catch Kaxaxia Kaxia I don't even know what that is I don't know what you trying to say yeah, I'm gonna look it up here CAC H E X I A C AC I Was the sentence I don't know how A condition in a more per cent Body weight during loss of muscle Including loss of muscle and fat in a person who is not trying to lose weight It's a muscle wasting disease okay. Let's see he just he just outlined that for us All right, we'll get back up to his question here Okay Where is it now? Sorry he commented again and that made me lose my spot Oh here it is only 20 milligrams Anitrol 5 milligrams meant per day plus TRT 90 milligrams a week in a hundred milligrams Deca is enough to not lose weight can the average human keep that up long term Have you tried a less a combination? I wonder too um So I would Leave none of that on the surface of it to be honest strikes me has been particularly problematic Yeah But I was just wondering have you tried a less aversion like have you tried just a test and Deca? Because I mean he's one of the things Deca was developed for was muscle wastage Yeah Billy leave me alone. I'm hot and I'm comfortable in my frowness You know I can speak to a friend of mine will who has muscular dystrophy which is a muscle wasting his Type of muscular dystrophy is called fascio scapula humoral which affects those areas and Eventually everything basically up top will continue to degrade It's interesting because since I learned about his particular type of muscular dystrophy I can spot people that have it because you can see the way that the muscle degradates It's sad because eventually what will happen is that Somebody who has that type of muscular dystrophy will suffocate Because they have they don't have the ability to Basically keep their throat from collapsing in on it's enough He's used the through research studies. They found that believe it or not L buterol Because enough clenbuterol right or brother of clenbuterol It does have Anticheda ballic effects So he's used that long term for its benefit. I wonder and what I'm trying to do here I'm thinking outside of the body building side outside of the AAS side of things because he's on You know I mean we want to keep the guy healthy in a life Can we do that without taking anodrol is my question? You know what I mean? foremost it's current protocol isn't scary me but How about the next decade or 20 years? Exactly you know you would you would I think he's definitely worth looking at alternative compounds that may support I just I'm not aware of any of the top of my head Obviously I'll do troubles definitely something I've got more I've got more then I would also look at growth hormone You know growth hormone is something that in a low dose you could run long term I remember my tell Williams was I believe he was talking about growth at one point my tell had MAS or has MS and He got really jacked at one point once he found out and I think part of it was like he's trying to get everything as strong as he could So I look at like everything outside of AAS first But then also to a fuzon T or T that's great Does he need more than T or T and if so how much more can he run a higher N T or T? I don't know how would how would T or T work in conjunction with Anything else that was anti-cantabolic like albuterol or alodos aclentbuterol We're not talking about running clinic 200 micrograms. I'm talking 25 or 40 you know And long term that's not going to have the same Heart implications is that we talk about in bodybuilding where guys are running 200 you know nothing to 200 Like yeah, you're going to have a lot of heart stress but if you're running 40 every day Your heart rate will get back to normal basically, you know the same with albuterol It's a medication that's used long term so just just thinking outside of the box What if you were to go from several different angles outside of the anabolic world So that you don't have to put as much stress on with antibiotics. I don't know Yeah, I would definitely definitely look at a broad spectrum approach rather than focusing on just on a boy What if I'm forced to be on my knowledge so I got really out on that? Yes, it says that caused causes weight loss and increased morbidity The major cause is cytokine access other mediators include testosterone and insulin like growth factor deficiency Access myostatin Hmm So That would suggest that GH might be a potentially beneficial route. Yeah, yeah I'd just look into it more do research. I bet you that there's research studies on growth hormone with it, you know Simple Google search in fact what if I just put that in and And then I got a Yeah, look it up. I'm seeing some stuff come back right away Okay, so Josh asks us for uncle deus advice Ozies impact and culture as he has born that is the overlap of fringe groups like metal bodybuilding Leaving a legacy kind of stuff I don't really know a huge amount about Aussie. I mean everybody's a devozios born he's an iconic character Just in modern culture yeah and I Wouldn't say that metal Has been fringe for a very long time was was Aussie And Was Aussie a leading factor in making metal mainstream potentially but then I also think bands like I made and played a role in that as well and you know some of the other Sort of heavy metal stroke rock bands and I'm amazed the lasted as long as he did consider that we lived his life because he definitely lived Yeah, you know, he's had several relapses even in his later years He's had several drug and alcohol relapses even in his his 60s and he definitely lived a life Um He's definitely somebody I would like to have met I think he probably had quite a genuine view on life yeah For a man and I think from what I know a little bit was his farewell concept was In his head his wake he did that deliberately because he knew he wasn't long for this world and he what that's how he wanted to go out Yeah, so Ultimately respect for a guy that's lived his life how he wanted to live it took the blows that came with that And actually controlled his way out as well as much as he could I mean yeah, you know I've got respect for people that live how they want to live Accept the consequences of that whereas a you know a lot of people will live out of one living in their own Constantly that life's been cruel to them well, no, you know, you know, he you know He never denied what he did or in any way excuse the effects of that Yeah He wasn't iconic frontman But I don't know enough about the industry of heavy metal and rock music to to be able to to say how Influencio he was in that world it was obviously significant and massively Yeah, he was breathable. I just it's not my genre so I finally developed it to be able to really say much more than that I mean I think no doubt at some point some sort of book will Yeah, cocaine alcohol was towards what anabolic was to me yeah potentially I'm sure this story's and I know Sharon's alluded to a few things in interviews It's just absolutely mind blowing the stuff that used to get out to oh Yeah, but I think she deserves a saint or put it up with him Yeah, yeah, that's true, too, man. He's a character. That's for sure. I'll tell you what you know He lived a life right and I think that there are people out there who I remember talking to this one guy. He was like, I don't want to like do anything that I like He's like when I he's like I want to keep it in the package You know keep it like he's talking about his body He's like I want to keep it in the package, you know keep it so that it doesn't get like beat up and used and you know Keep it good but then if you keep it in the package and you don't really get to play with it You know what I mean you don't get to do stuff you don't get to take it out the world and like live life I mean I I gotta tell you Dave I lived so I'm gonna be honest with you man. I lived some hard hard years, you know and I I'm not living hard anymore Will it have affected me? Absolutely, you know could that be related to why I got sick? I don't know It could be it could just be luck of the draw could be a lot of different things But it is what it is and all I have is where I'm at today I'm gonna do the best I can with that and when it ends it ends and you know what man I did a lot of fun stuff along the way, you know I would rather have done that than not take it out of the package, you know Yeah, there's a balance obviously, you know you don't want to have a Full lifestyle Cool thing we gotta find that Dave we can't say that word all right You don't want to have a come a cozy lifestyle Yeah, yeah, that's a good way of putting it yeah But at the same time the most interesting people I've met are the ones that have lived life Yeah, yeah, you know life is for experiencing does that mean you have to do things that Health adverse even risky no But it also means you can't wrap yourself up in cotton wool and bubble wrap and then expect to have any You know we develop as humans through stress trial and tribulation and experience and and living We don't live for a computer screen we don't live through Technology and information we live through experience and that's I think so many people miss experience now because They exist in such an easily virtual world. I'm not on about Virtual reality but in the sense that We get exposure to beautiful parts of the world and fantastic scenery without ever having to actually visit it Yeah, and I mean I've seen pictures amount Fuji like most people have online and whatever for years But nothing beat actually standing in each shadow a look in I You know that's an experience I'll take for the rest of my life I thought you got to do that man. I'm glad to get to do your trip right now. You're in France like that's pretty cool I'm so incredible no amount of of you know Web surfing was gonna replace actually being there and looking at it yeah Then it's I mean I went to Stone Engine I was lucky enough to actually get inside the circle And again you read about these places and you read the history about them and you read about you know the theories about what they were and everything else But it's not until you actually go and Touch an experience in the There's something about that place that is We got not a bad way just it's kind of atmosphere that I can't describe So yeah, you know I think Aussie pushed it Two extremes and there's no doubt it did damage and there's no doubt it affected his life I have no idea to be ever regretted anything. I don't think he did from what little bits I do know Yeah, but he definitely lifts a life and I do believe life is for living You've just got to try and calculate the risk a little bit and see if you're willing to pay the price Yeah, I'm with you 100% of that man 100% good balance in it Don't don't don't leave this world Wishing you hair don't something just you experience things I mean That this is some of nothing but we were up at the other campsite and there was an all mighty electrical storm Okay, and I rolled around about the slate and I actually got I wish I've got open gone and sat outside and actually watched it to be honest because I feel like I missed something there That I could have actually really enjoyed Yeah, you know and it's silly little things like that that You miss out on the rich fabric of what life can be I need to really take any effort but we just yeah Mom looks to it you know not every experience is gonna be good not every experience is gonna be enjoyable But I guarantee you'll have more good than bad if you've just embraced it and give it a go Yeah, all right guys, but we appreciate to tune it in and definitely go to Evail button else is that kind of get your lives done by Dave and the UK did were you accepting coaching clients right now? I am yes, I'm gonna I'm gonna Let you know some things next week Okay, some changes with the email some stuff Oh, okay But yes, I've got a Pad Coast start and begin to September there is a couple of slots left on that And I am taking on new clients. Yes All right, and of course, or we have advertisers that we don't mention on YouTube you can hear about them on the audio podcast or You know head over to Instagram something like that in Obris Hit me up, man if you want to talk anymore. I have a couple other just general thoughts That may or may not help things you may or may not have thought of before but I'd be happy to explore that a little bit further with you In your condition Like I said it's something I thought a lot about with my friend Will who has muscular dystrophy maybe some of that stuff could apply But I I'm glad to hear that you he's had he has been researching he's been sick for 14 years So more power to him to keep learning about this stuff and and figuring things out and at least he's found something that's benefiting him Short-term hopefully he can come to some even better conclusions and find other things that You know can can continue keeping him here and happy and living the life that he wants to live for a long long time Of course go to true nutrition calm use our code think over there for great deals and basically wholesale pricing and Supplements Including like all your protein powder creatin interwork out stuff all of that Use our code think to get 10% off on every order and it directly supports the podcast Supplement source.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week In strong sports nutrition you can go to strum in the US now. I'll have linked to the both of those below by the way Tanya Miller is with us of course and she says She'll be at the oh with strum this year so it looks like strum is showing up So if you go to the Olympia be sure to head over there and say hi to the team I don't think I'm going to be invited by mutant this year. They haven't mentioned anything So I probably unfortunately won't be able to make it this year but also too Anybody else ever getting patreon we had some patreon questions leave us more of those Hit Davey are Dave or I up for coaching and yeah for another episode of podcast we'll see you soon thanks Dave

Each time I put those carbs in, it went in at about that 3 to 1 ratio, 500 grams, gave me about 2,000 grams of weight, which is about six or seven pounds. When I did the other, the carbup was like 12 or 1500, it did the same thing. I went from 196 to like 208, and I was doing a six to the next morning. I mean like that. It all like, it mathematically worked out actually really well. And there was no water retention at all. What's up guys? Welcome back to Muslimines with Dr. Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McNeilly, and all of our programming is brought to you by TruNutrition.com. What's going on man? We've had a couple of weeks off here. I don't believe we call it Team Universe anymore. We call it The Universe. It's not a team universe. You were at the Universe. The Universe. It was always a team. It's funny years ago, how long ago was this? My buddy, we just mentioned my gussison, was doing the Naba Universe, which was like two weeks before the universe or the TNPC Universe. He was a WF-F-Naba Pro. And that's like the whole intermingling industry of all those group. But Naba is like the original like that's where you know, Arnold Franklin, those guys had their starts. I don't know where it stands down in the UK, but Naba has been around forever. I'll tell you what it stands. So I talked to some of the guys about the Maris bodybuilding association. Yeah, yeah. So they're known as being like a very old school organization still. And I think they're a little bit behind the times because like that is at the PCA. I think that they're kind of on the cutting edge of everything. I think that Naba does, if I'm not mistaken, I think they do and like a straight through show that they don't have burning in night's show. So they're, yeah. Yeah. Well, I remember, yeah, you're totally right all that's dead on. So like, not, I think there's a split too. Kind of like, there is in the IFBV as well. This is like, when I last time I looked to it, just because the personality is just strong and they just can't get along. Right. It would be too much for bad humans to get along and like, you know, work towards the common cause. But so Naba was like, it's something like Pennsylvania, like the Northeast New England area. There's also WFFF. So Naba or one sect of Naba has joined with WF and they're like an international. So they have a world championships and the universe and they feel like he went to the Praitoria South Africa where Arnold did the Olympia. I'll be damned. And competed there, you know, and my buddy Mike, so he'll probably watch this or at least listen to it. So anyway, it was funny because I was too weak out and he came to stay with me for a week because it was in Orlando. Yeah. Interesting weekend because there was like four body gliding shows in Orlando. It's a long before COVID of course. Yeah. That's very time. Like there was that happen. And then there was like another or a national organization. And there was like I think two NPC shows. Okay. All in one relatively small city kind of cool. But I went in and they people, it was hot. It was summer time and they're like, what class you and I'm like, I'm not competing. And it was all about Mike. I was there to help Mike, you know. And they kept on like forcing me to like, like, come on, you should just jump in. Yeah. And they actually heighted me. That's the first time I create my height was on 58 which. Okay. Which is good to know I actually had that done again. Oh, I haven't talked about that. I had an interesting experience from the universe this year. But anyway, that year they wanted it literally. They heighted me, they weighed me. Like this is where you'd be. They have like a different levels of muscularity division. So at your height, they have like, Ward different categories. You could go into divisions classes. I mean, know what term they use. But so kind of like we have basically, men's the board shorts, classic bodybuilding and then open essentially. Yeah. The physique, classic and then open. They had like four categories. I came with what they called them. And I was in like the heaviest one. And they're like, well, you could win. I actually thought about doing it because I could have like gotten a pro card in knob but that would be FF. Everyone was saying that I could. And I'm like, well, if I do that. And then I, they're probably not going to be go to the universe. Oh, yeah. Because the year before I got in second at the universe, I was one place away from a pro card. So I was thinking, you know, maybe who knows. Didn't happen. A trade to that basket. Yeah, but I'm like, so it would have been funny. I like I could have been like, had it all worked out. You know, I could have been Mr. Universe and then Mr. Universe. Samaltini's in two different organizations. And no one would have known because it would have been on the Danlo. So anyway, so many different things there. But I did the, I wanted to talk about just because some people know this. But when I, you know, somebody I just compete because I, this is my thing. And then I want to take that information and then distill it and bring it back to people. Yeah. I've got some stuff to talk about other than this like one thing that kind of people were blabber gas at about when I talked to them about it was that I do my own color. Oh, yeah. I figured that out last year. And I did that for the master's national. It did that for the team universe this year. So easy. It's funny. So easy. You know, here's the thing Scott is that I did my own color. I was resistant to using spray tan until 2017, the last season I competed. And then I just spray tan every time and I'll tell you what, man, to me, I would say the exact same words. So easy because I didn't have to, I didn't have to do it myself. I didn't have to think about it. I just went in. Right. My sock or didn't have my sock depending on what day it was. And got sprayed, turned sprayed and then I went home. It was even I didn't have to think about it. And to me, I think that there's a new generation. I don't think that they even know what you're about to talk about this, this putting it on yourself. Like that's that's I know that's it. That's that's why I'm talking about it. Yeah, well, here's the thing, if you were staying in the host hotel, yeah, that's you know, $200 a night host hotel or the one with right? Or yeah, just crazy. And you just have to walk down. Yep. And it's a smaller show. The time is reasonable. It makes sense. I think it was, they all get kind of learned together. But it may have been last year when I did, it was, it might have been the team universe. And I had an appointment set up with the host tanning, the official tanning group. And they sent me my time late afterwards. And I was staying in an Airbnb to save a little money. And it's like, oh, 330. And whoa, yeah. Yeah. And I'm like, oh, God. So I ended up going with a, I just can't, literally, I just canceled that and went with a, I mean, I just, I took the money and I just swallowed it, you know, because I just didn't want, because I was going to have to drive, get up and get up, like, 245 in the morning. That could affect your money way. Yeah. It was just, yeah, it's just awful, it's a terrible thing. There's so many things that happen. I don't want to make this a bitch session. Like, at the big shows where they have you, for instance, the Mashers National Institute, they had a standing for, I didn't time it, it seemed like, like, eons. But at least 45 minutes, just standing and because of, I guess because of COVID, there's no, no bands allow. So there's nothing to pump up with. What's looped you from the pump up area to a line and then they lined up the three groups. And there was, you know, 20 guides in a, in a weight class. No bands. And the, yeah. So nothing, like, not even flip flops. They just didn't want any mess back there, I guess. Okay. Which, normally, so there is no, no pumping and you're just standing there, literally, you know, which affects everyone equally. So it's not like, you know, but it doesn't make for the best on stage appearance, I don't think. Sure. But back to the taning. So if you're, if, yeah, you're right, you just, you don't have to do anything if you think about it. It is true and I will say this. Sometimes you get someone like, okay, she's obviously, usually it's a woman with the man, not always, but most of the taning that I've seen and done is mainly women doing this break taning. Everyone's come all the guy. Because women can spray guys and women, but guys can't spray women. Yeah. So you're, yeah. You're kind of, that's not gonna work. But sometimes they know what they're doing. Yeah. Because they know how important it can be. And then every once in a while, I'll run into someone and they have a rough job. So don't get me wrong. Like they're dealing with all these crabby bodybuilders, you know, who are like spaced out and he taught it and dehydrated and, you know, they say, okay, turn this way and they turn their wrong way and lift your arm and they lift their leg and they're all kind of fucked up. Right, right. Yeah, I mean, I can't imagine how unfund it can be if you don't take it with the right attitude. But you don't always get the best service. You don't, it's kind of a crap shoot. So rather than having to drive over and take the extra time, I just, I just, I think it was one of the shows here in Florida that was driving distance from my house with the first time I did the last year. Liquid sun rays sticks on my skin like none other. I don't know what it is about the pH of my skin, the chemistry of my skin. Maybe they should have a phenomenal product. Yeah. I think the products are evolving over time, but oh yeah. Literally, I think it cost me like, I was, I've got a big jug of it now, but I used, I think, two little mits you can get them on Amazon. I think I'm maybe ordered one with the new bottle. Even using old bottle the second time. It was the year old just to see, I just wanted to see if it would go bad then go bad. Yeah. Like $9. Yeah. The tan myself as opposed to $200 or 150. I found with Liquid sun rays, I like using a roller better. Yeah. Found that for me, I could get it more evenly. I had a weird combo that I really liked. Now for me, Liquid sun rays seems a, for me it sits on my skin a little bit dark and I feel like it takes away from my, that I have a problem with tanning really. It does to me to take away a lot. Yeah. I look like I lost six weeks. Yeah. So here's what I've done. I like the tone of that. I like the tone of Liquid sun rays. I like the thickness of protein. Protein is really, it's that real thin, but it's kind of weird color like orange. You know, what I've done is, I've used Liquid sun rays first. Plyde that the night before. Excuse me, applied that Thursday night and then Friday morning take a shower and then it all washes off. But now I'm stained. And I have like a golden brown, reddish stain. And then from there I apply the protein. It leaves the layers of protein on. And I'll do that like maybe three layers of protein. Then by Saturday morning I have nice color and it's still really thin. It's like protein thin, but with that really nice color that you get from Liquid sun rays. And I know they say like don't mix these. You could have battery actions, but that's what worked for me. I mean, it's just it's been a while but talking to Nikki Henry, Dave Henry's wife who worked for protein. You know, with Carl Everton, it was called a saladis. She's been around, you know, if you don't know if Carl is and you haven't competed in the last like 20 years. That major NPC show at least. So it's kind of a crash. You've everyone's got a different formula. Yeah. Like they were like branch warrant, I guess with someone who always had problems, you know, he always turned green. Yeah. And they always had to figure things out for various people. Seems pH seemed to be one thing that kind of target. But yeah, it's a little bit different for everybody. So the thing with me about the Liquid sun rays, I don't even know, I would like to do that. But I went put it on and literally a week later, I still have just as much color as most people do. Like some people come to all the way off. It's gone. Yeah. For me, it's just stays forever. So which I don't mind, but it makes it hard to do experiments because you can't get back to some of a baseline, no color situation from backhandly for a long while. And I find too that adds a complication. If you do back to back shows, the way the tan it hears to my skin, the first show, is different than two weeks later, three weeks later. And I found the same thing with clients too that, you know, usually it doesn't that second time, doesn't stick very well. We got a question actually, that kind of, and I have a question for you. Yeah, yes, related. Cory Wright says, have you ever used tanning injection? So I think he's talking about malanotin. And let me take that one step further. Do you think it's back in the day when I started, it's got we used to get a really rich based hand before we applied the color? Do we even, do you think we even need to have a based hand in order to get a tan in order to tan nowadays? Does I feel like this stuff is so good? I mean, you could be, look at Ian Valier. I mean, obviously one of his shows, he didn't look great this year. His color was a little off, but when he nails it, I mean, he's just as good as anyone else. And he's a, this pasty of a Canadian is you can get, you know? Yeah. Sometimes the people who have the widest skin, the action that came up on Fruits podcast, because he ends on there. And so is James Hollingshead. And they're both both. You white. Yes. And James, I think James agreed with this, but Fruits, like you look, seems like you lose a little bit from, you know, your normal skin tone Instagram pictures to what you see on stage. Yeah. And I've always felt that. Me too. Either the toned like, and you can't not do it. You mean, really, unless, I mean, even like, even, even guys who are the black is the black will still do it. Yeah. And I think sometimes they lose something too. They like the, the most dark skin competitors who actually end up too dark. Yeah, that could be an issue. That can be an issue depending on, and some of it's like the guessing with the lighting that they may have at the show. So true. Yeah. As far as the taming goes, it's an interesting thing because taming in it of itself, what you're doing is, you know, it's an insult. I always used to, sure the taming is as an analogy for training. You know, if you wanted to get a good tan, you wouldn't like go to the taming booth for like two hours once a week. Right. You know, you tan a little bit each day. Yeah. So it's an insult. It creates an inflammatory response. And that, you know, could, I don't know. I've never, I have to really, really dig and dig and dig. But it's something where you're, you're constantly, you're training your skin, at least in a certain sense, to deal with that, that incoming, this case, you the radiation. And, and, and, and, and at least maintain some general inflammatory health, let's say, some resilience, which may, may impact how it deals with the chemicals that you, that come with the tan. Yeah. So let's say you're, you never have any, chemical exposure. And this, this fits generally with, of immunology in a certain way. I don't know how much of a generalized ability there is from, canning to, using color, but, you know, if your skin's being tan regularly, you're getting inflammatory response, that should seem to happen. It's a shaving to, there's a little bit of a injury to, some elsy shave and like, like, for the second show, I didn't use a razor, just did a, a buzz. Oh, I have that better. Yeah. You can't tell the difference either, you know? Can't. And the hair goes back, anyway, the sum degree by the end of the day, you know, not that it's being judged at night, but yeah. If you, let's say you, for you exactly, if you tan on Thursday, you shave beforehand, right? And there's all they Friday, and like if you're a particular hairy guy and you go 48 hours, you've got stubble, sure, by the end of the morning, they show anyway. So, but you want to avoid, like some of that inflammatory response and the, and the bluriness that can come with that by the irritation of the skin. So, but if you're constantly doing that with some tanning and some shaving, you develop some resilience, at least against those two things, that may have some carry over this is what I'm guessing, maybe with the, with the color, I don't know. But you're also like, you're also going from completely white and totally trusting in the tan, the color that you apply to create the color of your skin. So, not that it can't be done, but like, let's say, you know, like, let's say you're, you're going to paint your car or something like that. And you're going to go from one shade of green to another shade of green. Yeah. You know, you're not going to be, you don't have a perfect spraying device for it. And like it's going to be, you know, the DIY type of job. If you're going from one green to another green, it's not going to be as noticeable if it's a little bit patchy than if you went from white to green. Right. But on multiple coats, obviously, just as you do with the tanning. So there's more room for potential air if you've gone from a totally white untie and skin. And there's maybe something that goes on the interacts with having stress to skin with shaving repeatedly and regularly, and tanning regularly as far as what happens when you put the color on. So, I think it's helpful to have that color there, generally speaking. Hey, what's going on, guys? Thanks for watching another podcast here. I think Big Body Building Media. And thank you to our great sponsor, TrueNutrition.com for making this all possible. TrueNutrition.com is owned by Dante Trudeau, the creator of DC Training. You wanted to create a supplement company that offered high quality third party test and supplements at a fair price. High quality protein powders, just about every type you could think of. Huge variety of flavors, plus health and performance supplements. Check them out, TrueNutrition.com. And hey, if you use our code Advices, you directly support our podcast. Thanks, guys. Let's get back to the program. We're gonna start with the program. We're gonna start with the program. So, you were initially, we're gonna start. We were gonna talk about your carbop, too, related to the show. So, what happened? Because I know, one of the last times we talked, you were like, I think I'm gonna make heavyweight, having eaten carbs in two weeks, man. And you were getting pretty damn lean, you know? So, what, where were we gonna go with this? Well, we're gonna go with what I'm about to tell you. The story of the carbop. Okay. Yeah, so, I tried this last year, I thought, I was no way I'm gonna make light heavy. Yeah. I got to, like, 207, I'm like, I just can't. I'm gonna look too, too shoddy. But I was pretty close. I was getting, I was getting outside, because I'm, you know, I'm not at the top of the way class. Yeah. Yeah. So, I said, well, I'll see if I can get there. So, I can do it. So, basically, I dropped my carbs. I had some, with a couple of nice meals, after the mashers, the national's and there's five weeks into the team, and you, I think it was. Okay. And basically, I had went keto for that entire time with the exception of, like, one two-to-carbohide carbop test run. Okay. And I, and I made weight. Okay. I got down there. And it was pretty fucking rough. It was just, no carbs, you know, a lot of thousand calorie days. Not a lot of fats on some days. I added fats back into some degree. Once I knew it was going to get there. And that, there's various nuances there. It wasn't, I don't, I don't like the look from just a bodybuilding ethos perspective. It was just, I haven't been that small in that light. Yeah. For a little, like, 20 years. I got, well, the family, you know, I hadn't been a light heavy since early 2000s. Yeah. And some of that was dieting down because on that, on the brink, you know, I was probably losing some muscle just to be the top of the way class. Right. But this time, I, so what I, what happened basically is, in the course of that period, I went, I broke sort of one of my cardinal rules knowing I was going to have to do this in order to get down to, to 198. And I didn't have carbs over the course of repeated workout. And I trained, I think I estimated, I trained everything nine or ten times with any incoming carbs before I did about a week or about a carb up test run. Okay. And I put it in about five hundred six hundred grams of carbs. So physiologically, what that means is one, I'm just, only a shit. So, and I'm dry a shit because there's really, the, all the adipose tissues of shrunken down that, that, that, that, that, interstitial space under the skin where the, where the water goes first, if that's where you lost the fat first, that's come down some, my skin shrunk down, for somewhat, because I've been lean for long enough, it finally was happening. So, there's not a lot of extra body water floating around. And the muscle cells are, I want to say like completely, when you talk about depleted, they were depleted. Like, they're probably was no glycogen there, because I hadn't taken any carbs for, you know, ten, eleven workouts, whatever it was. Sure. So, when you bring in carbohydrates, there's, what, a couple things happen. The glycogen, the glucose is brought in. It's, it's, it's converted into a glycogen, macromolecule, which includes a protein called glycogen. And there's also an osmotic effect that brings in water with that. So that idea, I cover this in my book. We talked about it before, I talked about a podcast that, you get three grams of water per gram of glycogen stored. That number actually is like a round-up of, I think, 2.6, which comes from a rat study, looking at glycogen storage and rat liver. If you look at the data, they've tried to, where they've tried the cessas in human, all over the place. It's highly variable. I found them in different circumstances, but, but, if you, it's not a bad estimate, generally speaking. Okay. So if you consider the amount of glycogen that I could, I could store from none to a super compensated state. And the amount of water that come with that, it was, it was a lot. Maybe 2,000 grams, because my liver was empty, and my muscle was empty. Wow. So that's two kilos. If you take that three to one ratio, let's just say it's a thousand. Take that three to one ratio, and there's, there's three other kilos. So there's four kilos, or about nine pounds, a potential weight. Well, I wanted to see what happened when I added, there's one of the things that has to happen when this happens. So cells in order to maintain balance in terms of pressure inside versus outside, and maintain fluid homeostasis in terms of the intercellular fluid pressures, and concentrations of electrolytes inside the cells. And outside the cells, you got sodium potassium. Tasty them inside, sodium is outside. When you store glycogen, you pull water in the cell, gets bigger, it needs to maintain that potassium levels. It needs to pull potassium in. Oh, yeah. Okay. If you don't have any potassium, or you, you don't, don't have a whole lot of fluid outside from which that potassium will be drawn, and you're pulling in massive amounts of potassium, because you're storing massive amounts of glycogen, because you're so glycogen depleted, and it's all being just soaked up like a mouthful, your insulin tends to be sky high. It's a very easy thing, this conceptually, theoretically, that you could end up pulling so much potassium out of that extra cell, your space, which includes the bloodstream, which is providing potassium to the heart, and watch out with potassium levels in the heart. People who don't use like potassium is praying dioretics, for instance, run into issues, cramping all those sorts of things, cramping, and all those sorts of things, cramping, and all those sorts of things. You can end up hypocholemic, needs low potassium. Well, that's what happened, baby. Oh, you went hypocholemic. No kidding. Well, I didn't measure it, but that's presumed what happened. Yeah, okay. And I plan on this possibility. Okay. But here's the interesting thing, that's just sort of fascinating, fascinating from a physiological perspective. And it's something I tell people just for the sake of safety, and warning them, and just being careful that this effect could be so substantial, the chapter, watch out for it. So when I did a practice run, they don't want to carve up too much. Just want to get an idea of what was going to actually happen. I put in like, I think 600 grams of carbs. I could go back and look at the numbers. Okay. And I put on like, I think it was about eight pounds, something like that. Okay. So, and I didn't spill whatsoever. I bet. Yeah. And I started cramping about four or five hours into that. And I drank that water with it to kind of match what I guess, maybe you might get that three to one ratio, something like that. And actually what I was drinking was diatonic water, for the quinine. Okay. And I had a multi-mineral, and I was salting as well to make sure I had plenty of minerals, so the body could handle whatever it needed. And I was adding up a tassum supplement. Yeah. And what else was I doing? Taking massive amounts of torene. And I probably took in 15 grams of torene. Wow. He didn't matter. Yeah. Cramping was ridiculous. Most people would have freaked out and probably go into the hospital, I think. That was that bad. It was that. And I just so I'm like, okay, I'm not going to obviously, I don't have to worry about this. So I just kept on adding water and more torene. And I ended up drinking, I think, probably, you know, ten or twelve liters of water over the course of, you know, I don't, eight or ten hours. Now did you say this was during the, was this during the mark, the mock carbup? It's just the mock carbup. Okay. Yeah. Just double it. I think in that many grams of carbs, I didn't go for it all. Like just I had some sushi, very, very soup, like tuna rolls and tuna pieces. Yeah. And some homemade battery pancakes. I think a sorbet. Of course, yeah, sorbet. Yes, I'm sorbet, of course. And when that's, that's actually something I might, that's great because there's no electilites and there's no sodium in there. But, and I probably need, you're going to need those electilites in order to maintain some balance, especially. And this is what, you know, Candice talked about so many times if you really depleted. And you really dried out and you do a shitload the day of a show and you shitload like crazy. You're not going to spill over for probably 24 hours. Yeah. Really got down and dirty depleted. Yes. And also the shitload is a nice thing. And this is why it is not a bad approach whatsoever in this regard because you're getting plenty of sodium, potassium, electrolytes. You're not eating, try to eat clean things like sorbet. Sorbet is sort of a tool for me. Because my body likes those carbs, but it's also basically free of sodium, potassium, those sorts of things that can cause issues. So you know what you're getting, it's just pure carbohydrates. And, you know what, too. I would like about that. It's free of volume. Because if I'm loading for a show, one of the things I realized I need now is to keep my stomach small, flat. You know, I want it to be, I want it to, I want it to almost be hungry now, I think, is my new thought. When I'm ready, you know. Well, I feel it won't eat anything the day the show has. Yeah. Reason. That's kind of what I end up doing to need much, but I didn't need to after I'd filled up. Yeah. Right. And also, if you look at the weight, really, to the number of grams, it's about a three to one ratio. And then sorbet, so it matches that number, too. But the main, the main take home is that I expected some cramping because of this impact on pulling potassium out of the blood into the cells as I was loading. And I did everything I possibly could. I want to sort of came on. I, you know, I took some, I did some prophylactic tornine and some minerals. And, but I wanted to like make sure it was, these were dry. It was dry increases in muscle volume fullness. And that's filling over. And literally, Scott, I would be like, I finished my carbs and like, okay, I think this is, I think I'm good. You know, literally just pouring the sea salt out doing this and like, there's a Tory, like, you know, five, one thousand milligrams of Tory and drank another liter of water. I'm like, I think it's a good to go. It kind of flexed my foot, my calf doesn't cramps. Like, okay, good. My back's not cramping. Yeah. Probably brought my day to, as I trained legs that day. So I just wanted, I was, I didn't put the whole week together. I just wanted to like throw some carbs and see just, to figure out what actually ended up figuring out it was a very smart idea. Yeah. I was going back on it. But, and I just light it on, I start to fall asleep and all of a sudden, oh, oh, you. I hamstringing would go. And my, hamstringing would go and I try to straighten my leg out. Then my quad would go. Yeah. And then I try to push myself out of bed with the other leg and my glute would go on that side. Okay. So, and we're talking like really, really strong all out contractions. Oh, yeah. So, I got on my stuff there. So I go through the same rig and roll. Kind of stretch it out a lot, give us some time. Five minutes of agony. Lay back down, stretch off, sleep, think and pass it. This happened all night long. The whole night. So, it was pretty bad. When I came around for the actual show, the wanes were Thursday, I waited, I made wait. But it didn't seem so Saturday. Yeah. So, it actually worked out in my favor. I did all the things I doubled up on. Like, every the touring and everything, I still had the cramping because I didn't take many carbs and after that I went back to no carbs. Okay. I still had all that cramping. I got closer. Wasn't as bad, but I would basically didn't sleep that Thursday night. Which is okay because the night before the show, I slept the best I ever have. Nice. Nice. It's amazing dude. I've never slept before show. I like when my best night is to sleep in the whole breath. Wow. It's so tired. I think it helped my look the next day because it's left. I think a regular person. Okay. So, the bottom line is that you need to be careful with that. And this is, it can be remedy to some degree because I was able to pull myself out of it. But I was just, I was so, I've never, I literally, I was telling my buddy Mike actually. You know, when I did my first, first couple shows you remember, it was like, it was very, very different phenomenon to go on through the dieting process and really push that hard. So, kind of a no man's land and it's, it's, you lose perspective. I think on that after having done it for some because I've done so many contests, perhaps. And I know how to do that. I just can sort of walk through it in a certain way. They've been there done that. This was a diabolically difficult diet. Oh yeah. In order to push my weight down that far. Yeah. I knowingly was like pushing really hard. So, I don't know, I don't know many people's would ever truly get into that scenario that I was in. Worked. The body was just sort of like, not knowing what the hell to do to process those carbs. But that is a phenomenon that can happen. This is a question that Ken got asked to think on the, on the book. And you're, yeah. He had said it. It actually had come up with one of his clients. And that's how he learned about it initially. And so it's something he has to watch out for. And let me ask you. So if this is, this is, so this is that you, the potassium is getting pulled from your bloodstream. It's going to the muscle. And you're supplementing with touring and sodium. Why not supplement with potassium? I did. Oh, okay. Because I didn't even mention that. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Potassium gluconeid. I had some actually have a, it's like cave factors. It's in one of the boxes around here. Okay. There's various forms of potassium. Oh yeah. And then you can see like potassium gluconeid comes in like 99,000,000 grams of pills. And that's like 1% of your party. Yeah. They don't want you to mess with your potassium too much. Right. But I took in a lot. Okay. Yeah. You can, sometimes people will go like they use like sweet potatoes and things with high potassium. I was going to go the wrong direction. Yeah. But potassium can be a difficult thing to balance. And the way to sort of think about this is literally, and this, this, this is, this is a solid piece of empirical evidence that what people talk about can really have. And when you, when you, carbuck, you will get drier at the same time. Uh-huh. Because that water is getting pulled from outside the muscle cell, which is in part under the skin. We don't want it. Inside the cells. Yeah. And what that means then is that, and when you compare those two compartments inside the cell, muscle cells and outside the muscle cells, you're relatively speaking dehydrating that extra cellular, extra, extra, myoselular compartment outside the muscle cells. You're dehydrating yourself. Yeah. In terms of what the neurons are seeing. The neurons are outside the muscle cells. And when you get cramps, it's a, it's a function of what the neurons are doing. Mm-hmm. The neurons are the ones that aren't, are having a hard time maintaining the membrane. Okay. Well, at polarity and they're just spontaneously depolarizing, then you get, that's when the cramps come on. Okay. So you're literally dehydrating yourself. That's a certain way. So the key is going to be water, probably taking in more water and potassium and sodium. I always say like throw a little bit of everything in there, but a practice run is super duper important. Yeah. Especially if you come like I did and did what it did to try to make, it was, it was a really, you can tell. I'm still excited about like having had the chance to do that experiment. I don't, you know, I may have looked like, you know, I just stepped out of a concentration camp. And I kind of did. I don't like to look at all pictures never do justice. I have, I have a picture, I think, back pre and post color. Okay. But I can put up that shows I was in pretty good shape, but I don't like that look. It was two wither away. But what I learned from that and like this piece of information and this experience is just invaluable. Yeah. Like, I think I got third place at like five or six. Okay. You know, in my class and my in the over 50s. Okay. So, you know, it's no that really matters. You know, I could have gotten last. I could have gotten first. But what I got to learn was really pretty wild. That is cool. I will throw this out too, just because it was funny like I had a laugh with another of the competitors. So I went in and they're like, they've got so many people that are trying to shuffle through for the way. I got there early. I literally looking like an hour before and so I could get in line and get in and out and then start to eat. Yeah. Oh, because I wanted to make sure, when they tried to get the carbs in, if I had the cramps, they'd take the carbs out, the top of the cramps before I got on stage. But when the maximize at times. So I go in, I'm like the first guy through and these are mainly women are checking in the early. You were competing that the next day or maybe even, I think just the next day. Okay. So I go through, I'm bodybuilding and I need to weigh in. They want to the height me. Like you don't have to height me. I'm bodybuilding. There's no height. Yeah. Like we got to height him. Don't we? No. Don't have to height me. Can. But I'm doing. I'm not in classic. Yeah. Because they didn't know. I was like, little of the first guy through, I think on that day. Yeah. And I went over and I said, so I put in my application as a heavy. But I've died of my ass off and I should make light heavies. Yeah. I even got down. I was 196 when I left just to make sure. Oh, you know. Yeah. Yeah. That's very bad. I intentionally did that. And I think they weighed me in even less than that. Because some of it, skills are always a light. Sometimes the go the other way. I was one of the be sure. Yeah. That's the one to fuck around with that. Get back in line. The line was like 400 people long or something like that. So the guy's like, he's like, he's like, I'm just weighing in whatever you weigh you way that you weigh class. I'm like, okay. I just want to let you know. So I'm afraid of that, you know, I'm going to be a different class than I would like what I registered for on my paperwork. Yeah. So yeah, I didn't matter. He's like, that'll care. Okay. Okay. So I'll go ahead. So I went through and did that. Give my music. The whole DJ thing was funny at that show. There are some people listening here probably went to that show. The DJ did drop the ball on so many of that. It was like, I was like, I was actually looking forward to seeing what I was going to get. Yeah. What am I going to get the post to? Some myelysyrus maybe or something. Yeah. I didn't know. So the morning comes. They do the over 70s, over 60s, over 50s. Long day, long day. Even if you're just doing the over 50 and over, you know. Yeah. Well, we're right off the bat. So the older guys are first. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So it's not the age preference. Yeah. Which is nice. I like that actually. Done earlier. So they call the light heavies and they don't call my number. So I walk over to the guy is a young guy. And he was perfect for that job because he likes he's just like a take no shit in the Englander like getting lined. Do what I say. Pipe down. Here we go. Come on if you're not here. Then screw you. That's it. So I went up and I said, hey, I'm actually made. Wait for the light heavies, but I'm probably not on your list because they didn't register the heavy didn't know I was going to make light heavies when I put in my application. He's like, I don't have you here. I'm like, I know that. I'm going to tell you this. Is it could you check on that because I'm in the light heavies. I made weight and I've that's glass of one I'd like to compete and he's like, you're going to get on stage one way or another. What's it matter? You're literally sad. It was very close to that. I'm like, well, it mattered all those days when I was I was like I was in a concentration camp. You know, trying to get down to this weight class. So it's very intentional that I don't think he competes. Yeah. Obviously, I was with me in the least. I'd love to give this guy a shout out right now. Yeah. No, I mean, no. No, no, no, no. There's no, no, fuck him. Sorry, fuck him. It was kind of interesting. He like, I'm like, I didn't like no, even went to say to him because he just he like he's really kind of so he gets on his phone he call or he's self on puts his head said in call somebody. Yeah. I just figured out I'm waiting there and he's like, you know, like I'm waiting here, waiting here, waiting here and here. So, so, okay, so they start they bring us back so we have to go through the catacombs and the underbelly of the hotel in order to get back to the backstage area. And so he lines, he runs us through which is put me at the end of the line and then he says, okay, and he turns around he walks back down to where we came from. And he doesn't say anything to me. I like I got no confirmation if I'm in the weight class. So I walk up to the young ladies who are the expediting and I said, so here's the guy who just brought us up. He was going to check on this, but I haven't heard. I don't know that I'm in the list for this weight class. She's like, what? I said, why made weight? I registered a total whole thing again. Why are you the guy who waiting in? Yes. Who is the guy? Yeah. Who like, he's like, I don't give a shit. Like, he remembered that. I'm actually glad, you know. I can't forget the hair. So what he said, he was like, like, you know, pushing us through pretty hard then. But he was totally cool backstage. Very relaxed and cool about it. So, go, I remember you. Like, yeah, you weight like 196. I'm like, yeah, there we go. He's like, hold on. Let's confirm all this. Like, make sure, but here you remember the top of his head. So you're going to know why I remember that shit. But I do. So literally, they're confirming that I'm in the weight class as the first guy is going out and doing his major towards something. It was going to last. It was going to last. Some people would be losing their mind backstage about that. Oh, I mean, you know, it wasn't like I'm going to, you know, enter like head. I knew it was going to get on stage either way. It doesn't matter. It's like, how the bikini competitors, you know, I'm on, it's all that matters is that I'm on stage. It doesn't matter. Weight class or anything that kind of thing. So, so again, there's a pierce of this, you're going to love this. So I did the over 40s as well. You might as well, you know, it's actually two-fifth. Sure. So they call the light heavies. And they don't call my name. So I went up to the guy and I said, hey, I think the same thing probably happened. He looks at me's like, what? I said, I was in the over 50s. I mean, the light heavies we couldn't have. I mean, he's like, what? I was like, oh, yeah, you. Okay. What would they ever figure out? I'm like, why, maybe the light heavies. He's like, okay, hold on. And he did a like head to a miniature version of that. Yeah. And when I went back up, it was very easy that time. But it was like, I figured that would probably happen because you know, I'm not going to switch me over. But it was really, it was really funny if we do. It's just like, ah, you're going to get on stage and going to be here the other. And I'm like, I knew I made weight. Like, there was no doubt in my mind. It wasn't like, you know, like you guys. In fact, I didn't get upset. Like, lose my mind because, like, I had, it's kind of like, there was, it's like there's, if I went in and like, you know, there's a, I'm the plaintiff of, and I having being shot by someone. And there's video footage, you know, because there was in the stadium full of people. Like, the evidence is clearly in my favor. Yeah. But I'm supposed to be light heavy. If you guys don't get me to that class, it's, it's not going to look good. Like, you guys, I know this is going to have to happen. There's just no way it's not going to go down this way. Yeah. You know, like, if it does, then, and obviously it was fine. But it wasn't concerned that, you know, they're going to drop that ball. And they do, I see that before in shows where they bring someone out and they have, you know, someone come out with another weight class. You know, sometimes because they were late or, I think because they've made administrative error, but anyway, so I did, I did, and I was probably like, I think that was 206 on stage. Okay. Yeah, after the car book, because I held that weight. Wow. It just stayed. Yeah. It just stayed. Oh, I guess so. So, yeah. Anyway, so that was the main thing. It's just to share the cramping thing. And I literally had to do the car book a whole day early, which I don't really would anyway, but there was no water to drop. Yeah. Yeah. So, that's the thing. If you have dieted down that hard, and you're really that depleted, you can kind of carve up and fill out. And water is like, I have a peak leak protocol that does seem to help many people. And part of that is literally just giving them something to do. Yeah. Boxes to check, you know, here's some sort of structure rather than relying upon it all kind of come in together magically. It gives them, you know, basically just to plan to follow. Yeah. As opposed to just trust that your car is going to get you there because the autopilot is going, like now you have directions, you can actually feel like you're in control. But if you diet it down and push that hard, and really are that depleted, you don't have to, you don't have to have to worry about water. There was no water. I don't know what I, I don't know. I could have drank, like gone into the convenience store and grabbed the pickle jar. So they have, you know, and crunched drink, a whole, you know, whatever five gallon thing, a pickle juice, and I wouldn't held water. Yeah. So that was so depleted and so dry. So there's a lot of juice that I got to do what I like to do so much is like, so I knew that it was the case, because I'd seen it previously in various forms. But now I got to like really push kind of beyond that line. And each time I put those carbs in, it went in at about that three to one. About that three to one ratio 500 grams gave me about 2,000 grams of weight, which is about six or seven pounds. When I did the, the, the, the carbup was like 12 or 1500. It did the same thing. I went from 196 to like 208. And I was doing a six to the next morning. I mean, like that. It all like, it mathematically worked out actually really well. And there was no water retention at all like, I, I didn't, I didn't push it to spill, which I normally would have. I didn't want that cramping to carry over. So my next time, if I probably go down to that way again, but ideally, I would have spilled and then dropped the water. That's the point of filling and spilling, which is Ken's term. But I borrowed from him. Because when you spill, you know you, you've, like, a super compensated and then some, and you're getting a, this is what I think after there's a backup effect with that glucose, doesn't get brought in. There's no more room to store it. So it gets sort of like sort of like the line leading to the bar, you know, backs up to its outside. Yeah. So the glucose is not in the, in the bar where it would be pulling water in, instead the, those patrons, the glucose molecules are stuck there. They're pulling water that, intercellular, or extra cellular, interstitial space in the whole water. So I would have liked to have done that, but I was scared if I did that, then I cramping would have been an issue on stage. I didn't have a long, that was going to take so check it off. But, and I also, those carbs when they went in, even though I hadn't been eating carbs like my body, it's just punched them off. Oh, my bad. Yeah. It was crazy. It was crazy. So it was a really, like, the extreme of the extremes that, at least that I've experienced, when pushing the weight down and, you know, with the food and everything else, and I got the really kind of test in a full blow and experiment those notions of, if you're in shape, that you're going to feel up really well, you don't have to worry about water. Yeah. How much weight were you put on, you know, theoretically versus what actually happens, and it all, like, it was always pretty cool. It's like, it's like, you're, you're right, it's like NASA. Like, we've got all these calculations that go into launching the rocket with the fuel and the propulsion and the angle, and it actually went off the way it's supposed to. Yeah. Yeah. And so that was pretty cool. So I just wanted to share some of that as well as make people aware that the cramping thing is, can happen. So be ready. Yeah. Anti-cramping. That's awesome. That's cool, man. Yeah. Doing it yourself. I feel like it, and even like we look at your last prep previous, well, the previous season when you competed, like there still, we still get questions about like you eating high protein in that prep today. Like, you know, we're still learning. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, we're still learning from it. Let's cool. Yeah. You know, the thing too is that I did, when I was doing all that training with out any carbs, you know, the pump was I got some kind of a pump, but it wasn't like anything. And what I've noticed too, but I've told people and I've known this for a long time, when people do the fortitude training stretches, yeah. You don't have much metabolic stress because you don't have the glycogen to foster the production of those metabolites. Yeah. The lactic acid is in there because the glycogenolus is sucks because there's no glycogen to do glycogenolus this way. If it's all gone, so you don't get a pump and the stretches don't hurt. Okay. Then you come in after a show and your nice and fully done a carb up and those stretches hurt like shit because one of the muscles bigger and taller, there's more metabolites there. Yeah. Just look at the pH and all the other things that give you that pump feel. But I was getting like no pump, but I ended up hanging there pretty well in terms of strength. Just, you know, the sets would, and this is just people pass me these questions I mentioned before, the thing I would just, my sets were bonking. I could tell the bonking would happen. In fact, it kind of happened early on, but you notice like when glycogen gets lower, there's sort of a bonking effect. You know what the bonking term is from marathon from the endurance world, what bonking means? Yeah, we kind of talked about it before. Yeah. But you know, the marathon runners like the monoglycogen they have and how fast they use it. If they haven't, like a super compensated around mile 20, the run on glycogen, like a genus superior in terms of providing ATP for energy during the running. So when you run a glycogen, they just the speed of running will kind of go down and they just hit the wall. That's the bonk. That was happening to the sets. And I would just kind of keep on going, but I could feel that happening like all, there's like, there's almost a gut to feel that there's no bonk. There was just the muscles like kind of a little bit non responsive in a way. But you just battled through, but first I went from filling those bonks because the glycogen level is getting low. And then I went to where like there was no pump, but I just kept on training hard. And I didn't lose much, I just, you know, meated it out and just dug in. But it was interesting as well. So that was another aspect of what happens with glycogen use and the pump and those sorts of things. So the stretches were, I was like, kind of like, I'm like, I'm stretchin' as hard as I can. It doesn't hurt. Because there's no metabolites. There's nothing there. Yeah. So anyway, I think that's all of my, those are the main insights. For today. You know, I'm sure, I'm sure there'll be more. We had a bunch of questions. You had some from Instagram. We got about a dozen more while you've been talking. I did want to tell you a little bit about my training because I managed to, I managed to hit a personal best yesterday. And the dumbbell incline press, which has been one of the lifts I've really been working on. It's got, I just realized it's been a year since I've been working on that. And I'm just now, what's that? That's how it happens, man. Just keep plugging away. Yeah. It's been a year. And it was about a year ago that I did a set with the one tens in David Smith told me that my form wasn't really good on it. That I wasn't really using a full range. And I started talking to him. And initially, I was like, because it was the best I could possibly do. And my thought and I told you on the show even at the time, I was like, I'm really excited because now my goal is to not go any heavier than this, but try to get better with it. But I didn't quite know how much better I could get with it. And then after talking with him more, he took a bunch of time and explained to me, cues on how to get better with that lift. And now I can bring the dumbbells all the way down really good form. And I feel like I'm a lot safer too. And just overall, I feel like I'm in really good control. I feel like I've used progressive overload, but I'm just now using the one 15s. It's been a year. And I went from using the one tens to the one 15s. Yeah, I feel like it's been progressive overload. There's another wrong with that. Think of it. Think of it this way. It's a way to sort of reframe that that might make you feel better about that. So it's been a year. Let's say that, let's say there's someone who weighs 130 pounds. So obviously, let's see you, whatever. Let's see you with 130. So that means your fat free mass is about 110 or 115. And over the course of one year, you go from a fat free mass or a muscle mass, fat free mass, including muscle of 110 to 115. Yeah. And the five pound difference is muscle mass. Yeah. So I'm using that analogy with the idea behind it being that that progressive overload, an increase in performance, all the things being identical, absolutely equal, which you can really say is representative of increase muscle mass. Yeah. Yeah. So if you truly, if your form is the same, everything else is identical and you go from a 225 pound bench or a 15 pound bench, that should be represented to some degree of muscle mass. Yeah. So if you go on from 110 to the one 15s and all the things being equal, that's a five pound jump. We can't necessarily do this. Just sort of hypothetical sort of a way of a brain sort of view this through this lens. But that would be kind of the same as someone who's like about 130 who has 100, who's maybe 15 percent, 20 percent body fat who goes from 110 pounds of fat, three mass, 115 pounds of fat free mass. Yeah. That's five pounds of fat free mass in one year for a very light person. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And like 10, that's like 5 pounds is nearly it's maybe a 9 percent increase, over the course of a year. And 9 percent increase in fat free mass in your whole body is a lot. Yeah. And I feel good about it. I feel really good about it. Sorry. More like sort of 5 percent. 9 percent. I was flipping the math in my head. I just think you're worried for it. But I do. I feel good about it. And I guess the reason I wanted to bring it up is because, you know, When we do, we have talked a lot about progressive overload and I think that a lot of times it for the viewers, for the listeners, it can be a thought of that you have to be lifting more. You have to be lifting more and more constantly that each week you're lifting five more pounds and five more pounds and five more pounds and then the argument comes in. What you could only do that for so long. Otherwise everybody's going to be benching a thousand pounds that does progressive overload and it's like, but no, this to me I want people to understand that and it's an experience I've had to go through myself to get it. But yeah, I've progressed and I'll tell you what, man, I'm a lot stronger because so my next step, I don't have 120s at home but I do have 125s. Mind you by the way, all these dumbbells are five pounds heavier than what they say. So my 115s are actually 120s and my 125s are actually 130s. So if I want to say, you have like the little Ivanko labels on them or they have a marker, like a white marker written. Someone wrote it on there. Yeah, one one five. And because they handle weights five pounds and they did that. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. Oh, that was just like someone who doesn't know how to like, yeah. I noticed though with the gyms though, I've counted them and a lot of gyms have the same thing. It'll say, you know, 100 pounds but when I do the math, there's a 100 pounds of weight on the bar on the handle. But the handle itself isn't being counted. So in the handles about the floor and the handle right. Yeah. Anyway, so yeah, but I'm confident though, I got the 115s for my top set for 10 reps and they felt strong. So I, you know there's days and it was one of those days where I wasn't sure if it was going to be a great workout. I had one of my clients over shout out to Julian. He asked a lot of questions though. So while we're warming up, he's asking me questions and I'm picking up like the 85s and I'm listening to him talk and I'm doing a few reps and then finally it got to the point where like I'm getting ready to do my top set and I was like, I can't, I got to stop, I got to focus. So I asked me after this because I'm about to do the heaviest thing I've ever done in my entire life, you know. And then he got it, you know. Yeah. I mean, he's good guy. He just, he, he wants to learn, you know. But then, you know, I just had to tell him this. So you understood, but I'm thinking to myself like, I don't know if I'm in the right place, but by the time I was warm, dangerous. Dangerous. Yeah. By the time I got to the like the 105s, which I did, I did a set for two reps with the 105s, just a feeder set. And when I picked him up, I could tell they felt light. There's a face of video like maybe when comes out on YouTube. Okay. Yeah. So I got to go one of five's up. I could tell they felt light in my hand, like I could whip him up, you know, off the rack. And I knew with that point. Yeah. I knew that this is going to be a good one. And I lifted the most I've ever lifted in my life and done ball process today. And it was an amazing feeling, like flat out. It was badass. And I know that those, the way that felt, if I could get 10 with the 115s, then I know that I could do the 125s within a few weeks, I'll be there. So I'm going to, I think taper back for a minute and, indeed, load for a minute. Oh, yeah, I'm July. A little bit. Yes. Yes. And then I'm going to push back up in what I do. I think if not this round, the next round, I think I'll get to the 125s. You know, I mean, you can, you can actually just go in order the pro style plates to get some 120s if you want. You've got to heck, to heck screw at the end of the dumbbells there, right? You know what? Now that you mentioned it, I actually have the plates. I figured you did, like, you, yeah, so you can, you can just fashion those. I guess I could. Yeah. Yeah. There you go. I guess I could. This is where I gave you PST. PST. PST. PST. You smart one with the VHT. You go tell people smart things. I thought about getting the, what do you call them, the plate mates? But those, those are 60 bucks for, yeah, you know, little, little tiny additional. Yeah. You can go to the hardware store and get, like, really big, there's all sorts of bits and pieces. We get some nice, actually I'll send you a link. There's some, there's some magnets. You can get some magnets that are just ridiculously strong. Like the kind, like, you know, if you put them together, like, you're not getting them apart, you know, shit. Yeah, like, I've got some, I picked up like that, like, for putting, like, mounting things on my RVs and various things that I don't want to come off. Like, we have one magnet that I screwed in on a rear view camera. Yeah. And the magnets only, like, look, that big, you know, it's maybe a centimeter by three or four centimeters and I don't know how it's not even a half a centimeter. It's so strong. Yeah. Yeah. And so you can get some really powerful magnets in order them. And then just get some iron, like, get some large washers, all sorts of things you can do. It's just to make your own plate mates. That's cool. What people have done that. Yeah. That's a good idea. Yeah. Insidering that. Oh, yeah. We did that back with DC training. That was the thing back in the day. Yeah. Whenever, oh, yeah, making your own plate mates, so you can micro load. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, like, Jordan, I think it's, it's actually on two ads. Podcasts where Jordan was talking about he brings, you know, the smaller plates with him. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So, like, you can micro load and, you know, I've got, I've got those in my back, too. You know, I've got a whole bunch of them about that ahead of my gym. Okay. So, you can buy those. You can make them. And like the pins that you, you know, with the post on, you stick into the select resume machine so you can throw 40 pies. Oh, yeah. People started making those and Dante still has somebody out, who, who we found make. You can, anyone who could well, can make one of those. But, yeah, they're all, they're always a little hacks, you know, from 15 years ago, DC training as the head of micro load, just doing exactly what you're talking about doing. Yeah. You get a little bit more. So, like, now you can go to the, the thing with the dumbbells can be the issues that, like, if you've got to rest them on your thighs, you've got plate mates on there, you don't have a big and then like the end of the plate mates, you don't want to have a prepped word about keeping a plate mate centered. Yeah. Yeah. So, that's not the best idea. Yeah. Just, uh, Highland Park Powerhouse, they have the 200 pound dumbbells and, uh, they're, they're like hand made. They're like big pieces of steel with a rod in between basically. I think one of them's even broken at this point. But, uh, there's duct tape all over them because people had taped 10 pound plates to the sides of them before. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yep. Yeah. We've seen that quite a few times. Yeah. Well, there it's. I've heard stories of that in jail that people would, you know, when the dumbbells break, they're done, but they would tape plates to make them heavier and stuff like that. Yeah. So, yeah. There was a guy on professional muscle, Justin Rice, he's now passed on. He's a really nice guy, he came down with some sort of neurological disorder. He was just like, he pushed the limits of everything he did, but he's a super nice guy. And he was in jail for a while. I think recreational drug dealing or use are both. Yeah. And he, but he was giant. Like, there was a picture of him standing next to Ronnie and Ronnie's hey, they're about the same size. Yeah. He'd have Ronnie's shape, but he was just crazy. He was a guy, he was a guy I mentioned before. He started training with weights. He was a sprinter for New Zealand. And he put on 50 pounds of muscle in the first six months. Natural crap. And then he heard that these steroids help you get stronger and bigger too. So he threw in some who knows what and again, another 50 pounds. Yeah. The next six months, he got 100 pounds in the first year of training. Oh, my God. Pretty good genetics. I guess so. Four hundred and five pound behind the neck presses. Yeah. That kind of stuff. But he talked about in jail, like I think he called him like totem pole squats. These guys would do. So they would, one guy would get on one, another guy I show. And then like another guy would get underneath that guy. So he would do squats like with two people sitting on top of one another. And they just, they go into like a corner. They find like a pillar somewhere for the sake of balance. Oh, yeah. That makes sense. He'd have two hundred pounds on his back. Yeah. Two hundred pound dudes or whatever. Or bigger. That's pretty hot. That way. That's crazy. So yeah, you make that shit work. Yeah. Yeah. I did a whole podcast back at the beginning of advices and I had four different people on who had been in prison. And John Romano was one of them actually. And they out, we talked about all the different aspects. But that's a whole other story. What do you say we get to a few of these questions? All right. Don't throw out already. Let's see. Oh, yeah. We are like an hour in already. But we still have people watching. I have the time if you have the time here. Oh, yeah. Since we're talking about training, I'm going to bring up this question because I just saw it was training related. He says question for Dr. Scott as soon as Jim's reopen, I'm starting 42 training with multiple basic blasts and tests the different volume tiers. I'll do everything by the book. But I have only one issue. I love going to the gym. It's part of the routine. Maximum, our minimum five times a week. So in conclusion, when I bastardize the basic version to a five times a week splitting the muscle around days three and four, can I do it? He wants to know if he can split the muscle around into three days instead of two. Maybe doing legs, then back chest delts, then arms and abs. Did you ever have anyone training 42'd five or even six times per week? And if yes, how did they manage the split? PS maybe add some niche or particular suggestions to a newbie to a fortitude. Something not in your books that you wouldn't mind sharing out of experience. Okay. So I'm going to be direct and upfront. Okay. I'm going to make this sort of maybe one of my simplest answers is my guess from what he's saying and I've looked at Anthony's Facebook profile. Is that he, a short answer does it matter? Okay. And here's why I say this. This is sort of like this is the super tough love answer. I'm looking at him and he looks as if he prefers, and that's rather wrong with it. He prefers going to the gym as opposed to getting after it and making the most gain he possibly can. Because he looks like it's a very young guy in his profile picture. He looks like he's, if you told me, if you told me you never trained, I wouldn't be against that. Okay. So here's not a huge, my guess is just from the look of his profile is that he's, he wants to just be able to go in and train and enjoy himself as much as possible. Okay. So all the, all the rhyme and reason as to why taking training as hard as you can, having days off and rest in recovery, it may not apply to him whatsoever, just guessing. Okay. And that's kind of what he says is like, he can't keep away from the gym. Yeah. And if someone were making great gains that way, then you want to accommodate that. Yeah. And what I'm saying here's, I don't think from judging from what he looks like. I may be totally off here. He's not making great gains, but he prefers rather than get to the gym. And I mean, he's done it wrong with that. You're a, you're ahead of it like, you know, 95% of the population because you're training. So, you're bringing to it. Yeah. And so that is you just take day one of day two, the loading sets and pumps that's just put them up. Okay. So day one is loading sets lower pumps sets up where you do that on Monday and then you do the upper body on Tuesday, then you take Wednesday's workouts, spread it over Wednesday and Thursday and then you do day three and day four on Friday and Saturday, the gives you six days in the gym. I guess it's a question all the time. No, that gets you in the gym. Yeah. That's, but the whole ethos of that question and what I'm seeing from his profile. And I hate to do this, but I want to like, I'm answering this question towards the general population and this is, this is almost like this is like someone fabricated this question so I can address this topic. Okay. Is that, is that there's a different, it kind of depends on where you are in that spectrum of trying to make the best progress you possibly can versus I want to go in the gym and feed that need in urge that I have the train and what they does for me psychologically, etc, etc. I want to be in the gym and I just can't help myself versus I want to make the best game that possibly can. Yeah. And one more thing, I know get something to say, but the other thing is that the thing that a lot of people don't recognize is that if you go in and you train as hard as you possibly can, you're going to need those off days. Most people. Yeah. Not everyone, there's lots of pros, Brandy Curry, we talked about this when he was on the podcast, there's that have Ronnie Coleman, have tremendous recovery abilities and they can get away with training more regularly, but a lot of people if they go in, give it all he possibly can was off days have to happen. That's when you grow. Yeah. So, he's along that spectrum where he wants to be able to train, you go in the gym and get all the benefits that come from regular training and make some progress. But my guess is that there would be no point me trying to convince him to just stick with the four day a week, train as hard as you can, and go for the progress because that's not the path that he's more devoted to. I like the psychology of this. I like the psychology of it. I do. Because, hey, it's up to him now. What does he prefer? What does he want? You know, if he, if, and I think you're absolutely right, that if it's, you know, there was it, I think that you've helped me to understand this, got that, you know, what we all, we get different things out of the gym, and it's not my place to tell you what to get out of the gym. Now if you want to train like me, then, and you want to have the same goals that I have, then you're not going to want to train as often. You can't. The workout I just talked about, that was four sets for chest. It was two sets for dumbbell incline press, and then two sets on my machine, my new F-light chest converging chest press, which is I love it, by the way. But that was it. You know, it was four working sets, and I won't train chest again for a little while, because I, and I'm not training at all today. Like I've been training every other day, and that's working out pretty smoothly for me. So, but my goals are probably different than his, so there's that. Yeah. Well, the thing, because I have seen this question, you're totally right. Thanks for kind of confirming that I'm on the right track with the way I'm looking at this. I've seen this literally the same question about every six months for the last five or six years, whenever it's always comes up repeatedly. Yeah. And there's an easy way to do it. We had it on the podcast here, maybe two months ago someone wanted to, wanted to split, and he actually decided to not do that. He had a reason because I can't remember his name. You knew who knew this poster and the name rang a bell, but you would know who he is. I mean, if I said, remember his name. But he was, I mean, his 40s maybe older guy in the grand scheme of things. I can say that because I'm an old guy. And he had only an number of minutes, only X amount of time. Like he did most of the six and he had to go to work. So he looked like he could get up earlier and train longer. He had no choice, you know, given family set of set of set of set of. So I gave him this possibility. He found out a way to make it work. I think he stuck with a four day week so we could get that recovery in. But this was a thing with DC training. I suppose there was a DC training question or somewhere too. Yeah, there is. People would, you know, back in the day and they would just get jumped on by the, you know, the DC Nazis and say, do it the way Dante said, you know, and follow that first. Yeah. They'd want to like go in and immediately change things and someone has been training for a year and a half or whatever and they want to just do something different. Yeah. But what what what happens and this is a, a support I make a lot with four to two training. If you're on my board, if what it's worth people don't always know this, if you're, if you're by the four to two training book, read the purchase email, give you instructions, get on my discussion board. I go on there every single day and answer questions if there are questions there. I've answered every question related DC or four to two training that I can think of. And what happens is if you go on there and you have questions that you could obviously find after those questions, but you also have all the people who've had logs, other people who've done before to training the way I have, you have this collective consciousness of people with that same experience using the four day a week split, a four day a week training approach with the with the basic and the turbo versions with whom you can compare notes. But if you go and start changing things up and do anything differently, you're sort of an island. Yeah. And it's really helpful if you're, you know, someone who's relatively new to this to be able to say, you know, I did Mad Cows 5 by 5 or I did Jim Wentler's 531 or I did a poetry specific training or did DC training or this mountain dog training version or J.P. Strainy, whatever. And I did it just the way. And like someone says, oh, I find like, yeah, I can't do that hip hinge movement ball by this hip hinge movement, those two days in a row, that was a big, no, no, for me, I just switched it around like this. Like, oh, okay, yeah, cool. That insight could only come if you're actually following the program the way it was written out. Like, all those other thousands of people have done it. Yeah. Yeah. But when you start going in, if you went in, like literally, like, let's say cheer, volume cheer one was the best one for you, generally speaking in 42 training. So that's the least amount of volume. And that's just what would be best training four times a week. But you want to go in and train six times a week. Yeah. Well, that's not really shit on those days, other days. What the strategy of taking day one and splitting out over Monday and Tuesday and day two is splitting out over Wednesday and Thursday, having those two workouts means each of those workouts is pretty pitiful. Yeah. Yeah. For some, I mean, there's still hard, but they're very, very short. Yeah. That's much more reasonable. Go to volunteer three and they can be relatively long depending on the person. But they can still be done, obviously many, many, many people have done that. But if you're, if you're, if you're wanting to, take it this sort of one end of the spectrum scenario is split out. You're not too going to hold back to the lot. It's like one set for chest. Yeah. Two sets for back on the loading sets and you're done. Well, that person who, like, really likes to be in the gym, what are they going to do? I'm going to do a little bit more. I'm going to do something that I'm doing. And next thing, you know, they're trying to do like volume two or three when, you know, and training more often. And they've, now they're six, well, you know, like Israel tells cells that says that, and I'm not picking on Mike, but he's one of the loudest ones. Like, oh, you know, everyone says, volume is the driver of high-perch. So volume more volume is better. I should probably do that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But what that ends up meaning is over the course of a week. They're having fewer of those days off. But there's something to say for a day off where you can just like have a complete day off. It's like a lot to get otherwise because you're coming in, rip, run, ready to go. And I guess you're most of time. But now you've increased, now you may, because you're feeding that desire to just be in the gym and doing things. You may be doing double the volume that would be best for you because you're still training those muscle groups. That many times over the course of that week. So it's still, you're doing volume two or one, you can put it on to your two. Like those volume tiers are, the training is over those, what would be four sets of your taking it over six. Now you're doing twice the volume in the same period of time. Even though you spread out for more days and those workouts don't feel as strenuous because of that in a certain way, you're still, you still don't, you haven't made the week longer and give yourself more recovery time. You just increase the volume, perhaps beyond what is optimal for your recovery and making progress. The reason being because you want to be in the gym more frequently. And you start doing more and you're looking at it from the standpoint of a single, I want to say the word in German is a training, training dinheit, like a training singularity, a training session. I want to do those, have each session needs to be good and awesome. Well, you can go in and Monday and have a bad ass training session so it was so damn good. You're like, I think I could use a break today. I'm looking forward to this when you come back on Wednesday, you're like, I'm ready to kick some ass again. That's what I would rather have people doing chopping at the bit. Be training a little bit less and want to train as hard as they possibly can. That's what DC training, that's why DC training works for so many people because this even, you know, you could say less revolium, the frequency is a little bit less. Then how forward should it be done depending on which volume tree you use? Because you're like, you know, I'm a training chest on Monday. I'm doing the two-way split DC training, let's say, hypothetically Monday and Friday. I got one rest-pause set for chest to do. One, this is it. I got these next two minutes. It's like that M&M song, you know, whatever the camera of the words exactly, but you got one shot, you know, one chance and you got to make it happen. And if you don't, like you don't get, like, oh, I'm going to do a duo over. I'm going to just go do some more. Let's do a couple sets of peck flags and things like, you got to make that shit happen. If you got to get one more rep, two more reps each time. It was like you said when we were at, we went and trained at Metro Fitness together. I had a couple, I think it was a couple of years ago at the Arnold. And you said, down in Columbus, like my, my, my Davies gym, Metro Fitness West, I think it is. Or I think, we're the one. We're the one. We're the one. I think we're just used to live. I don't remember which one it was. Yeah, we're the one. He said, you scots said to me, it was like, well, we could pick a couple of exercises and we could really go to town and those do a couple of hard sets. Or we could do some bullshit all around the gym for the next couple of hours. That's what you, that's what you, that's what you, that's what you're basically your words. Yeah, yeah, you know, I think we did it. We did it. We did it. We did stuff out. Yeah, I think we did like three sets. It was a good workout though. I think that it's something that takes, it takes time to, to understand. You know, to be able to, it's hard to tell somebody to get more out of less. You know, it's something you couldn't have told me. It's, it's from the time you started telling me about it. Actually, I should say from the time I started listening. That was 2017 at the end of my last show in November. And from there, I started splitting, chastop into two different days per week. And I saw how getting more out of less made sense. And over time, I had to learn for myself. And it took, it took years to get to, like where I met today, you know. And I got to tell Anthony, this is not the pot calling the kettle black. I am the worst. I was the worst. Anyone I know. Yeah. Because I used to, I used to think, you know, if I can, eventually, my body will have to adapt. The more I do, it will have no choice in the matter. And I can manage you to grow along with course, each week's lecture. It didn't work. But at the end of the show, I was just going to bring you 20 sets of 20 sets of 20 reps. 20 sets of 20 reps. Lots. Yeah. I trained that way for a while. Just all this crazy ass and I and stuff. It was amazing that I was just wasn't like a heaping massive, like torn connective tissue, you know? Yeah. But I did that. And I loved going to the gym. Oh, I have to. Let me, if I, I'm on the same page. Yeah. But I had to kind of, you know, figure that out. So what I'm telling you is, is sort of like me, you know, my younger self, the words of wisdom that I wish I could have passed on way back when it would have saved me like, these way over a decade of training, Clay Training like an idiot for a long time, you know, trained, I learned how to train really hard, which is always sort of a natural inclination, but way way too much, one of the gym every day, when I was in grad school I did that, I trained every day for like two years straight, but wasn't very much, but I needed that, it didn't matter what time, I always made that time for me, that was so much therapeutic, I knew I was going to make gains because of the way it worked casual, but so there was a reason for that, but I'm definitely not looking down on it, that's a reason that question gets asked so regularly, it is therefore to fact a good question, because there's one that many people have, it's one that I would have given the same answer myself about, so it's I'm not picking on him, that's, you know, the thing is, I hope, you know, me sort of digging in and like, you know, vetting my a little bit, looking at his picture, it's like, who knows, maybe he'll flip things around and come to realize, you know, I like, he likes training obviously, maybe he'll start to figure out, I like training really, really hard and growing, really, really, optimally sort of speak, or better than he has been by not going in there so often having those off days, maybe he'll get turned on to that, and then five years be like, Coach, Jesus, I'm so glad it's got picked on the podcast, it made a difference. Let's see if we have time for another one here, Max Holiday says, understanding the thought process behind DC training, how beneficial would a two or three way split be for a guy over 50 from a gaining size slash muscle perspective, FYI, 40 plus years training with multiple DC cycles under my belt since 2008. Well, he kind of tells me his experience is better than mine. He can answer that question much better than I actually just like, right? That guess so. Like, you know, 40 plus years of training, I mean, he sounds kind of like me and he's understanding the thought process, how beneficial. So here, he's kind of the issue. I mean, Dante actually addressed this with his other, with the other split city puts for four guys who wanted to DC training, like the five way split. Some of that is for more advanced guys. This is one of the things that Jordan has kind of figured out to some degree is that, you know, he can't recover from the higher frequency. And one issue, too, is that the more advanced you get, the more you have to do in terms of training really hard and the proper amount of volume, order to make a given training session for a given muscle group and actual growth stimulus. So it may be the chance to put in so much on a particular day that you go into the gym for that muscle group to get anything that constitutes a real growth stimulus that you have to take more than two or three days off, which I think is, and I want to, I can't speak for Dante, obviously, about his guy, was the DC trainer for a while, but I think that's part of the reason, at least, why his other splits now are like five ways splits and those sorts of things. Okay. The other thing about doing DC training when you get older is the reps, it makes more sense for the rep range as to go up. I mean, he 40 years of training, I'm sure of max knows this. You're low back, you're joints, you're, you're, you're ten inch, you're connected to you. You know, there is an aging, like one of the esters, it's kind of an asylum, like one of the kind of main theories of aging with somebody's degree has to do with free radicals. Like you can take like, gospel of melanogester, like you can, that's a fancy work mosquito. And give them, make transgender animal models that have very few, that have, handle free radicals really well, and they live longer. So free radical stress is one thing that is involved with aging and free radical stress is not good for, for proteins in terms of their mechanical abilities to, withstand stress, which is the purpose of connected tissue proteins. So we get older and our things get more brittle, the stance of way of just saying that joints don't, I don't have what they used to have that get worn down, et cetera. So training, you know, trying to pull like, you know, six to eight rep range heavy loads doesn't make sense. And I say the same thing for fortitude training, you know, adjust all those things upward. I got things built into the system so that you don't train with those heavy loads. Okay. Because there's some, even with the loading sets, there's some fatigue, intentionally built into the rest intervals. So the loads have to be a little bit lighter than that true six to eight rep range. So you have to go lighter. I would suggest looking at some of it don't go on intense muscle. But maybe some things on professional muscle. Intense muscles get all dente's like major stuff and look for like the five way split. And, but max pretty much gave me the answer there, you know. So here's the thing, and dente is written about this extensively. And funny because Jordan's doing the same thing. I still remember Jordan's sight and I go and check in on him is training logs and just happen to look the other day. And he's doing some things to create novelty of stimulus because he has to where he does like some some pauses like he calls him a squeeze. So he's literally squeezing, which probably five years ago he would have laughed at himself for writing, but he's doing like sets of, I think he was doing sets of six with like a two second hole. Don't kidding. Yeah. Those are, when this is, this is heavy actually. Yeah. You're not picking up pink dumbbells here. Right. We're talking about moving mass of amounts of weight. But he's got, eventually you do, there is, like there is some logic to say, you're not going to find someone who's squatting, you know, Venus by, you know, squatting, standard, and satirons standing on Venus that, because they've gotten so strong, you know, that they're now a character from Marvel comic strip. You can only lift so much weight eventually, run out, but you can keep up in the anti. So, once you've gotten where you're doing 600 pounds squats with a good control rep tempo in a way that targets the muscles and the legs, which is what you do, if that's what you're doing it for. Now you start, you know, going down and doing like one second pauses in the hole. Yeah. We're not resting on the connection to shit of your knees, or you do slower descents, or if you're doing like a hand, you know, but some sort of biceps curl, you do as one second pause, something like that. That's what I have built into the fortitude training with the pump sets. So there's various variations. DC training has that flexibly built into it, because DC training is whatever Dante says, DC training is, and he's put those things out. I, in part, like, I hate to say this, but it's true. I've said it many times. As fortitude training was in part, created for me. So I could take those quintessential aspects of DC training, the high rep sets, like a widow maker, but lay off the nervous system. So don't make those drag on as discontinuous sets. And the heavy loading sets that are progressively overloaded, but you can't like, if you do, like, let's say you do three sets, let's say you're higher volume through your, you can use squats for your loading sets, and you've got a six to 12 rep range. Well, your first set is going to have one or two reps in the tank. So if you're in that rep range, you're an older guy. Well, you stay in that 10 to 12 rep range. But that's actually that's like a 14 rep max load. If you get 12 reps and you leave two reps in the tank, and you're at the top. And the next set, you're going to have to come down and load. You're still doing a set of 10, leaving one or two reps in the tank. But now you're using what would be if you did DC training or some other training system where you rest completely between those sets. Now you're using, you're using much less weight, but you're still training in that a higher rep range. And you can still progressively overload. So you're letting you load a little bit. You're not going to like with fancy weights, staying at the upper range of that heavy loading set, rep range. But you've got a little bit of tea built in there, a little bit of reps in reserve. You're being a little bit easier on the nervous system, which doesn't recover quite the same. So you're taking care of your your skeletal system, trying to tax the muscular system, and lay off the nervous system, the endocrine system, the immune system as much as possible. Yeah. I built for you training kind of like because I had that kind of same question. It's like how can I continue doing all the shit that I love about DC training as long as possible in the whole story we've gone through a million times. But so I'm not, I'm not against someone making their own hybrid. You know, he's been at it for 40 years. He's done multiple DC training. If he hasn't tried to for you to train, give that a go. The weights are written for a couple of last. And then he might be like, you know, I like the muscle rounds, better than rest faucets. I like the pump sets better than widow makers, you know, but I don't like, I like, you know, the way DC does, you know, the upper lower three times a week. Oh, he did do it that way. He added, uh, was thinking more from a hormone aspect, taking TRT. This is max. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, going back to that initial question. So if I'd play that, understanding the thought process behind DC training, how beneficial would it to wear three ways split before a guy over 50 with gaining muscle size? Uh, so. So, so yeah. So there's age and there's hormonal status. Maddie or any. Yeah. So he's, sounds like he's on TRT then. Yeah. So maybe he wasn't previously. Don't care. That's had lots, lots of guys who were natural. Okay. That was one of the things people said, oh, you can't do this unless you're at hands. And it's like, oh, you can't. You certainly can. I don't know. People say the same thing about hit training. Like, oh, it only worked for the guys that were taking a Tata gear. Yeah. I mean, that, I don't know the hit training. I'm, there's something to say for that argument. I think more so because we know just for instance, from the, the Bosnst study, where they, you know, there's a, there's a, there's a, the classic study that you 500, 600 milligrams of testosterone per week. They have four groups, college age guys, training and no training and then, test testosterone, placebo. Okay. And the, no training to testosterone grew as much as the, the training, no placebo. Uh, essentially. So, okay. You're in a, itself, can make you grow. The bottom line comes from that. So, yes, you can do a training program that's, fast and I, for whatever reason, and some people might consider an HHH, training program where you train once every three weeks with one set, ass and I and I'm not saying it is or it isn't. But if you have, you could have a very much sub optimal training regime and still get growth by putting in lots of gear. Yeah. Okay. We can say that. So that's why, but I don't, but DC training is not a sub optimal training program. Yeah. It's brutal training program. And there's no ifs and there's about to be honest in my mind, unless, unless you just go from pristine form to like floppy, biggest asshole in the gym form, if you've gone from 225 pound press to 315 pound presses and 315 and 365 pound squats to 495 pound squats and pulling 405 to pulling 585 over the course of two years. Yeah. All the things being relatively equal, you're going to be bigger dude. Yeah. That means it's to me. Within what your genetics allow, gear or not, right. Yeah. You know, so DC training is relies upon that. And there's just like there's a logic to that, which is just so exquisite and so beautiful. You know, that that is not, not beautiful unless you're willing to do the kind of things that, you know, hopefully people see that video of you doing what you dig in and you say, okay, it's, it's me versus gravity who's going to be the bitch today. And you make, you make gravity, you know, your bitch for a couple minutes. Right. Right. You're like, you know, into like, into like, yeah, yeah, you just keep on doing that. Like, you know, methodical like keep grinding away sort of way and you're going to get stronger when you get bigger. Even if it's just 5% of 5% increase in muscle mass for a, this is where I came with that 9 pound, 9% when I met 69 pounds, 5% increase in muscle mass for a guy who's like 22240 is, you know, is over, it's like 10 pounds. Yeah. Of muscle mass. That's a shit load. Yeah. I could tell that I'm gaining too. That's the other thing. The reason I'm doing it is. We're commenting, like, did you look? Yeah. Yeah. I'll take it. And that's, so here's the thing is that I've been, I've been, I've been. I've been doing this for a long time, you know, I've been lifting weights for a long time. And the last couple of years I hadn't been eating as much, you know, I hadn't been pushing to grow. But it's, it's, I still have the experience. I, and I can tell you that I realized that I was being limited, it wasn't limited by the drugs. It wasn't limited by the food that it was my training was, when I put all the pieces together, the training was subpar. And that's, I think, that was the thing that really needed to change. And now I think that that's been the factor that's helping. So, and now I'm adding the gear to it too, because with this week I added 100 milligrams of mint, the trust alone acetate. All right. Excuse me. The long acting trust load and in fact. It's interesting. Well, a bench to see, because there's Victor Blacks just put a post I saw that. Yeah. Did you see my response? No, I didn't see your response. I've just put up a response last night, because I think he had, I still agree with his general point for some people, not always that meant canter can be good or bad. Who like its hit or miss? Yeah. Some people don't like it, but anyway, you can hear my response. I broke down. He didn't put the actual citations that he was drawing from in that post and I dug them up and sort of extrapolated the mass and people can go and look that up if they want. But the bottom line was that the study looking at a patotoxicity was in rabbits. Okay. Not in humans. Okay. I can't say that back down. There was really no apato-tacocicity given the measures they had in the human equivalent dose of like 200 milligrams of meant per week. Okay. But that's, you know, that's translating, assuming that the way the liver handle those things in rabbits versus humans obeys that general, which is a body surface area based translation. But it's the best we have. A bunch of assumptions and you could follow along, but it's interesting that you mentioned meant because that was just really what happened before came on here. I posted something on that thread. I'll come up. Yeah. I'll have to check that out then. I'll tell you what, so just with 100 milligrams, I think that that's one weekend now. I think that that's been part of, obviously, I've lead the foundation. You know, I've learned how to train right. You know, to get the most out of what I'm doing. And it's like now I'm turning up the gas on it. So I think that that's definitely, I think it's already increased my strength for sure. And let me add one thing too related to Max's that I want to just kind of say is that if you're progressively over progressive or look at happening those more subtle ways, we talk about Jordan doing the holes and those sorts of things, but simply lightning the load. If you're trained in the 12 to 12 to 15 rep range or the 10 to 12 rep range versus the 68, which you may have done, you know, back in the day. And you're doing sets of 10 with the 115 or 120 to whatever they actually are. And you stick with those sets of 10. If you were doing sets of 15 and you also progressed, you know, from 100 pounds to 120 pounds or sets of 15 and you progressed from 10 reps with 115 to the 125s over the same period of time, you're going to make gains with both of those. You might be some subtle differences, maybe some people getting better with heavy versus lighter, but if you're making gains, it's still going to translate all of the things being equal keeping the form the same, the sort of thing. So training lighter and adjusting the loads relative to what your skeletal system can handle because you're, you know, you're 50 and you're on TRT and dropping the volume down, it's going to be one thing probably that may or may not have to happen. There's a catch, there's interesting paradox there because if, if you're enhanced, you're going to use heavier loads could just stronger and you'll be 10 to be bigger, which is more taxing and versus if your TRT or natural lighter loads, less taxing because of that. So it could be that the amount of recovery that you're getting from the gear is just, it's just matching the taxation that comes from being able to train so much heavier. Yeah, right. In a way that it basically doesn't have that gigantic of an effect on training volume. Yeah, right. So the guy who's squatting 600 may be able to get away with, you know, five sets a week, but the guy who squats three or five team may only be able to get away with five sets a week as well. They're both trained, he's hard as they possibly can, one guy's enhanced, that's why you can do that. Yeah. But he also has greater inroads to cover from. So DC training works for Natties and works for, works for guys who are in the hands. Just got to progress. Right. All right. Be smart. Well, let's get out of here. You covered a lot. Guys, we'll, we'll try to hold onto these questions and if you're interested, we'll, we'll cover them the next time we get together. And I have to say I'm sorry. I have, I have all those ones from Instagram and those people. I didn't get to any of those. Then we'll think. No, we could do another one if we want, if we want to try to come back and just not go to Q&A or something sometime before the next episode. You know, if you have the type, let me know. I'd be happy to do that. Okay. Yeah. No, because you got to, you got to roll. But yeah, we can maybe do another one. Maybe I'll do an Instagram Q&A. There you go. Just do that. Yeah. I can do that. All right. Guys. Well, for another episode of Muscle Mind to Scott Stevenson, I'm Scott McNally. Of course, check out our great sponsor Truenutrition.com. And you can use our code advices. You'll get some additional savings on that plus you support our podcast. And you support great company too. All your stuff is third party tested. High quality supplements. And of course, go to b-y-o-b-b-coach.com. You could check out Dr. Scott's book there. And of course, go to fortitude training. That, all the fortitude training stuff we're talking about today. All right, guys. We'll see you soon. Thanks, Scott. All right. Thanks, guys.

Hey, what's up guys? Welcome back to Muslimines with Scott Stephenson. I'm Scott McNally. Today, we discuss PD science that you should know. So we talk about some of the studies behind steroids and growth hormone. And if you guys have any questions about this stuff, then comment below. We'll tackle that stuff on the next program. If you learned something today, then show us some love, hit the like button, and be sure to subscribe so you can keep up to date. We have a lot of bodybuilding education here, and the more you learn, the better you could be at bodybuilding. Thank you to our generous sponsor, True Nutrition.com for supporting everything we do. All right, guys. Let's get to Scott. Well, this is the kind of, it's a three-part, hundredth episode. So it's the hundred second technically. But this is, uh, I kind of waited to the end. I wanted to get to you the, what I think is sort of the more important stuff. You know, it's a training nutrition. This is the stuff that everyone seems to love because it's thought of sort of as a magic bullet. Part of what I'm going to talk about mainly is just, and there are a couple specific studies that I'm going to go through. And some also some general information on bodybuilding, PEDs, kind of with the idea to, to at least make people aware of how much variability there is there in terms of responses to drugs in various ways. So some of this is sort of a genetic space thing. And some of the things we don't really know that people seem to sort of presume right off the bat related to, to gear and growth hormone. Those are just the two that I decide to pick because we'll have so much time. So with that, let's just, we'll just dig in. Well, it will be self-explanatory as we move along. All right, sounds good, man. We're going to that next slide. Yep, please. All right. Let's see. All right. And then where do you want to off to the right? Can we be on top one another? Or is it have to be? It's side by side. Okay, that's okay. That'll be fine for now for the, so this is the classic sort of, what a classic study. People refer to it all the time rightfully so because it's a great study. Shullinger Bosn in this study, believe they're washing it at the time. That's how you know it's authentic on the dog's bark. It was done in 96. So it was 25 years ago now. And they did the type of thing. It's sort of, there would be, it would be a hard press to rationalize or a peeing this kind of study because what they did was gave super, super physiological levels amounts of testosterone in and theta in this case to college age males who are you going at all? No prior mental history of psychological disorders, what have it? They screened them pretty well. The values are published in this paper from 1996. If anyone wants these references, no one's ever asked, but if everyone wants somebody can provide them, this one's pretty easy to find and pop straight up. They got their test levels to about the 3000 nanograms for desolater. No, well, with the 600. Yeah, so it's pretty high. That's about what you might expect on average. So that's one source where people kind of come up with that sort of rule of thumb as far as what 100 milligrams are testosterone would equal to. So maybe 100 milligrams being about the value of 500 nanograms for desolater. So you go to six times that and you're about 6000 or 3000. So six times 500 is 3000. So here's what they did for groups. And this was a really well-done study. They did two groups that didn't train and two groups that did for 10 weeks. And within the non-training group, they had a purplicebo. So they injected them with something that was inert. And then they gave them the 600 milligrams per week. And then the training groups, they had a placebo-trained group. They did the actual regul training. So they had the nanny training group. And then they had the super supplemented training group. And so what they found, basically, and this is where people will say that you can grow with gear just as well as just training. At least over 10 weeks. What I have there in the middle of the slide are the bar graphs showing the changes in fat-free mass across these four groups. So look at the very bottom that you'll see the first two are the no exercise groups, the leftmost being placebo. And then the next over being testosterone. So if you look up to the top there at fat-free mass, you'll see that as you would expect, placebo no exercise, you didn't see it change in fat-free mass. They just didn't do anything. There's no essential intervention other than coming in to get a fake shot. Yeah. But the group that was given testosterone increased their fat-free mass by it was two and a half. Maybe actually, I think it was 3.1 or 3.2 kilos. Over those 10 weeks. No training. So that's like, three point, no. That's like over, seven pounds. Okay, seven pounds. Roughly seven pounds. Seven pounds of lean takes you seven pounds. Yeah. Doing nothing. Taking a test shot test. They use underwater weighing with this. So it's not, this is 96, remember. So people weren't using dex at that point. Some were, most certainly. There was, they were doing dex inference in procedure where I was because I was, you know, I went to that lab and we used that actually in a lab that I took in grad school. So in this case, they just used that. So there's some issues there potentially with water. We'll go into the body composition thing. You actually, it's possible. We may have actually underestimated that. If there was a bunch of water retention. But substantial. Yeah. And if you look, then keep reading from left to right in that top set of bar plots. There's a placebo group that trained. And they had a significant increase in fat-free mass as well. You can see numerically, there's a little bit less, actually. But statistically, it was not. So there's a lot of variability there, of course. So substantial variability. But as you would have expected, you looked at the far right. So the upper right corner there, you see the greatest impact on fat-free mass came from those who both trained and got the 600 milligrams of testosterone, not that per week. So basically, we've got doing nothing, no drugs, no change. Don't the fat-free mass you're getting an increase with the chest of drugs, or chest of training. And you're getting close to double that if you combine the two, training with drugs. So the next two set of bar plots, bar plots are triceps, cross-sectional area, and quadrups cross-sectional area. Same kind of pattern. Interestingly enough, there was an increase in triceps size in the drug-only group with no training that they didn't see in the exercise group. So there arms didn't really grow there. And almost the same increase in triceps size in when they trained and were given the testosterone. So that's a little interesting pattern. The pattern you see with quads, with the legs, matches very well with what you saw overall with a fat-free mass. So training without drugs and drugs only about the same increase in quad size. And double that if you combine. So we're seeing the sort of pattern. You're getting something with the drugs only. You're getting some of the training only over 10 weeks. And you're getting about double that when you combine the two. The bottom two are strength during a squat and a bench press. Same pattern there. So there actually was a strength gain from chest the gear with no training. So here's the interesting thing. They did mood and behavior analysis. There was no change in mood. None of the things from those psychometric tests. There were no changes brought on by the gear. Nothing was changing across really, across any of the groups. So they weren't getting angry. One aspect of the test that they use was sort of an anger analysis to sort of test out the road rage component. Yeah. The thing that I don't see mentioned very often, which I think many, this is sort of the, let's combine what happens in the trenches with what the research says. What happens, can you imagine what happens if you take a college age male, these were you going out? So they had normal testosterone levels. And you start giving them 600 milligrams of testosterone a week. How are they going to feel? You want to eat shit? Yeah, exactly. That's what you're going to eat. One thing is no. Yes. They're going to know what they're on. Yeah. Yeah. They're going to know what they're on. So who knows? Like some, it's possible. Some of those, and I don't think they, they didn't put an ankle bracelet on them to, an ankle it to track them all the time. Actually they didn't go in the gym. But I wonder thinking now specifically of those strength gains, if some of that is a placebo effect potentially. Because it would have been pretty clear to them. They know from the weight gain, probably. That's a substantial weight gain. There was no change in body fat percentage. I don't know if they had the actual weight, but they had obviously the fat free match that they reported. So hard to know, the nice thing, of course, no impact on those negative psychometric measurements of anger and general behavior. But they didn't have a sex drive. I don't believe there was a component of sex drive, a libido in their psychometric analysis either. So that's something to consider. So if you can slide us to the left of smidge, so we can see the text there. So what was the short term? A, S, and a bulk intertext there. It's just a stoster in this case. It was a prox roughly equivalent to natty train, basically. It's kind of the bottom line as you're getting about the same in this particular study, in this context, with these individuals. So here's the thing. Let's think about, like, how well can we extend these? And this is an external validity concept. That's true over 10 weeks. What happens if we looked over the next two years? If there were no training and the same amount of testosterone, that would be a continuous similar stimulus for muscle growth, which obviously, that we're getting demonstration of here in this study. But it wouldn't be changing. Would they continue to grow, pass those 10 weeks, would they continue to gain strength in that way? You can double your strength in two years of training. I doubt they would have doubled their strength just staying on that testosterone dose. Because, guess what? There would have been no progression in the stimulus. That's what we do with training. And, of course, food, et cetera. There's a progressive overload component there. So for folks to take this study, and this is what has sort of implied and suggested, and say that testosterone or gear is equivalent to training, generally speaking, over the long haul, over the course of many years, is doesn't match with what can be concluded and inferred from this particular study, because this was a 10-week study. This is not a one year or two year study, where they had them training. Eventually, the natty training would have superseded what happened in those 10 weeks, which I imagine were plateauing about the time at the end of the study. 10 weeks is a nice time to give the drug and effect to accrue that fat remas, et cetera. The strength gains. We'll talk about placebo here at the very end, of course, one of my favorite topics. But the strength gains, I imagine those would have also plateaued. If those are those come from fat-free mass or muscle mass, that makes sense to be a little bit stronger. But we know, I've talked about this, not in this three-part series, but previously, I've talked about studies that demonstrate specificity of training where they actually have, and this was a folks might remember, this was maybe, this is the last year I think, did a study where they trained with the squat, and showed like, I think a 60% increase in squat strength, and about a 10% increase in quad cross-sectional area, the strength gains on a leg press, which is a similar movement that's a compound, pressing movement, you're using the hips and the knees, ankles, you're using all the muscles of the lower extremity to drive the weight. The strength gains were cut in half, not nearly, it wasn't exactly a squat, but similar, and then when they took those individuals, had bigger muscles, 10% greater quad cross-sectional area, and tested them on any extension, there was no increase in size, and strength is excuse me. No increase in strength. Yeah, remember that, right? That was crazy. Yeah, it was kind of wacky. So more muscle doesn't necessarily mean more strength, in this case, one would presume that the muscle was contributing to strength, it doesn't make sense. These aren't gigantic changes in strength or size yet. But it's very possible that they're still a placebo effect that play there, in my mind at least, given what I know would happen to someone who's also didn't give in six times normal testosterone levels. And even if it's not affecting them in the same way, as it would initially, after that first shot, they're out on the prowler, they're going to every night club, within walking distance, and that may have faded over the course of those 10 weeks, they still know what they're getting. If they figured it out because they've got something in their sex-drivaled veto that's changed substantially, which is very, very likely. So that's sort of a weakness there. So the obvious take home two here is that the gains from both training and the gear were basically double of what you got from either of those alone. And that makes sense. We know that that's why people use steroids. Took a while, figured that out. This study was important because the action to American College of Sports Medicine is sort of as notorious review statement, a position stand on antibiotics, steroids, and sport, where they suggested based on the literature that was available at the time, that there was no impact on strength or muscle mass. That was the basic conclusion. Until eventually enough information came forth to demonstrate that. Some of those studies, they weren't well controlled, they're just anecdotal, cross-sectional, that sort of thing. So anyway, we obviously know this is a good study to demonstrate that gear does amplify the gains that you'll get both in muscle mass and strength from weight training. So this is the Boston study. So people say the gear works alone, yes, on the short term, it's not a long term study. So it's very informative, standard classic study, definitely worth knowing this is the one a figure people be interested in. Let's hit the next slide here. We're gonna dig in a little bit more. So you can put us on the very perfect. Excellent, cool. So you'll see if you go and look online, you'll see the half-life charts for all the gear. You'll see the list everywhere, they're copied and pasted, copied and pasted. Rarely will you find a citation or a source for that information, but it's just regurgitated because you can Google it and find it there. Well, here's the thing. The side from going into each one of those drugs and trying to look at the information sources for that. We do know, and it's been a theme for the things that I talk about here, is that there's tons of variability across individuals. So that's a huge point. But first and foremost, actually there's tons of there can be substantial variability at least, depending on how the drug is formulated and where the drug is administered, how it's administered. That's right. I got to tell you, because we've heard for guys who have watched or listened to the show for a long time. This is something we talked about maybe a couple of years ago now. And this for me was a game changer. This topic right here was a game changer and understanding the way these drugs work. So this, yeah, this one, the Minco at Alstad, which was in the upper left there, was pretty cool. So they used Nandrolone Estrus, the Fimo proponate, so NPP, and then decanoate. And there's a bunch of four plots. There was 100 milligrams per injection each time. So we'll look at the top one is NPP and that was ejected into the glue. In this case, that was a four mill injection. So that's not, so you wouldn't typically find a 25 milligrams per mill. I don't think I've ever seen her anyone talking about that kind of an injection. But they did that interesting enough that it would have been nice to think it had a one mill that was also 100 milligrams per mill. Just compare, but they didn't do that. So we'll kind of like, the one thing you can see there, obviously, is still 100 milligrams, which you're getting a much higher peak. And in this case, Fimo proponate is supposed to be pretty fast. It's elevated a good bit, even five days afterwards. So that's sort of interesting. So this idea of a half life is something that can be calculated, but the half life doesn't necessarily tell you how the curve of blood levels looks. In this case, you see it drops down there after about day four pretty quickly, but it's really elevated for four days. So if you inject, I'm sorry, go ahead. It's a phenoproponate. The top one is a phenoproponate, but it's okay. But it's actually got 25 milligrams per mill formulation. Because they gave a four mill injection. OK, I just wanted to say too, because I know one of the things we had had looking at these charts and graphs on the previous episode since there, you know, a lot of our audience still is audio listeners. I just want to say, looking at that line, I'm saying, like a really sharp peak in that, that would be in the first day, right? Scott and it looks like it reaches its peak when it hits the one. So that would be what 24 hours after the shot. And then from there, it's a gradual drop off. And then by day five, it's still there. I mean, it's coming down at maybe a 45 degree angle, but there still is, I mean, it's still there five days later. The peak is over twice as high as for the Nandrelone Deccanoi, any of the formulations that they compared it. Yeah. It's what's substantial. The other thing to consider too, this is 100 milligrams of the gear of the substance. The phenopropinate has the phenopropi, propionic acid is much smaller. So it contributes less to the total weight of the molecule. Nandrelone phenopropinate, because the Deccanoi is a larger molecule. 10 carbons, long I believe, as the name suggests. So a larger percentage of that 100 milligrams is actually anandrolone more in the case. Less, yes, sir, weight per one. So your 100 milligrams is going to be a percentage of the aster, whatever that is for each different drug, and then a percentage of the actual drug. So it's going to be a lot higher there. That makes sense. Yeah. So that's part of why what's going on there. And well, I guess I can transition to this, because this is a question. This came up on the podcast with Dave, where you guys covered Android, that was the topic there. Yeah. Oh, generally, there are several studies that have demonstrated this. It's seen in animals. It's the generally supported, understood way, in which the basic understanding of pharmacokinetics, what the body does to the drug, or what happens to the drug in the body, as it's making its way through its path before and on the way to interacting in this case with the energy and receptor, is that the main reason why we have these different esters, the main reason why they have different half-lives is because the residents of the drug in the body, at least as the active drug, not a metabolite that's been broken down. But the residents of Nandolone, it's a stostrone, or whatever, and a block steroid has an esterified fatty acid on it, is dependent upon the length of that fatty acid, the size of that molecule, which basically is anchors it to its lipophilics, so it's like a fatty acid anchor that keeps it in the depot in the carrier oil, which is the next thing we'll talk about in a bit. And also would keep it anchored to any fatty substances that it might come in contact with. So in large part, what you have, if you have a long esterified fatty, it's like a decanoate, that is anchoring that Nandolone in this case, to the depot, which has been injected for a longer period of time, so it leaves there very, very, very slowly. The phenopropionate or an acetate or a propionate, those are smaller molecules. And so they don't hold as tightly, they're not as lipo-philically attracted to the depot site, and they come out much more rapidly. From there, there are esterases in the blood, and in the liver, we'll talk about that. And those cleave that esterified fatty acid, the enynthate, the sippinate, the decanoate, whatever it might be, really relatively rapidly, in a matter of hours. So the half-lace depended upon the length of the ester. Once it gets out into the blood and can interact with an esterase that breaks down the ester, you've got a free, hormone molecule that can go about its business. It might be bound up by SHBG, so we'll bind to an angere receptor. Some things we'll talk about in the next slide. But it's the length of that, so it's a very slow process to be released from the depot, and then once it's out, the body can metabolize it with those esterases, and it can go about being five-off reduced, so that's possible or romanticize, so that's possible. So that's the basic understanding, and that's why there's so many different esters, because that changes that very major component, the half-lace, essentially, of the drug. So here's the interesting thing, too. So look at these bottom and the folks at home can't see these, but what they did was a, they did several different injections, which kind of take a look at two of them. The two that are one milliliter injections, so that's 100 milligrams from mill, one mill injections. And if you look at the area under the curve, which would be if the folks can see this, this is the top squares. Sorry, the top circles are for the glute, and it's so small on my screen, hopefully you can see it, folks can see it is better at home. The top service for the glute shows substantially larger area under the curve. So same injection, one mill, 100 milligrams, and you're getting a substantially larger area of the curve in terms of the mandrelone, compared to if that same injection were put in the deltoid. So something about the way in which that hormone has residents in the glute muscle versus the delt muscle, which is probably a function of activity of those muscles during the day, changes the half life. My guess is most people, and these are with people who aren't training what have you, training is probably gonna change this. Most people are picking things up and moving their arms around, their delts are constantly being used. You might use your glute, if it's like, if you get a really bad glute shot, it might bother you for a long time, but if you get a bad delt shot, it's bothering you all the time, like constantly. Of course. So you're using that one a good bit more. So that mandrelone, decanoate in this case is gonna leave more rapidly, and then be it, connect with those esterases, be broken down. So you're gonna have a more rapid metabolism because it's not staying in that depot is long. So that's gonna change that area of the curve. So where you put the injection, makes a huge difference, a substantial difference here. In the case, and this is even for deca, which is supposed to be a nice, slow steady release. So that's one thing that changes how much drug is essentially delivered at airing to the curve dramatically. And that's just the same drug, same formulation, everything's the same, just changing the muscle, makes a big difference. So for people who are concerned with having some problems in some way shape or form, or notice differences across their weak, if they're rotating injection sites, they could be also rotating the half-life in the area of the end of the curve. And essentially the effectiveness of their drug, not that it's a bad idea to rotate injection sites, put everything the same spot you could run into problems too. But variability in the drugs actions is gonna come from varying the injection site as well. So that's worth knowing. It's interesting. So yeah, it is something so. The next slide down shows, this case they use 100, sorry, 1,000 milligrams of testosterone undecanoate, which is a really long acting. You can see the days go out there too. They're literally in weeks, 7, 14, 21 days. And they use different carrier oils. They use a GC-toil for one-one case and they use the castroil in the other. So the GC-toil is the upper plot. And you see about, it's about, it's actually about a 50% increase in area into the curve, just because of the carrier oil that's used there. That's gonna affect the release pattern from the depot. So if, for instance, imagine someone who's undergoing physician prescribed to ERT and they change from, or someone who's getting there, they're scripted testosterone from particular clinic, the compounds that for them, and they decide, well, I'm gonna just say myself some money and go with an underground source or another pharmacy or what they go across the board of Mexico, whatever it might be. If the carrier oils are changing, that's gonna change the effectiveness of the drug. The half-wise were different. And here's an interesting one too, because the TC-toil had about a 50% area into the curve. So that's more action of the drug. But the half-life of the Castro oil was 34 days, versus 20-jude days for the TC-toil. And that's, you've got a lower, for Castro, you've got a lower overall area of the curve, smaller, and that meant that it changes, it has a smaller peak, and it changes relatively more so where it's halfway gone, basically, the half-life. So you think, well, that's longer acting, it's like, well, if you look at those two plots and Scott, you can see this, anyone's watching this on YouTube can see this. The TC-toil has higher blood levels after the first, actually, the entire time. Yeah, it does, doesn't it? So you get out like, does the seven-week point? Finally at the eight-week point, there's a difference. So for the first, gosh, essentially, the entirety of two months, you've got more, what higher blood levels, in this case, of testosterone from the carrier oil, that was the TC-toil versus the caster? Am I right here that with the, so it's the TC-toil, first of all, that's the one, that's the high one, first of all, right? The high one, yep. Okay, so what I'm seeing is it starts out higher than the caster oil, but then somewhere around maybe, like, day five, it looks like it, it rockets up and blood concentrations, yeah, much higher. There's a, there's a, it really takes off and maintains that through like day 14, before it then kind of comes back down and follows along just slightly higher than the caster oil. And then at the end, it looks like it does drop off with a little bit faster too. But that's, that's at eight weeks. Yeah, the very, very, very. Oh yeah, yeah, and there's still that dotted line there is what's considered a normal U-go-an-at-a-level. Okay, okay. So like at the eight-week point, they're just dipping down and there's still higher than where they were at the start. These were high-pulled gonaddle men, within the study. But here's the thing though, the guys who got the TC-toil are gonna have, I mean, the area under the curb is 50% greater. So that's basically all other things being equal, like getting 50% more drug, it's like getting a 1500-milogram versus a thousand-milogram shot in terms of the area in the curve. And that would be especially noticeable in those first two weeks. When they're probably at least 21 versus 30, yeah, 20, there about 50% higher for week one and two, and then finally week three, they're coming closer, but they're still a higher amount, all the way out to the point where they would then get another injection. Now, I'm not familiar with TC-toil. I wonder what the viscosity is of that versus castor oil. I know that a lot of the UGL people they've been leaning toward, like really thin, as they call it, smooth, shots. Right. And that they're going to like a lot of MCT oils, EO, these carriers that are super, super thin, I wonder, that'd be curious to know, like what the viscosity was between those two oils and does that have an effect? I understand that's not part of the study here, but I'd be interested. Right. Yeah, I mean, castor was very thick. Yeah, that's what I thought. And so part of the thing, and this information's probably there, I'll go and dig and look, I've looked at this, it's been a while now, but I'll go read dig in there and sometimes you find the little rabbit hole, you can happen to find the needle in the haystack like that, there it is, and you go down, but what's going to be important is the viscosity. So like if an oil is very fluid, of course it's going to generally just leave the depot site in of itself. And with it it's going to carry, as the carrier oil, it's going to carry the drug too, and it's going to free it. Whereas a really viscous oil, like in castures known for that, it's going to stay there, more informal lump being that area for longer, just as an oil depot wood, that's kind of the idea. So there's that, but there's also the extent to which the fatty acids in that carrier oil are holding and forming the bonds, the lepophilic bonds that they do with the esterified fatty acid, whatever is esterified to the molecule. So there's a, there's a lepophilicity, fats-attract fats, water-tracts water, fats are hydrophobic, water is lipophobic, fats are lipophilic, they like one another. So the fats are pulled to one another. And the type of fatty acids and fats in the carrier oil are going to alter both of viscosity, as well as the extent to which they interact with that esterified fatty acid or a stratified fatty molecule. So that's going to, and there may be some differences there. This viscosity may not, I don't know this for sure, this could be easily answered. This is going to depend on what compounds you have and that attraction to the fatty acid in there. And the viscosity is going to change things too. So there's at least two factors there. That could be at work simultaneously. OK. So but anyway, substantial difference just for the carrier oil. So that's worth, I mean, I don't know, a smart, like you don't, it's not like an open market where you have competition. But a smart compounder, a smart seller of such substances, might dig in and do, I use the carrier oil that gives you the highest area under the curve. The greatest bang for your buck. Sure, that's a lot of shit. Yeah, how much substance you're using. It's going to be cheaper that way because you're using less of the active ingredient, potentially, or at least you can sell more potentially, because you've got greater impact from a given amount of the active steroid that you got in your product. So that's big. So imagine if someone's got different sources and you hear people all the time, changing sources and running an issue. Some of it's to really things that kind of stuff, but things will change. And it may not even be that a certain kind of a certain brand or a certain source is under dose per se. It may be a function of the carrier oil. That's what I was thinking of. So much of it's great. Yeah, that's what I was thinking is one guy may have a carrier oil that produces those much higher results. And then you start thinking, oh, that's much better product as a result. Or so-and-so is test is great, but they're anandre-loin socks. Let's say, so that could be a function of the interaction between the carrier oil that they use universally and all their products. And the terrified fatty acid for the different anoboxteroids. So appropriate anandre-loin folicity or the lipofluicive of propinate with a given carrier oil may very, very different than the lipofluicity of a decanoate with that carrier oil. So I should the decanoate doesn't give you a great a whole out of bang for the buck whereas the propane does, but say. So there's lots of things, you know? And that I haven't seen, maybe there's information that is somewhere in like patents and that sort of thing. It's very possible. But it seems likely to me that the carrier oil could be potentially matched with the terrified fatty acid or fatty molecule in a way that gives you the most area of the curve for a given dose. So that's another sort of, eh? We don't know, but there's definitely something going on there at least from these data. So let's slide us back off to the left there so we can see what's on the right side. So this is one from my talk. I give this one, and I give the talk. Why you don't look like a pro? Yes. I think so. So this is, yeah, you have. So this is comparison of individuals with different genes, a different genotype for the esterace in particular, the phosphodiester A7B, which is located in the liver, which cleaves away, in this case, the enhanthic acid of testosterone enhanthate, freeing up the testosterone. And these are blood measurements at the beginning before, and then two days after a 500-millimeter injection. And what you have on the left there are those individuals who are homozygous GG. Those are the two genes. They have two genes for this particular enzyme. And those are the lottery losers, so to speak, because individuals who have one are both A genes for this phosphodiester A7B are depicted on the right. You can see the baseline levels of testosterone, the black bars, dead on the same. There's no difference there. And that would make sense, because your body isn't making a sterified testosterone. It's just making a testosterone. But when you have to metabolize the drug and cleave away a better serified enhanthate, the activity of this enzyme also impacts what you end up with in the blood. And this case, two days later, which is about when you see the peak with the testosterone enhanthate, it actually peaks relatively rapidly. Half life might be on the order of seven days, which people typically say. But it has a peak early on. Those individuals with the aging, either one or two of them, have about a 60% greater elevation of testosterone after a 500-milligram testosterone, you know, at eight shot. So that's like, one guy does 500, who is the lottery loser and the lottery winner, gets an extra 60%. That's like he gets to do like 800, basically. He gets a better, he gets a better bang for the buck, the higher elevation of a testosterone, simply because of that one enzyme that's involved with all of this. So the bottom line from all of these is that the pharmacokinetics for these injectable endoboxterids are a matter of the volume that's used. So is it diluted? Is it highly concentrated? The site of injection, or do you put it in your delt, or your quad, or your glute, or what happened to your lat? What have you? Cariole that's used, and there's possibly some interaction with the curial, with the actual, a terrified fatty acid. So the curial might be best for one drug, but not so good for the other. Another, the genetics that you have for the fatty acid removal, this phosphorysterex7B, and at least in the liver. And then there's all the other things that are involved. So one way in which you can remove steroids is to add a glucose, moody to them, a gluconorocoronidation is what it's called. There's variations, the arginetically, there's variations, SHBG levels, which we know serum hormone binding lobe, those bind up, binds up the gear in your system. There's genetics, variation, the genetics for aromatase. That's a function of age and body fat as well. Whole bunch of other things. And then the one thing that we don't, I've really been able to find any data on, is that the half-life measurements that you see in the half-life studies that are out there, that I'm aware of, just take individuals who are essentially naive to steroids. They give them one injection, a singular injection, and they follow the elevations in blood level and do the calculations for the max concentration, the half-life, et cetera, et cetera. That's a singular injection. We know that your body adapts to things, right? That's, you know, your body learns it up regulates the enzymes that are metabolizing xenobiotics, things like drugs, pallins, things that are normally supposed to be in your body that you wouldn't want that are considered foreigners. The esterase is absolutely upregulate in response to various things. So that half-life may change the first, versus the fifth, the sixth, the tenth, the 20th injection down the road. So that's changing and the extent to which that changes is probably going to vary across individuals too. So if you think of all of that, it makes you think, well, can we even predict this stuff? Well, to some degree, we know that, you know, decanoates going to be longer than propinate, or acetate, you know, it's going to really argue that. But how those things change and how much they vary you versus your body. This is not to mention the whole aspect of to what extent is the drug actually having effect on you. This is just what's going on with the drug that makes its way in route to the skeletal muscle cells and route to the end of the receptor. So this is just the path to the front gate of the city can vary tremendously. So this is worth knowing. So if someone's making an assumption like, well, I should be fine. Like, I'm doing much testosterone. A lot of doctors do this. Doing a much testosterone once a week. ENA and Thates got a half-life of seven days. I should be good to go. And they keep feeling like shit, you know, five days after their injection. It could be, they could be quote unquote a wrap of metabolizer, which can evolve a number of the things that I mentioned there in the slide. So this is worth knowing. Absolutely. No. I think at least. It's a lesson. Yeah. I'm just going to say, and it explains a lot. I mean, as a coach, I work with a lot of guys that are on TRT. So over the last decade, I can literally say, I've seen hundreds, if not thousands of people that are on TRT and that their levels are, they vary so much. One guy that does great with 100 milligrams per week. Another guy that he gets on TRT, I'm thinking of one guy in particular, I'm sure he's watching or listening to this right now, that he's at 300. The doctor's got him at 300. And that's just to keep him at like 500 on his test levels. It's like, what his body requires to make that. I love this because we know that stuff. If you've been in bodybuilding, you recognize that everybody is unique but to have an explanation for it or to see it on paper like this helps a lot. Right. And you know, this he, this he do his own shots or the end is delving. This includes. Believe it does glutes. Okay. So, you know, there could be, that's not a bad, a bad choice from what we're seeing here. But I wonder if you went with a different pharmacy with a different cariole that might change something. You never know, you know? Yeah. Number of the things. So, we can slide us to the bottom right there. All right. There we go. So, this is a little bit, sorry, this is so messy. But this is sort of an interesting, this is kind of the brain, brain candy slide of the slide here. Okay. So, people will look at anrogen binding as an indicator like to what extent is the anrogen binding to the anrogen receptor. That's kind of like, that's where the magic happens, right? That's the whole point is to get the anrogen to bind to the anrogen receptor. So, you can turn on the genes that lead to larger muscles, essentially. Of course, it's doing things throughout the body and all the tissues that express anrogen receptors, which is basically everything. So, but the thing that's interesting about these studies is you have to take a little bit closer look at how they came up, how they, the model that they used to test the different anrogen receptor binding. And I've got two studies here. We can leave us there, but the study on the right is with just anrogen receptors and humans. And that's where they literally have created a system where they've just got the anrogen receptors. There's nothing else in the way. They're just a medium there and they can test the binding in the way that they do that. Whereas on the left, this is a Sartox study. It's kind of the classic one that a lot of people refer to. I covered up some of the information there. They've got a number of different, they call them competitors. These are all steroids, steroid molecules. And they've looked at the relative binding to SHBG. And they also had rabbit muscle. I covered that up for the most part and rat muscle. Rat muscle is rats kind of like that's your standard lab animal because it's fairly similar to humans. And it's not far off in this case, it's true of the anticepter. A man is not a rat. There's truth to that without a doubt. There's some differences there. But in this case, what they tested was rat muscle, which has rat and heresophers in it. But in this case, it was a homogenetic. They take the muscle and they blend it up so they can, so the the anrogen they're testing, the ster other testing can bind freely to the anjrys, after. But they also have all the enzymes in that tissue. The ones that are inside the cell, the cytosol, intact. And those enzymes can act on the anrogen in the way that they would in vivo, in the actual animal. So as some background, the classic genomic way in which anrogen's work is the anrogen's their cholesterol backgrown base, testosterone based. So their lipophilic, they can make their way right through a plasma membrane, which is fatty in nature, into the cell. This kind of float into the cell. And then there's actually two pieces to an anagery septor, it dimerizes, so the die, meaning two pieces come together with one anrogen. And then it makes its way into the nucleus. And alongside with coactivators and transcription factors, turns on all those anrogen sensitive genes. So you have all the magic happening there. At least with the classical way that anrogen's work at the genomic level. So but in root, from outside the cell, through the cell, through what's called the cytosol, so the gelatinous stuff inside the cell, there are enzymes there. And in this table on the left, those enzymes are still around. So if you look here, in this case, if you look at that table on the left, number two is DHT. And it has a binding affinity and it's all relativeized to sort of for comparison say of one. So that's kind of the standard, SHBG, but DHT binding to SHBG is one. If you look at its binding, this is in the homogenized tissue with those enzymes. The binding of DHT dihydrochistosterone, the anrogenic version of testosterone that's been five-off reduced. That very one basically has zero binding to the anrogen receptor. Yeah. Nothing. And that's because there are enzymes in the cytosol that break it down. In this model, those enzymes are intact and they can act on and break down the DHT before it has a chance to bind to the anrogen receptor. There's nothing there. Now, if you see the little line, I've got the lines going from left to right there. And that second line of the less than 0.01 circled. And if you follow it over to the table on the right, the top line there shows DHT. And the leftmost column there is for the binding and it's relative binding affinity. So DHT is the standard to the recombinant human anrogen receptor. So on the left, the binding and the rat muscle anrogen receptor, when all those enzymes were there, was zilch, nothing, undetectable. You go over to the right where it's just the anrogen receptor. No enzymes around to act on the DHT. That's where we have 100% relative binding affinity. That's the standard for binding affinity, it's DHT. So it does bind the anrogen receptor, but only if it can get to it. And so if someone wanted to say, hey, DHT doesn't bind the anrogen receptor, they can pull the start-talk study up and show you that do a screen capture of that plot and it's like, nothing, zilch-o, zipo. Well, that's true in rat muscle that has those enzymes that break it down. Obviously, that's not true in the prostate. That's not true in the hair. And the skin, the places where people will see secondary side effects to anrogen's like DHT. So that's interesting. So I'm going to just skip down there some, this actually shows methyl trend. There's actually the second line that's connected. I think we can skip that for now. But what I want to get to mainly is, we can back with Nitu, to the bottom of the leftmost table, where they have, there's five different, I've highlighted them, five different compounds. And those compounds in order from 11, 12, 13, on to 15, it's pre-mo, Winnie, V-ball, Halo. And then the technical name that Dave Crossland doesn't like to use brawl. So you're all naturally. Brawl, brawl. Yeah, that's the last one. Green giant say, so. So, it's exactly. So here we have an issue with, in this case, the A-pop, exactly. So these have basically zero binding affinity to the anrogenoushefter. And there are no known enzymes that I'm aware of that show that would break down Winnie, Diana Ball, Halo Tested, and Anadrol, Oxi-Methalon. But they're not binding to the adrogenoushefter. But they work somehow. And this is what you mentioned on that previous podcast, because what they've done in a similar system is exposed muscle to, those, deep-all and windstrawling in particular. And they can, and this is what you're talking about, sort of lighting up the muscle, they have a, they can, they can, they use a model where when those anrogen responsive genes are activated, you actually also express of photo-luminizing molecule that creates literally light. So when the anrogenoushefter genes are turned on by an anrogen, like Winstrawler Debal, you actually literally light up the cell, because you also have those photo-luminizing molecules produced, and you can measure the quantity of light, the photons, the brightness of the light, the lumens of light, to get an indicator of the extent to which you've turned on, transactivated the anrogenoushefter genes. So as we know, no one's gonna say, Debal and Winstrawle doesn't work. You know, and they absolutely utterly, for sure work, they turn on those genes, but they don't seem to do it through the classical anrogenoushefter. So they certainly work, but it's not the mechanism by which testosterone would work, where it binds the anrogenoushefter. Yeah, which is very confusing to me. It is. Well, I've got another, I didn't send this to you. It's too complicated, but there's also other ways in which the anrogenous can work. One of them is another less referenced, less investigated anrogenoushefter that isn't that one that makes its way to the nucleus. It's a membrane bound one. You tend to see that in things like neurons. And so the oral is in particular, think superdrawl, anodrol, the ones that have an impact on your brain, your psychological state relatively rapidly. Literally people use those as pre-workouts for that purpose. They'll take an anodrol or a superdrawl or halo is a prime example that the power lifters would use to try to get anped up. Those act relatively rapidly. That's how plasma membrane receptors work. Once that anrogen gets to a plasma membrane receptor, boom, it turns on signaling within the cell and second messengers send out the signal and you can affect the activity of a neuron in the brain really rapidly in that way. So they're activating ananodry receptor because it's receiving an anrogen. So therefore it's technically anandry receptor. It's just not the classical genomic one that we know so much about. So there's a different mechanism of action there with the orals versus the non-orals. So that's sort of the bottom line there is that you see binding affinity. And it varies actually. If you look at that plot, one alpha methyl Dht is a methylated Dht. And that actually has some binding to the alpha or to the end receptor there. A little bit, it's about one third that of testosterone. So that one makes its way in. That's not an oral, I don't think people are making using. You'll see number five is a 19-nortestastron, Bethanyndrolone. So that one binds just by itself in this rat muscle equally to testosterone which is just above it. About one quarter the amount that you see with methyl trianolone which is the standard. So a methyl trianolone is methyl. So my barolone or methyl trend basically. So let's move our pictures to the left again. And some of the, so what can we take from this? Kind of complicated stuff. But the binding studies don't necessarily reflect tissue binding study. So what's sort of tissue metabolism what that should say. So what's actually going on in the tissue due to the activity of these enzymes is going to vary. So the effective DHT on muscle isn't this dramatic growth process. But the effective DHT on your prostate or your hairline or five-alpha reduced molecules, depending on the molecule is going to depend on the tissues activity enzymatically. Muscle breaks down DHT. In this case that's why you see zero binding there in the rat muscle and the leftmost, the Sartock table. The common orals like winning in debol, they don't bind to the traditional genomic and energy receptor. So but they still show transactivation at energy and receptive genes. And this is this membrane-based G protein and receptors. So I'm going to jump one thing. I'll cover another thing in just a second. But the question is how much do we really know about how these things are working? Like we don't even know where they're binding necessarily per se. Dost responses in terms of binding across the different tissues has not been determined. But what it does seem to suggest, the most of the injectables bind to that energy receptor, the one we all know and love, that has the effect genomically on the genes, and the orals don't. So it's a very common thing for people to stack an oral with an injectable. Makes sense from a growth perspective because you've got different mechanisms that you can couple together, that you can stack on top of one another, as opposed to using ad 500 milligrams test, to 500 milligrams of test, and then something that acts to another mechanism that's still anabolic as the orals will tend to be, and that makes more sense because you're making use of the activity of different pathways to produce the same growth andabolic effect in muscle that you're looking for. Yeah. So it makes sense, but we don't know that much. One thing I'll add to that I didn't, this is a whole other slide, but there's high, and I talked about this here, I think too. There's high variability in the binding affinity of the energy receptor across individuals. There's a couple of different sequences. One of them particular codes for the glutamine amino acid, and the length of that sequence, it can be like eight to like 30 or so amino acids, changes the shape of the energy receptor. And when the energy shift is a different shape, it's kind of like the locking key hypothesis. The extent to which the energy will bind to that energy receptor is going to vary. So we've got the locks, so to speak, and if the lock has changed, one key will work better than another key. If a really good lock with high energy receptor, at least testosterone receptor affinity, will work really, really good when the key that's coming in is testosterone. And it would you think would work well with other proteins that are like testosterone, like antibiotics, steroids are. But there's some possibility that for someone with an energy receptor with a lock that's shaped in one direction, might do better with keys that are better suited to that person's lock, meaning steroids that work differently and better for them versus someone else. Some seem to work universally if you can't grow on deck and devol, then mice will give up, as they say, and they're going to have a lot of energy. But some people find, yeah, I believe that's the way that, supposedly, that's what I've always heard that he was a person who kind of said that. But some people do really well with certain antigens and others don't. And there's reasons for that. There's the unknown, like what's actually going on in terms of the pharmacodynamics, what the drug is doing in the body, and that's going to vary because we don't use that. But the first thing is that for someone like their spine, which energy is located isdock, which energy factor, which energy factor is binding to necessarily, so how it's going about that things, all the other aspects of the genetics, including the energy center itself, or that's also of this in part like the pharmacodynamics, which is looking think of anatory sectors and anatory suburbiding and the previous slide which is the pharmacokinetics. So thinking of all those possibilities, not to mention someone's lifestyle, their training, their food, everything else, but just the drug related stuff. Imagine someone who won the lottery, they've got a really highly-anagent high-anagent receptors, affinity for antigens, so getting good binding, good transactivation. That's true for both the membrane bound and the genomic classical nuclear receptor. They've got the right enzymes for producing the high area into the curve for stripping that that esterified fatty acids. So they've got the the A genes for the phosphorysteree-7B. They happen to use the right carrier oil and the injecting the right site for them. They've got all those things lined up. They're going to be, they're going to do pretty dang well. They're going to blow up. Take someone else with poor genetics, poor choice of injection, carrier site, blah, blah, that person could be almost an anonymous bonder relatively speaking. Sure. So this is some reasons why kind of a brain can anything, these are some reasons why things can vary for individuals. That's some, it's hopped ahead to the next one. So try to, this is growth hormone. Very controversial to some degree. Some people think it's the, it's the, it's the nectar of the gods. And then others like, yeah. So I'm going to touch on some of those things. Just just to try to help people understand why it might be that some do better than others. So on the right, I've got a plot there. It's the somata need and high hypothesis. So this is the basis for the reason why a lot of guys like to look to their IGF1 levels. Excuse me, when they're using GH. So the way in which it's thought that GH is part of least mediates growth is that it is a somata median. In fact, it used to be called somata median C before they termed it growth hormone. Because one major way in which growth hormone exerts its effects on growth and its anabok activities is by causing the release of IGF1 in the liver. So that's what you see in the plot there, the two returgy gland releasing growth hormone and then it stimulates the liver produce IGF1. And the IGF1 goes about its business in the body. There's numerous binding proteins sort of very complicated system. GH binds to bone directly. Their GH receptors there. The idea that GH has a direct effect on skeletal muscle. It does seem to enhance protein synthesis. It doesn't there's not a lot of strong evidence at least in the research that it's some giant mass builder. Talked about reasons things with GH and how it may help people gain because they've got greater fat loss with it or the got effect on fat metabolism. What was the reason the eat more and possibly use that energy to grow from. But as far as GH a GH receptor where GH would bind and do things directly the skeletal muscle. That's a pretty iffy proposition. It's only a couple studies that have demonstrated direct effect on skeletal muscle per se that suggests that there's a GH receptor there and only one that I can find there might be a couple others of many where they've not been able to actually isolate a growth hormone receptor in skeletal muscle. Just not there for the most part. So it's doing indirect things. In terms of fat metabolism and IGF1 I think which are probably bringing about its effect. So that means there's lots of potential for variability and intermediates. For instance if you're using growth hormone everything else is the same you'll get a elevation IGF1. But if you're dieting down you would expect IGF1 to get low because IGF1 is a relative marker of nutritional status. If you're hypercoloric and it caloric deficit you're IGF1 is going to go down. Growth hormone might not be enough bring that up to where it's elevated outside of normal ranges which is what people are looking for so know if they have legitimate growth hormone and they extend to which that happens varies. So just a real quick this is no there's not a particular study or just some real quick ideas about growth hormone. I'll try to move through this quickly as a good bit of information there. If you could slide us maybe to the upper right that would be best I think. Yeah so actually there's two major growth hormone isiforms. There's a little bit bigger one that's 22 kilodaltons in size that's the one that you'll get if you're buying pharmaceutical growth hormone there's another one that's a little bit smaller and they're actually growth they're a dimers like two growth hormone pieces that you'll find in the blood as well as fragments all of which can have activity. So we're just using one of the plurry the numerous different forms of growth hormone. There are at least two different growth hormone binding protein versions with different affinity for those that's another source of variability. In fact the gene that codes for the growth hormone receptor is also used to code the proteins for the growth hormone binding protein both of which of course buying growth hormone when it's received by the receptor or bound to the binding protein. There's one variation in that growth hormone binding protein that seems to be a better one to have it can furrs better growth and dwarfs when they give them growth hormone and it also means that people with acromegally who produce too much growth hormone they have better glucose tolerance they have a lower BMI so then out of they tend to be leaner generally speaking that's what the BMI would suggest and their levels are low. That growth hormone receptor gene doesn't seem to affect adult growth in individuals but in people that have excess or if be administered growth hormone that's the better growth hormone receptor to have growth hormone antibodies form. Highly variable in some studies it's none when they looked at it other studies up to 60% of individuals given that growth hormone produce that. That table that just below where you're sitting right now shows it's from that rujo at on 1991 and they looked at a number of different studies the leftmost column shows the number of individuals out of the total subjects they studied and the number of individuals individuals that had produced antibodies to genotropin, somatram, hematrop, nomenordisc, et cetera, et cetera and those bottom three studies nobody produced antibodies and the top three number of people did one of studies was 10 out of 46 individuals tired even in other studies. How long those antibodies stay around also varies so the problem with an antibody is that that's your immune system way of targeting and binding up a potential hazardous molecule to zeno biotic it's not something that's good so antibodies would bind to the protein that's growth hormone because so it could be targeted by your immune system for destruction get it out of here and of course it doesn't work then the growth hormone can't bind to as receptor and do its business so some people produce higher antibodies than others and that could render their growth hormone useless so that's the reason why growth hormone might work if you're someone with the immune system that is sensitive for whatever reason to the growth hormone that you use which seems to vary according to different brands even the pharmaceutical ones you're going to negate that growth hormone because you're producing antibodies to it your immune system is taking it out of the mix it's basically undoing the injected growth hormone so that's not to mention what could happen of course with the product so obviously black market products can be underdosed that can be a possibility and the quality can be an issue so the growth hormone is generally produced with if they're not pulling this from from a cadaver is anymore it gets a legal actually the outcome quite felt disease was the issue people would get pre-on based disease from doing that that was sort of sneaking into those products so the user commented DNA technology which is a pretty fragile technology it has to be you know done in somewhat controlled it's very commonplace now but if someone's doing this in a factory where they're just banging out as much as they can you could be producing growth hormone molecules that aren't completely up to stuff in fact you could produce what you think is equivalent to the human growth hormone was off by one amino acid let's say let's say you just have a certain percentage it's off by one or two amino acids or a number of fragments in there and this is some of the black market people are actually measuring this and reporting their products how many broken growth hormone molecules you have so you can have a poorly constructed a mal-constructed or incomplete and guess what happens you put something that's kind of a fake version of growth hormone a not real not matching to your endogenous growth hormone a good immune system says that's not what we want and it targets it produces antibodies or it could be that with that one wrong missing amino acid or x percentage of your growth hormone that isn't completely complete molecule those fragments are completely inactive or that mal form growth hormone is completely inactive it's a faulty growth hormone molecule so you immune system picks up on that and guess what if immune system happens to find something in that faulty growth hormone that is the same as in a regular growth hormone it's going to probably start producing antibodies to your own growth hormone too that's a possibility certain so then now you really screw yourself you've you've injected a the screw that growth hormone it sensitizes your immune system to your own growth hormone as well and you become growth hormone deficient at least until you know some point in time maybe those antibodies are gone that's a possibility theoretically at least so storage can be an issue if you get something from overseas and it you know sits you know who in customs or what have you for a month you can have oxidation deamination potentially cleavage to the protein could break down the you can have the amino acids could deamidate so they can lose part of their their nitrogen containing of the part of the molecule or they can oxidize so those are going to change the shape of the growth hormone trigger the immune system or just mean that it doesn't fit well with the growth hormone receptor then you're screwed so those are all possibilities either genetic or because of the product that can change the results that a user would get let's grow a thorn mom so again information for you to know not that you want to go out and like just try to sample every growth hormone product you possibly can but there's some there is some roulette here so to speak absolutely some degree yeah so that can be why it's a lot of the you know the very very common perception that you know farm grade growth hormone is so much better than black market stuff it makes sense given this to some degree even though there's possibility antibiotic formation even with farm grade at least you're avoiding those handling and those production issues storage and production issues that can create a product that at worst case scenario is just relatively ineffective or best case scenario relatively effective in worst case scenario also triggers your immune system to basically completely block any growth hormone signaling if it's doing its job and taking out the growth hormone your body's producing yeah I can't remember what brand it was Dave Crossland and spoke to someone who was with a manufacturer and they said that to this day in the UK they have never found growth hormone that was produced from their facility that was on the underground market that everything they had found like on the underground market were imposteres they were counterfeits which I thought that was interesting I can't remember which brand it was but it's you know all fake yeah yeah and that's not to say that there wasn't real growth hormone in it but that there's big business in not not to try to trick us but to actually trick pharmacies or to trick hospitals pharmacies they're getting that stuff by the palette we're just getting it you know I shouldn't say we but people and us as in body builders are getting those products that were you know tricking big company space I think pretty was by the mob you know or whoever out there yeah you know one of the things that Jordan has talked about which was really really smart he had a connection someone who had the lab with lab equipment to do at least on the gear I believe maybe even on an G8 to actually measure molecular weight yeah measure you know get an idea of the configuration the number of the purity just the purity I think generally as well as a number of fragments fragmentation that you'll see nice in growth hormone as well as the gear because that's the thing you could even have let's say supplier this is something I think LATS talked about they they try to do you know they do the bio assay for growth hormone a lot on that site where people will go in and they'll do a 10 IU growth hormone injection and time their blood work so it's about three three hours after that injection and look at the the growth hormone levels in the blood which you can do just ordering that that assay for yourself but a lot of those sponsors there a lot of people are selling black market on that side of the places they have lab results assay results for their product but who's the know whether they're making those up or not you know that's been a point of attention I've seen right so it's makes you think wow like they're really going the extra mile but is that an independent third party truly is you such a thing you know in the black market right I mean these are people you don't know they go by student aims you know obviously they're trying to make as much money as possible and who as the wherewithal me Jordan went about doing that but most people are not going to like you know I'm going to buy I don't know 500 dollars with a growth hormone I'm going to spend $2,000 testing it true true I'm not going to happen yeah you kind of have to rely on and people I think rely on communities and they know you know massive words and old people that they trust and at the end of the day though you are obviously still taking uh taking the plunger yourself yeah and the thing with growth hormone just it seems there's like the title of the slide was why so controversial some people really are highly responsive to it yeah they seem to they seem to see that magical effect where they just sort of recomp with it and others not and it's hard to really know how much of which of all this multitude of factors are at play whether it's the gear or whether it's the sort of the growth hormone or it's the person or something in between it could be good growth hormone that just spent too long sitting in a hot truck someplace yeah right so but this is worth worth considering so last one yep we're almost there so here here's the big here's the big and you know this study I've talked about a multitude of times one of my favorites so placebo study that Gideon Riel did back in the 1972 so this is the one university Massachusetts they took the um athletes who had uh uh done the best during a competition to see if they would be entered into a study to test the effect and that's of dannable so literally steroids have just been um um uh outlawed in 1970 this was 72 in this published so it was about that time and of course that in of itself puts in your mind that okay there's a reason why these are legal now the reason why you know they're by sport what's that by sport Dima by law 70s I didn't feel as it's steroids when you know I see so they were all subscription I got you yeah they became a controlled substance yeah were they controlled substance or just considered made into pharmaceuticals because I thought it was like the 1990 one thing was when they made them a controlled substance and a blockster control act I think I have to go up to ask um uh Rick Collins maybe okay because I don't want to get you in any trouble here we get some YouTube or right there you are part the animal external control act maybe shifted the scheduling that they were in but I think that's yeah yeah and I don't but in 1970 there was it became illegal for anything other than prescriptions so maybe that was that was it basically okay but the point of that is that they were they were under a scrutiny of the federal government which creates an allure of course they become a fruit for being fruit and you know people were starting to come aware you know the eastern block athletes have been doing this for a while you know this is a big deal there's something there to be said and when these athletes actually the ones that did the best in this sort of pre-training period um who won the right to get into the study and you see those data there on the left I'll get to that in just a second they brought them into the health center to give them the proper screening let them know what the potential side effects would be of these highly potent drugs that they're about to get all of which of course set them up for expecting massive gains of course so um they had this competition and then the winners went the testing period what you see on the left there is this sort of training period and it's the increase they'd put any standard air bars in there but increase in the in the total training loads like one rep max loads that they got over that first period and then the bottom and the bottom chore there for the squat and the bench so that was eight weeks and you can see the the increases there over those first eight weeks with during an off season period when you expect that gains are going to come pretty readily they've just come off their season whether they weren't doing much way training now they get back in the gym and trying to make games these are the motivated ones and then they took it on the health center total here comes the goodies gave them the placebo no gear at all and during that period of time you see the plots on the right the placebo period which is what they thought was the drug and the rate of gains was like two to three times just in five weeks the rate of gains was two to three times and there was a five-week period when they were getting a placebo that's when you expect that their gains would have been tempering off this is just strength they weren't measuring body composition here but if you presume that the strength of the bench is going to carry over the training stimulus is going to carry over to muscle gains there's obviously applicability here so this was just because they fully believe that this was the case if you can slide off us off to the left there we go cool um this is my favorite placebo study because they literally something about thinking that they're on the steroids brought about greater gains substantially literally they made more games during that five-week period than the previous eight-week period so just a little more than half as long and the rate of gains was two to three times greater yes you have a question no oh I thought I heard you about say something so the bit lot of point here is if you think you're on the goods you might as well have them you might as well be right and there's a large part to that so this all comes down to the expectations I mentioned before they were told to the side effects of the student at student health they expected the ASS would enhance their performance because of the illegality of them and real AS can have effects that also create these expectations these think back to the Bosnstate where I suspected I guessed that those college students who were given 600 milligrams of test probably thought it could tell that they were on the year because their sex drive would be in outrageous so that creates expectancies which at least might have carried over to when they went into the strength test they think they're a little bit superhuman and they give different efforts because it's affected their brain in some way shape or form there's another study I don't show the data here but imagine Arrested Al he was part of a thesis study published in 2000 they put basically the same thing with power lifters and told them they were getting steroids and then they saw the same effect essentially and then what they did was they revealed the truth to them by the way no gear just kidding it was fake sugar pill and they lost their strength they literally reverted back in the effect reversed itself yeah oh it dissipated so once they once they eliminated that thought that they were on special sauce the effects of thinking their on special sauce were gone so belief is a powerful thing and here's here's the thing that's kind of hard to to separate like you want to actually believe the stuff if someone's going to use PEDs it's to your benefit to believe that you're using them because just believing that has its own effects in and of itself that's just the power of your mind in this case I mean these are placebo like effect or these are steroid like effects from a placebo and the thing that is is worth knowing of course is that one that's going to potentially blur your ability to tell whether you've got something that's actually working if you're sure it is then it will so obviously you'd rather not spend your money on bunk product something that's not truly physiologically effective but games are games you know if it's if you can trick yourself with a $200 a week or whatever it might be PED use that produces the games you're seeking and it's bunk well obviously there's possibility they're using something that's creating some physiological harm too is a different substance or what I have you but that's the bottom line so that's going to intervene with whether or not you can tell if what you're using is real or not but the other side of this is that before and this is probably the more fact this is definitely more important the message message is that if you know if you know because the placebo effect if the placebo effects are certainly there and there's some variability here too there are certain number of genes that are predictive of the placebo effect but if you're someone who's amenable to that then there is something in your mind that you're not harnessing my thought would be two choices harness that power of your mind first and foremost before you go to using drugs because we know which ones to ease your way out we know which one is likely to be have the carry with it the greatest risk of harm that's the drugs there's a lot there to be had with just dotting every eye crossing every tea believing in yourself and putting everything into your training your supplementation otherwise your traditional supplementation your food not just super supplements to maximize all those things and see what you can do without the drugs that's worth that really because just the mind power can be as impactful as drugs at least in a short term obviously you know you're not going to get the size of big ramen right more than like without some self-mutation but I think what happens is this human nature where we look for the it makes sense to look for the easiest route to get somewhere you know most people are not going to find the hardest try it's a more difficult route to go without the gear to try to maximize see what your maximal potential might be the question is in my mind and you know where I stand on this because I harp on this all the time is that the value of the of the behavior the value of the path the value of the journey it comes in what you've overcome and learned in doing so not necessarily where you end up so I would much rather be the guy who struggled tooth and nail put on 15 pounds of muscle over the course of five years and no I earned every single bit of that but it'd be someone who put on 25 pounds of muscle and I train lacs a day's at least and I you know eight kind of whatever blah blah there's there's nothing redeeming invaluable in that that's not a challenge overcome that's just knowing that if you give pharmaceuticals to your body you'd happen to be someone who responds quite well to them but you know you may actually also be someone who really really like strawberry ice cream as opposed to chocolate ice cream that's just you know your proclivity that's you tend to see the like that kind of that doesn't there's a mean all that much except maybe you want to eat more strawberry ice cream yeah so just because you grow well from drugs for your soul what's the important route to go for Instagram likes for you know picking up chicks maybe or thinking that you got a better chance a lot of them don't really care about that some do of course the the drugs are going to be the faster ticket but for you as a person which is the better route and I think maximizing everything and if this is if PEDs is something you choose to do because it's your part of fully actualizing your capacity as a human on this planet then you know I'm not I'm no one to say but there's a lot there's a lot that can be done this is what this last slide's about without the gear and just believing that you just having the belief that the gear brings to people the placebo effect in this case is is one of the most powerful tools that are available to people and I think we just don't realize that because this placebo effect thing is sort of a nebulous type of deal but it's a mullimatter of expecting something to happen and if you believe something then you expect it to happen that's what expectancy is if you believe you're going to get to 200 pounds, 220 pounds you're going to bench 315 whatever it might be if you really truly believe that it's going to happen more than likely barring some unforeseen accident or some you know bizarre circumstance so belief is a trump card that I think a lot of people may not be able to apply or don't realize that they have available but it's in your hand it's there if you believe it you can make a hell of a lot happen that you may not be aware of so that's my main thought on the whole PED thing is that that's the last that's the last trump card and the more important one is the one that does it cause you harm for sure that's just believing in yourself I like what you can possibly do I think it's a great message yeah I hope so all right so yeah does that a closing side there that's it yep so don't miss parts one and two like we did um training and nutrition yes yeah before this so this is the this is the third whammy in the three part series to celebrate 100 episodes 100 first 100 second episodes together this was a this is a good one I hope my brain is any more information and we do have our our Patreon question but my brain feel is so saturated right now even if I were to be insulin I couldn't get any more knowledge inside I'm at like full saturation point let me see if I can pull this question up though we did have some stuff that came up from here it is this is from Daniel now I'm not sure where Daniel is from but he says uh different give him that English is not his native tongue that said his English seems pretty freaking good to me um he says for Scott Stevenson my cardiologist wants to put me on a calcium channel blocker I read some conflicting data about whether it does or does not affect strength in the gym some say it does others say it doesn't I would love to hear what Scott's opinion is on calcium channel blockers especially in relationship to performance in the gym I'm trying to get my pro card next year so I'm very concerned about this he also adds I have very bad asthma and I believe that ACE inhibitors are not recommended for people with asthma and I want to say shout out to him too for supporting us on Patreon anybody else who wants to help the shows out I'll put the link down below you can check that out every five bucks helps to you know pay for stuff like the programs we use and our memberships to sound cloud and all that stuff so what do you think here Scott listen to your doctor I'm not a doctor nor do I play one on the internet oh because it's probably a reason for that I'm guessing it's a blood pressure thing here so I'll just address the calcium channel blocker so I'm pretty sure what Daniel means by any sense strength in the gym is not like one rep max strength which is kind of the death of the strength the horsey-toy-d exercise science definition of strength but it will more than likely it would more than likely impact his performance in the gym the idea of a calcium channel blocker is to impact your heart and your heart's pumping ability in a way that we reduce the blood pressure okay so I won't go into the cardio dynamics of the of the deal but calcium channels are involved with calcium induced calcium release and cardio myocytes and calcium is what is triggering the active in myocytes and to produce the contractions in your heart so if you're blocking a calcium channel you're blocking the entry of calcium to bring about that process essentially so there's going to be an impact on cardiac performance on your heart and if you're doing such a kind of a high volume short rest of all type of training that it out you're going to probably see some impact on your performance you just won't be able to get your heart rate as high you'll be able to pump as blood your blood in the same way and that's important if for if for nothing more if it's not you know let's say your sets are not particularly long or with short rest intervals you will you're going to have a change change perception of your effort relative to what your heart's doing so blood flow is important you need a blood flow to to move metabolites out of the muscle cell for recovery purposes and the the heart is limiting in terms of blood flow through the entire body you can produce a lot more blood flow in a given muscle then your heart can support if you were trying to do that and all the muscles of the body so the heart's limited so now you're taking the sort of limiting factor for blood flow and reducing its capacity with the purpose I think of controlling its hypertension but it's going to probably have some impact there now there are people that train just fine with that you know I don't think you know I don't imagine to be honest unless I mean I would imagine you be able to train just fine probably to make the traffic gains you wants to want to make first and foremost is his health if he's got a high blood pressure there's all the health ramifications come with that take care of that you know that's super important so listen to the doctor but that's just a physiologist perspective on the impact that a calcium channel blocker would have on his performance I don't even know that's ever been studied directly I haven't looked honestly that one I have not looked but that would make perfect sense anything you're doing like a they've done a lot with beta blockers has a it's a beige brace symbol so he wants to dig in the literature he could go to google scholar scolor dot google dot com and put in beta blocker exercise performance and that will limit your heart rate math or rates substantially an impact performance especially during aerobic exercise so he's got more of an aerobic type of way of training high volume keep it moving you know get maintain a bump until the pump is gone type of training style or if he's just does like a lot of like badass full body like squat deadlift leg press types of training yeah where his heart rates you know close to or equivalent to it's what it's max is that's going to be impacted so he will he would notice it there so so yeah there's that pot there's that issue potentially but you also want to live to compete to so yeah if the doctor's telling you you know your blood pressure is a hard control and talk though with your doctor there could be that's a very specific question you may be able to have elevated him at a crit it may be that he's someone who gets high blood pressure hypertension when he has polysithemia so you know maybe blood letting full body me would be a good deal for him we don't know where he lives whether that's possibility so you know talk with your doctor about those options yeah yeah I had had to use a blood pressure medication at one point when I was pushing my body weight up my blood pressure was going up and I had issues with the first that we tried and I expressed to my doctor like I said you know I don't want this to affect my training and so she listened to me on that we tried something it didn't we ended up going to listen a pro which worked fine for me and so obviously you guys know I'm not a doctor for sure but I just shared my experience that listen a pro didn't affect me whatsoever and I think there's a dosage factor in there too like I did use a low dose of a beta blocker at one point it helped my my blood pressure just fine and it didn't in our fact it didn't excuse me it didn't interfere with my ability to do cardio anything like that so I think it's because it was just a really tiny dose was all I needed so you know I mean if you did go that route and use a calcium channel blocker maybe as doctor had him on such a small dose that it wouldn't matter anyway so if you didn't like what you were getting you know you would know right you would know you'd be like man it's just isn't the same anymore it's not as if you would go on with life and not realize it and just not make gains you would be able to tell in the gym you know right yeah that's that's the right that's a very good point is that he's wondering if like maybe there's going to be something invisible impact on his gain he's not aware of right no this is going to be able to know yeah he'd be able to like you know I just can't push it in the gym way I like to be able to so you know the only way to know is to give it a shot and then go back and see his doctor again hopefully that's a possibility there's some countries some medical systems we're like getting you see your doctors like an active congress it's very very hard and to get and then hopefully you get all done with one one shot because the next appointment is going to be six months later hopefully not in situations like that but yeah good luck man let if you do find another route get back to us let us know and that way we can we can spread the information for similar people people who maybe in similar circumstances to yours I also want to mention guys that you know some of the stuff we talked about a lot of the stuff you can you can find in be your own bodybuilding coach Scott's book by the way good you're good Jeremy Jason competed this weekend he did his warm-up show and he looked fantastic did he okay because why he wasn't going to do it for a while but then did they find another location or something yeah yeah so I feel like I gave him a nudge because he was getting ready for a natural contest here in Michigan he looked incredible looks incredible the show got postponed from you know we're recording this in April got postponed to June and then they said they weren't going to have the pro card in it anymore so he was going to compete this weekend and I had said hey man you know although you can't compete at that show there is an MPC show so we jumped in that and he got to do this test run he looked fantastic and he's planning on doing a show I believe it's in eight weeks from now maybe less no it's in May so it's coming up and that will be in Chicago he is going to be able to still compete for his natural pro card so and he did his own diet he did his own diet he followed be your own bodybuilding coach Scott's book for the basically the whole thing all the way through including the way he did his test carb up you know his test peak week and now his peak weekend and I'll tell you what man he nailed it he maybe could have been just a tiny bit fuller I think but it was the so marginal that he was at that like 97% point I would say where maybe you could have gotten to a hundred if you tried a little harder or maybe he could have messed it up so it's like it really was that and I would call that perfect you know and I mean I would call hitting 97 to 98 99 all if you can hit that every time you're better off than hitting go shooting for 100% and then spilling you know so it was a if you're in great shape like he is glutes are in low back looks crispy everything looked really good on him so congratulations to his package using the book go to bbiobcote.com you can also go to amazon get the hard cover like I have and of course check out our sponsor true nutrition dot com user code advice is get a nifty shaker cup like I have used their stuff and you could support the programming that way as well as patreon and of course check out scouts training plan fortitude training dot net scott happy 100 second episode man yeah this was fun we have people digging these me too we can do maybe short and but it takes a lot to put all this together it takes a lot to listen honestly like it I honestly man like three quarters of the way through my brain was like I don't know if I can handle anymore so maybe shorter for you would be good I could digest it all you know yeah yeah my my brain like just each this shit up yeah go all day I would be happy but that's because I've been doing it for so long you know I developed a tolerance but if you have any questions maybe next time we can even do the next we have some questions I think you compiled but yeah if people have any questions on these first three so if you haven't done any you know post show Q and A really at all except for questioning and there we can do that and I can you know we can pull up the slides whatever to help clarify anything people could use by I love that idea so guys basically that said comment with your questions and we will tackle them for another episode of also mine's we've got Stevenson I've got Mcnaley we'll see you soon thanks got I'll use

The way I look at drugs is, it's how I teach it on the courses, well, is that each individual drug has a set of effects. Some of those effects we want, some of those effects we don't want, and that's our tool chest. Yeah. Now, we can use those tools to create growth and strength in any situation, but some are better suited for other things. In the same way, I can hear a nail into a wall with a heavy screwdriver using a handle, but I'm going to be much more efficient by doing it with a hammer, and it's probably going to require much less hits, and I'm less likely to hear the wall. So, old tools will do the job of helping you get stronger and bigger, but some are better suited to certain tasks. What's up guys, welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crossley and I'm Scott McNalley and all of our programming is brought to you by evelblutanalsist.com. Get your lab worked done by Dave if you're in the UK. We are brought to you by Strom Sports Nutrition. Go to StromSports.com. If you're in the UK, you're going to need some great health supplements. If you're on cycle, go to Strom and get those. We're brought to you by TruNutrition.com. In the US, check out their cookie butter flavor. You can buy evenly, just to pound a protein at a time. You want to try different flavors. Use our code, think over there, and supplement source.ca for our Canadians. Guys, they have great deals that change week to week. Dave, we've got a fun topic today. Oh, and Patreon, of course Patreon, because you guys are freaking dependable on like you two revenue. We've got a fun topic today. We also had a little bit of feedback from the last show. Whoa, whoa. You missed the most important thing. You're new app, better you. No, dot com dot Dave dot what? Roger Fund. Oh, yes. So guys, I told Dave, Dave got another super chat for. So here's the thing, I am literally sitting here editing podcasts all day every day. I'm recording the stuff I'm editing it, and I get no super chats. Dave says, I want a pro charger, and now he's got like $26, I think. I'll tie all the other, which I have to pay taxes on, because that goes to my counting US taxes, and we're going to figure it out, but one way or another, Dave's going to get his only a number eight thousand to go. You can make this man's life complete by buying him a pro charger, super charger, turbo charger, pro. Okay, thank you. So we do have some fun stuff. We appreciate everybody who's watching. You guys are freaking awesome. We've been in a lot of really great comments a lot of feedback. We've kind of had a couple of shows to do really well, which is also brought in a whole new element of people that don't use gear in one of chastise us for it. That's a lot of fun. I always heart those comments. A lot of times I don't say anything, but I say, hey, here's a heart for you. Love you, buddy. So I'm not going to use gear. You guys are dumb. Why would you guys do that? Would you do if you couldn't use gear, you're going to crawl into a whole new cry? Look, yeah, I didn't even care. Yeah, yeah, we're going to do that. Which might happen. So by the way, topic of the day, Dave is perfect pairs. You know, outside of testosterone. Who beats? We're going to talk about. Boobies, boobies are perfect pairs. Perfect pairs of compounds to combine together. But before we do, I didn't want to mention to you. There was some interesting feedback that was legit. I've heard a lot of people. So we did the show saying, hey, our tariffs going to affect the UGL market. And lats from professional muscle who has a lot of good inside information did have something to say. What did you say here? Because here's a thing, man. I didn't want to title the show like fear mongering. I didn't want to scare people. Do you know what I mean? So I said, you know, will tariff, trying to tariff destroy the UGL market. And then I put not likely. And I did that to be careful to not scare people. Yeah, excuse me. Boobie. Me, my girls are teething. Dids? Right, there's a sin. The fact that you have to be careful that you don't scare people by potentially suggesting the legal drugs supply may be limited. You know, maybe they're right, maybe I'll, I'll fix. Well, here's the thing. I, and I mentioned this to people last week too. I don't want to come off like, so here's the thing. I saw a source posting this there. Like we all know that pre-mose unavailable and master around his next. The UGL market is in bad shape and we are heading into rough times. But thankfully, we prepared for this and we have plenty of gear. So you can stock up now while the supplies last. So I do think that people are trying to make a bit of money off of it. That said, I can't see if you get a clear answer as to what's going on. It's all over the place. You speak to one person. It's this. You speak to another person. It's not. Yeah. The little thing to me, any real, so a defined, this is what we do it. Yeah, and so LATS says, I will say that the large influx of fake raws coming out of China in the last couple of months, I'd be waiting to see if this calms down. The price increases. Our legitimate raw powders are raw powder producers for pre-mode mass is ridiculous. And nothing more than price gouging. Nothing to do with the crackdown. So he does throw that out there. So there are changes right now as far as the powder goes. Yeah, well, they're industrious little focus. Yeah, I'm not surprised. It's a kid at up a tube. It's it. Right, oh, what do you wear? They can. Okay, why don't? Yeah. Yeah. All right, so perfect pairs. Where do you want to start with this? Well, I just want to say, see, as you can't buy pre-mode mass drawn anymore, you have spare money now so you can contribute to a project out of fund and make a fat-old Englishman very happy. I've told you, boobies. If we're talking about pairs, boobies. Yeah, okay. So beyond that, let's talk bodybuilding, let's talk. Big boobies. For instance, hands in. And then boobies. Do do do do pairs. I think, I mean, obviously your greatest pairing compound is going to be test. Yeah, let's go beyond test about that. Well, if I'm just saying, you know, test test is going to be paired with pretty much every drug anyway. Yeah. There are occasions where you wouldn't, um, like just how you can potentially run DHT's only and something like that, but so, it's not that common so pairs. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. That we're going to do pairs. Or are we going to do groupings? It doesn't perfect groupings doesn't sound like a very good YouTube title. It's not cutting up at my point. Yeah, so if you're saying that we're going to say test is a given. Yeah. How are we just pairing stuff to test? Or are we pairing the other known pound? We're pairing two compounds together with test. Well, I'm just going to go all school test tech at, but if you want it to make a groupings, go test the correct way. So we'd call, then we would call, uh, axiomethylone and nanderlone with the perfect pair. That's, that's where our logic is going to go with this. Right, that's why I was trying to clarify and you were making it extremely difficult to get that. Ha ha. All right. Now that we understand, so like a, uh, Klan N T 3, there's a perfect pair. I think those two together. Hmm, those two. There's a good. Okay. All. Klan N T 5. You know when you say that, we're going to have 10 comments. How it's going to be, oh, it's going to be, oh, it's going to be, oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, they're going to say, what's T 5? F, F, the dream, guffing, and uspring. Okay, so the ECA ECA stack. Yes, T 5. With with what? Klan. With Klan, both of those together. Well, all right, it's a bit hard to meet. I get that book. Using a thermogenic, this is going to increase caloric burn and then using a compounder, helps release an increased fat metabolism is a good pairing. Now, whether you use Klan N T 5 or you use something like, oh, currently N T 5, but anything that's going to make fat, more bioavailable for the bodies to use under thermogenic is going to be a good pairing because one thing's metabolizing fat, the other things increase in caloric burn. Okay, so for instance, then something to burn fat like you said, with alkalinity. It can be a good one. Yeah, so I think any compound that metabolizes fat or makes fat more bioavailable for the body to use. Yeah. And then any compound that increases caloric burn usually a thermogenic, but not necessarily I mean T 3 is a supposed really T 3 is a bit of both in it. Yeah. So GH, GH is going to help with fat metabolism. That with a thermogenic or anything that increases caloric burn and you've got a nice fat loss combination. Yeah, I like that or how I, you know, where I thought you were going to go different direction, GH and insulin. On a different, different reason, but yes, yeah, offset your blood sugar with the insulin from your IGH use. I like that one. Going back to our start, the anoddrawal and deca, what would be your, and I agree with you, you know, and that's going to be like, those are like two real heavy hitters for water and for mass. Like that's a mass stack. There's of course we always assume test is in there too. Most likely at some point at some level, what would be in your opinion the benefits of combining those two? So for me personally, I mean, I know we have to just in light compounds there, but that's not really shouldn't, and it isn't really an issue in most people. Decor is a very good anabolic. So it's not so much on the heavy androgen side, though it is using strength gain. It is a very good mass building compound. One of its primary uses was for combat in muscle waste disease and for you orders like aase and stuff like that. And oxy is a very good strength and creaser. Yes. So you have this combination of a boost in the gym using poundages, way above what you would normally use, and then this heavy anabolic and coming from the decker, which is going to really help process recovery from that extra poundage that you're pushing. You go with that. Yeah. It's like if you put training in the mix, I mean there's other issues to trend that make it harsh in other areas, but again we've got a big strength increase in compound. Yeah. So you stick that with a good anabolic compound. Usually it's just test, but you could go test a mast. Yeah. And then you've got good anabolic and support the recovery from the increased workload you're getting out of the trend boost in your strength. Man I got really strong the first time I ran trend and it was kind of semi-off seasonish. Like I was dieting but I was still getting strong and I was able to keep the food high enough that I was great man and I combined that with people. It was test trend in deba. Oh my god man I still remember setting up to do some dumbbell rows and you know that feeling where you just like you grab onto the dumbbell and you pull the first rep and you just like rip it. There's like no resistance to it. I was like oh yeah we're on to something here you know that strength along with eating enough you can grow some muscle little question. I I remember my first exploit into woxies and squat and it was it was like a plate a week was going up you know how big it is. It's very sluggish. It's saying strength increases out of it the first ever use the yeah but yeah so yeah you know I like the pairing of what we were traditionally say was a high-end region as for something it's very strength focused with a good solid on a ballad to back up recovery. If you have I don't like combining 200g so for the simple reason that is just a sheet load of stress and not really the recovery aspect. I mean if you look at decker from a bloods value we know that high long dose expo so high those long exposure to decker is not particularly healthy for the heart shall we say but from other factors it's actually quite minimally impacting on blood values and blood pressure and everything else each not a particularly stressful drug in every of the way. Yeah when you look at trainers to fly out it's very stressful drug so I don't like pairing two stress makers together. Yeah yeah in the sides from trend like if you're getting if you're taking enough that you're getting insomnia like you know that's that's not going to help your gains either. No yeah it's everything it's the way I look at drugs is and it's how I teach it on the course as well is that each individual drug has a set of effects. Some of those effects we want some of those effects we don't want and that's our tool chest. Yeah now we can use those tools to create growth and strength in any situation but some are better suited for other things in the same way I can hit a hammer and nail into a wall with a heavy screwdriver using the handle. Yeah but I'm going to be much more efficient by doing it with a hammer and it's probably going to require much less hits and I'm less likely to hit the wall. Yeah so all tools will do the job of helping you get stronger and bigger but some are better suited to certain tasks. I mean you can die into a show on test and decker but the issues in management and product management is probably going to be a bit of a twat. So again it's about once you pick the right tools then once you've got that list of tools I drugs for the purpose you're trying to achieve the goal you're trying to achieve then you factor in personal sensitivity which may remove certain drugs. Yeah you never factor in blood work and health position which may remove certain drugs and then watch your left with is what you can play with. Yeah I really like the combo of EQ and NPP and I've talked about that before because I always felt that EQ showed me its results later in the cycle if I were running a longer or like 16 weeks cycle but that NPP would be much faster so that we you know along with the test of course test in that NPP were you know week two three four I felt like I was already getting something good out of it you know and then maybe I even drop that out a little bit later and end up just on the test in EQ but I do find that to be a great combo and that was one of my favorites for growth. What am I favorites and is probably to get a really pissed people off was actually combining decker and NPP together. You mentioned that before and I can kind of see it man because it's kind of like the sus you know it's almost like a sustenant of nanderloads you know what I mean because you're getting the fast acting you're getting the long acting. I really like it. Yeah especially I guess you'd have to would you I mean for anybody at home who was thinking oh I want to try this I would at least consider my total dosing I wouldn't look you know what I mean I'd maybe use half of each or how would you compose that. Yeah so I would personally start with testing decker. Obviously slightly lower than where you're going to be with peak dosing and then I would use I like to have incremental cycles so I like to go up a week usually week for and week seven but it varies depending on the person. Yeah so I would I would start with testing decker and then I would probably bring NPP in about week six week seven. Okay and that's that sort of last period would be let's say I was one into do a cycle or I would normally do a cycle of say one gram total. I would probably start at 600 for half of the cycle but push to 1200 for the other half of the cycle. Okay so my peak slightly higher but my exposure to it is less and I find that that's more beneficial than a longer exposure to a what on average would be a higher dose. Yeah yeah okay I think we're digging into some good stuff here I'm trying to think of one more finisher something that we I mean there's the classics right like test decker deep all the decker deep all or test with trend in mass which I think you did kind of mention and and I think that that's testing trend in mass is kind of the the bread and butter of contest prep that I think if you go to most national level shows you have to take a little show master and pre-mo now we've got I don't really understand personally well not anymore well now just I don't see the point in it I'd even run one of the over a powerful budget I can see the budget driven of it that you want to run complete pool pre-mo and you can't afford it's a master's a you know a cheap version a cheaper alternative should have said not version it is different but a cheap one. I do feel like they're more similar than different though yeah like there's some redundancy in there I try to look at like well are we getting redundant you know versus it's a measure is something we said like adding windstroll on top of mass at the end of a prep they're you're going to get something different out of that that's for sure you know that's actually not a bad little combo for the last couple of weeks oh yeah yeah yeah you know you want to you want to all again I mean on the harshest side but the trend and hey low for the last week is so is quite a hard one yeah yeah not a long term thing like you said last week or so yeah yeah yeah all right I hope we gave people some ideas and I'd be curious to hear if they have their own perfect pairs that they can share with us that would be fun to hear what? oh yes okay guys I gotta take a break to do the whole like share subscribe thing but I also want to say thank you to you the internet's kind of a weird place in case you didn't know and I am glad that we've put the community together that we have I'm grateful to read your comments in fact I know a lot of youtubers that don't read comments I read all of them and I try to get back to everybody so if you comment I will see it and I'll try to get back to you also the like button is absolutely free of charge you don't have to pay anything to hit it and it does help us out of ton it's not gonna like push us into your algorithm but it will help other people to hopefully find the show so if you like our stuff please try to help us out yeah that's it um you know what somebody made a really good point last week you know how you said have our expectations changed about cycles we had somebody who commented saying I think that people's goals have changed that we don't have as many people that are trying to become you know 300 pound monsters anymore you know people who are like oh Nick Walker that's too much I don't want to look like that that's not attractive you know name man thing is I think for Nick to be fair on Nick I think the big East off point about Nick's physique is actually his valicus fans yeah that's yeah that's a whole other kind of but I yeah but I think is is physique wouldn't look as on appealing if you didn't have the vascularity that you have okay let's say this I don't want to be big rami or you know in any of these guys uh crazy you know that you know that those looks are not what people want now people want or I mean the bomb stud you know which is not that it's achievable but they look more achievable to say to be fair there isn't many people going to be achieving the look of Nick Walker or big rami anyway so yeah I don't think people realize what level of evegenectics or dedication that sort of size text yeah it is something else but anyway yeah I think there's definitely something there I think without trying to sound like it was better in my day bullshit which is not that's all my thought process but I think the use of spectrum has changed significantly it was very niche very cliche very small underground fraternity 30 years ago yeah you know you were oddballs whereas now Jim culture and Jim life and even unobolic usage is much more commonplace you know I mean guys just didn't use gear unless they were seriously into compete you know training at a very high level where it is now gear is a accessory to get to go on holiday yeah yeah so I think there is an element to yeah just like it's a more accepted thing and another guy said guys nowadays want to stay on year round and they can't run those high doses year round in state as you know quote unquote healthy so they want to see what can they get away with for longer you know and I think there might be some truth to that as well I'm not there I don't know where we are with the the overall dosing sort of trend there's definitely a lot of talk of running lower doses and being more responsible but whether that's actually planning out into reality and people's usage not to sure I it depends I think on the group you're in you know we're talking about our YouTube listeners I think there's a vast now are a lot of people at least who are tier type guys but they're like I want to do a little more than this and I want to stay well that's what I think it's definitely happened is I think the TNT's come up emerged into what would have been a cycle yes and the cycles may have come down and we now have this big messy muddy pool of is it TNT's it's cycle there's not really a clear court for most people anymore yeah all right so we got a bunch of little extra questions you guys are welcome to comment with your questions get them on the next show if we don't get to your question and please post it again we try to get to everything but of course we can only do so many in one episode one of the common questions we get asked about you guys is what would you do differently with your body building if you could go back in time given all the experience and education I have today there's a number of things that I would have done differently one of them is that I would have started using college and sooner college it is one of the few supplements will actually rebuild connective tissue it took me tearing my super spinatus in 2021 to get with the program I used true nutrition's hydrolyzed beef college in I get the unflavered version I pay for it myself just like you guys do I use 20 grams a day makes it into my coffee it's totally unflavered you don't even taste it plus I use 10 grams of their micronized creatin. creatin has been shown to improve brain health especially for the aging brain I need that and of course you know we've always known about the muscle building effects so this is my morning routine every day and I'm encouraging you guys to do the same. use our code thank for savings plus it's the only way for them to know that this advertising is being heard otherwise they just think you're some random dude that clicked on an app. and not too much. all right thoughts on 500 milligrams a weekly test sip decka for 100 weekly for 12 weeks 8 to 12 weeks and then add trend at 200 bringing the decka down to 200 tests thing at 500 for the next six to eight weeks and wind stroke for the last three to four. he's 225 at 10 percent. so that's what 18 weeks total. six to eight weeks after eight to 12 so possibly up to up to 20. top. in my opinion that's a bit low. okay. it's a bit too bad in trend in at the end. I'd be wanting to reduce it. yeah 16 total. 14. yeah okay. there he goes. Dave is a great guy in great banter. he was huge back in the day and I like to think that he was the UK's Godzilla that the queen kept in a secret base to be released against the empire's enemies as he walks across the English channel roaring from his cycle and popping some halo. he made rich piano look small. popping oxies not yellow. yeah get it right. yeah come on now. loud me cage every now and again. hey it's a cd. that's a very long time ago. when you were locked in a cage and not even long it's a tiger. no I mean when I was big that that that was it actually feels like another lifetime I was. does it really? yeah. almost it been for 13 years. okay. 10. 10 since it stopped having can't be far off that. when did we do the 31st podcast go? like 2017. not this as in our very 16. when you interviewed me about under construction. 16. not so it's nine years anyway yeah. yeah. oh my god you were taking a lot of gear. you're like oh yeah I'm taking 20 at that interview you're like yep I'm taking 24 25 for Armour Growth a day and it makes me really tired. that's the main thing I noticed. geez. there's people who are doing that again. no no. Chase Irons has run some pretty high GH doses. he's blowing up with it too you know. yeah it's it's not the blowing up it's the fact that he doesn't stay when the when the GH goes. yeah uh did bodybuilding prep bloods looked okay after and progress in motivation was great so rather than tnt trt I went down to 700 test 300 mast added 75 decka for joints. been doing great got about six weeks until holiday before I'd plan to de-load and relax. question is when I come back I really want to blast my socks off for six weeks and for the fun of it just before a three-month health phase. thoughts on a thousand fifty testes 600 EQ 400 mast 300 trend E 50 anodero 15 yk 11. so he's going to combine anodero and yk 11. yeah I don't know about all this. what would you change or would you suggest to totally different cycle just interested in what you think so he's he's kind of like I want to do something really extreme guys. I would suggest not doing a cycle at all and having some time off because I think it all faces over jupers and he but made each of the room. I don't see that cycle being injured without problems particularly off the back of already being on for what 20 odd weeks. yeah he didn't say I guess. he's done a cycle then he carried on into it so he did a cycle then drop down to a gram. it was a prep cycle. yeah then drop down to a gram and then he's going to go straight into it. no. yeah. take a break. basically. that would be my opinion would be to take a break. I mean the end of the day is your life you do what you want with it just just accept the consequences of things don't work out how you expect them to but I would be starting to get concerned about the length of exposure to high doses. yeah if you came in super fresh yeah you could potentially get away with four to six months of taking the piss but then you get a need an extended period of time away and the issue then is actually coping with that mentally because when you've been on high dose for so long these are difficult adjustment mentally to come back down particularly when you go and come back down into property RTO which I don't offer about it and I'm maybe doing them in a misjustice here but I wouldn't surprise me if he's TIT's significantly above what would be classes natural wages. yeah so I'd just to be concerned about total exposure and overload and overall stress is in top scene. I mean he had some blood work posts come without knowing what those blood figures were. It's very difficult to give any favor opinion as to whether I think the risk is worth the reward but I do think we start pushing to a risky situation with the plan blast. yeah yeah especially the dosing is basically a little over a gram a test then a gram combined of EQ and mast then 300 trend E 50 anoddrawal workout days in 15 YK 11 daily I'm a bit confused on the YK it's a bit like ordering two big marks and two super shakes and then saying you got an adiacoke because you're watching me show you you know it's a don't see the point in point in the YK. yeah yeah I've seen the results I've seen with YK's to me at least seem similar to that of anoddrawal. I feel like I'm just kind of like ordering a big back into big back. yeah I just I don't see I don't see with that level of exposure I mean we took it to an off-gram. I don't see YK three in a drop in the ocean now you know I mean I don't think you're gonna perceive any changes or difference we're gonna say YK. yeah all right um let's see here another banger do you guys think there is too much information out there not making do you think there's too much information out there making training over complicated push-fold legs and lift big our weights used to be all that we were told I don't know man I get it yeah I do think there is yes but I do think there's benefits too you know what I mean I'm with you on that I mean I do think things are over thought this phrase is that I have a very strong dislike too one has the initials of R I R you know like R R huh no and the other one has the initials ppl you don't like push-fold legs you don't push-fold legs and all show me a muscle that pushes and pushing with my chest I'll push-o show me a muscle that pushes I my chest I'm going to pull you across every muscle I post every muscle pulls the peck souls the upper arm I think it I think it the peck pulls push-o show me no no no no no so extends power by expanding and you know that's a stop being you're not even trapped here it's 18 twice no no I'm for real I'm trying to think I think you're here's the thing though so what do you call it then pull pull it you know when you bench fresh yes the action of pushing the bar if you chest but from a most good point of view the peck is pulling the upper arm across so I don't like the this may sound a bit nerdy but I don't like the fact of what saying pull does in the way of how it plants an image in your mind because I'm very much into thinking how the muscle moves and muscles don't pull but they pull objects muscle so cut push sorry they get the push-o show I can push objects with my muscles has tanya says the limb push is Scott but the muscle cut push thank you tanya sorry you have to endure this idiot but he's all I've got but yeah so I think I think there is obviously more to training than you know lift every weight grunt grunt yeah smash smash and I think training can be quite technical but I think there's also this massive danger of disdainting up your own asshole with the technicality and and though I am a massive advocate of correcting engagement proper form once you've achieved that I'm a massive I've got to push them walking in weight as well yeah I think that maybe that gets a little lost in the technique I feel like we talk about that kind of stuff like all all of the older guys talk about that I just want to be careful to not discredit or be little the idea because there is so much and I have learned a lot you know what I mean by oh no I mean at the new stuff yeah no I'm a big technicality found yeah but not at the expensive effort and I think that's where it gets a bit I do not understand reps and reserve because how do you know how many reps you've got yeah you you have to have a lot of experience understood oh you can have a real fight yeah yeah but you know you don't know because on any given day you'll perform as particularly with a lesser weight can confound you buy a couple of reps absolutely so I'm not a big fan of this reps in river I'm not a big fan of holding back but I am a fan of listening to what your body's telling you push to the greatest of your capability and good form of control ensure that you're not removing the stimulus from the target muscles so you're not just moving weight you're actually exercising the muscle you're trying to exercise yeah and and if you know if recovery is compromised in fine take a day off yeah I don't like scheduled days off in the sense of oh I'm doing a d-load week why just for the sake of yeah it's on my plan if you need it yeah but if you don't need it look let down crack on yeah so stuff like that that irritates me about the new the new school sort of approach but yeah I mean you know I mean it's like philosophy I think he had a lot of very good quality information when it came to his training techniques but I think he just took it too far and and lost the sort of you know at the end of the day we need to be making an effort and pushing as hard as we come to stimulate further adoption which is growth yeah yeah and we have talked a lot about the reps about like the reps are reserve technique and I've come around to it a good deal but my caveat is is that you really do have to spend years in the gym understanding what reps in reserve are and it might not be perfect like but I can get pretty close if I'm doing two reps in reserve I know when I'm I've got like one or two reps left in me because it's a real that's the thing is that a lot of these people that are adopting it without having had a look a solid background in training haven't gone to failure for a decade straight so they don't know they have no idea so yeah I do think there is that's the unfortunate trap is there's a high potential for you know guys to do five reps in reserve seven reps in reserve and not realize it but if you'd been say like Paul Barnett he was a DC training guy earlier on and so he did a lot of DC he knows what failure is and he might not be getting it perfect but he's also now a guy who's older he's able to train without destroying himself every time that he trains and he's then able to get back in and do it again but when I see him train man his his train because I've watched him and his stuff it's very hard like it could be he can misconstrued his failure if it was somebody else that sat you know what I mean I get that it's yeah it I mean I've deliberately obviously I'm being a bit of an awkward twerver but it does it retain some of the crap that you see yeah that and the people who they make reaction posts to Ron was telling me about one the other day where it was Jeff Neppard and Mike Israttel were arguing or debating over like whether he had more reps in reserve or something like that and whether he should have gone to failure and what failure is or something and this person who was like had no muscle at all was like you know is it Mike right or is Jeff right or see none of that neither of them are right they both couldn't be more wrong the truth is that blah blah blah blah and the science says this and that it's like it's somebody who's nobody like literally a nobody well my old argument is he if what you're saying is correct then why isn't it develop your yeah and I know that's a bit yeah I get that but you know at the end of the day the guys that have developed for Ziggs all tend to say similar things that's a good point is the guys that haven't developed it to me they come out with all this fucking woo our technical ballokes and it's like sometimes you just need to lift it away mate ask Cuba what it peaks he's grown a lot of muscle dude yeah as he's Cuba's got very technical but he also he's he's put some good solid timber and he's stay strong he was very strong you know in Muslim good timber mate it does um oh that's what you meant when you said some good timber I thought you meant like he got bigger like his muscles got bigger you that was a British term for he moves a lot of weight I understand now I literally didn't get that at first I really didn't welcome to the buys go um all right can we talk about movies now so how about some info on how to say be on T RT and do a cycle with something else but also how to properly cruise back just test with just test to keep the gains I feel like you would take what you're taking your T RT and then you would add something to that and then you would stop adding something to that and you keep training hard and keep eating and doing the things that you did all right yeah I'm a bit yeah I'm a bit confused on the question because it's yeah I think it's uh I think it there's not really the only thing I would potentially add is that I would be tempted to possibly just when you stop the extra compound that you may stop the T RT for a couple of weeks just let you know what's come back down and then restart the T RT that would be my only addition to that but over the night it's not really any more complex than that you know you had just a second compound it or increase your primary compound yeah because you don't obviously ask the one it's like well and then and then lower your doses to continue on all right um Ben and T RT for three years seen some improvement in enjoy energy and lifestyle moved up the dose to 200 milligrams after two years then 250 milligrams didn't notice much spoke to the doctor and ended up at 300 milligrams after all the upping of the dose why would it be that I don't see a healing effect in the muscle and sore often I'm about 115 pounds scale of muscle I mean I'm about 115 pounds scale of muscle in 220 pounds um the canvines these you know anyways 220 um looking into your videos what's the connection of testosterone to muscle mass in milligrams I've only heard over the years that in the UK or Europe countries that it can be upwards to one milligram per pound so he's saying the bigger you are more test you yeah this is some of the the broadrick works on and it's something that I don't see translating but work hmm so try again and say I'm still a large individual okay it's a wrong type of large but I'm still a large individual and yeah I need 30 minimal doses of testosterone to get cord blood levels so my tatties 50 make twice a week okay um you know it's low as the particularly comparison to a lot of stuff stateside I would want to know where he's dosing supporting him on his testosterone levels because I don't think the issues is drugs yeah I think this is diet food because at the end of the day if he was eating enough food and it was eating the excess you would be gaining weight but it would just be fat so he's not gaining weight the simple fact is he's not eating enough or he's not eating the right stuff because it respective if you were in a calorie excess to gain size if you work building muscle for whatever reason you'd still gain weight you'd still gain but it would just be fat you'd be gaining not muscular tissue because any calorie exercise is going to increase your physical mass just with the correct training and the right selection and nutrition our mass increased tends to be muscle muscle rather than fat mass so the fact that he's gone up to 300 milligrams and he's still not getting anywhere just to me that the issue's food now it might be that he's not absorbing it correctly and he's not getting good nutrient transit because of poor absorption but there's something wrong with the food even in how much he's putting in his mouth what he's putting in his mouth or how well the body's utilizing the food yeah the gear allows you to better your life's food well at there is also you mentioned training I wonder what is training us like if he's sort like like you can't okay I'll put it this way can you do 500 sets of bench press on cycle and recover from that in one week you know like 500 sets through the week no of course you can't how about 400 no how about 300 sets there's so the number is going to be somewhere lower than that how many sets is he doing like what's his volume look like and is he getting enough intensity to generate muscle growth you know I would think yes look at the nutrition but also have a hard look at your training too because he should be able to recover naturally right you know and I mean from like now care how big he is if you should be able to recover from your workouts gear isn't going to magically just like make that happen so if you're doing too much you know it's not going to work for you you're not going to yeah I I generally find it hard to do too much though not impossible and more a case of just not consuming you know yeah I don't always I guess depends on the individual too because what if he's like a guy like me I was 1205 pounds when I started lifting seriously in my mid to late 20s you know I was never four years ago now it was it was actually let's see I was mid mid to late 20s yeah that was like 1990 yeah 85 to be exact yeah it was you 16 now yeah yeah yeah you know I mean though like there are guys out there that they struggle like you know they struggle to grow so do you have your struggle to grow Dave I didn't put it at the same time I didn't slacker you that yeah I lived and breathed training um I would literally go to bed on a night I'd meditate and then I would rehearse the next day's workout and I thought I what I mean rehearse I mean from the point of stepping into the gym I would run through my head sitting down getting a coffee drinking the coffee stepping up walking into the gym sitting on the bench doing my warm ups that then my next set then my and I'd run through the whole workout in my head in bed the night before yeah and he got to the point when I was starting to get pumped you know you'd got massive ones but I'd actually get a little bit of a bumping whenever mostly was I was that was concentrate you know yeah so I heavily invested in in the sort of mental aspect of training and pushing and going beyond what you thought you were capable of and I mean I had a very simple mantra was on those working sets if I got the rep and it didn't matter how hard that rep what how long it took me to get I did another or I attempted another even if I just lowered it or even if I lowered it and started pushing it didn't move I'd stay there and carry on pushing for a few seconds yeah but I had this just insect deep mantra of you know always one more always one more yeah this guy says thoughts on the doctor giving me 0.5 milliliters of test every 10 days so I'm guessing it's 100 every 10 days and they said well what are your test levels and he responded by saying but I feel lousy yeah but let's be in time I'm not I'm not saying in this this scenario because if it's a single ester then yeah you're gonna get quite a drop off after 10 days oh yeah so he's definitely not the the most ideal pro called so I fully agree that there's possibly much more efficient ways of running it but it might surprise people to know that when you feel crap and you have low tests that sometimes increasing that test doesn't make you feel amazing because there are some times over issues like stress what diet shit sleep yeah amazing drugs don't kill or everything it is pretty funky 100 that's less than you're taking right yeah that's uh that it's not just the dosing it's the the the timing between as well I mean that's quite if it was sourced I could sort of see some logic in it but if it's single ester I don't see the sense because you are literally gonna be let's say a hundred and more put you I so a hundred make put you out let's say 24 yeah by all things being equal you're gonna be 10 12 but at the time you go to your next injection that's UK talk guys so yeah it is yeah I speak English not American East we'll say you know put it at 600 7 600 and then it knocks you down by the time you take your next shot to three yeah so yeah he's not gonna feel great on that so I don't I don't get that dosing bro called first some doctors just aren't with it man I I had my doctor initially wanted me to do 100 every two weeks so you know that's and then it's just where she came from thankfully we're not on that program you know though we we we learned we got educated um most we have your deaf you got a couple more do you have some but you have some wisdom for the day for us too you say it's such a sarcastic way because you know I don't and it's just like you're so big you I'm gonna see you next Tuesday as far as somebody's out right yeah that was not that you made me chocolate that really didn't make me chocolate there were no reason for it as well don't decide why yeah I agree you know easily if you can only add one compound to test what would it be and I asked him I was like well what's your goal fat loss muscle gain and he said the goal would be to gain muscle more test more test yeah not blocked that no I didn't see that was two compounds I think was mass I would go dick every day yeah I know he's getting I know he gets a bit of hate now after the heart studies and I I understand that um and I don't want to check it too lightly in that sense but but yeah it's if you're talking about the pharmacology I was good I could every day but I also don't see any reason why you can't just run multi-test yeah it's a boring answer though you don't have me in like it but I agree I agree 100% I do it's very nice Dave removed this hot filter off is microphone which he's been going like this with all day the whole time he's like so what I would suggest doing is take 500 milligrams and take some time over your cycle see you next Tuesday that's our came from I probably did something like that probably yeah all right I don't think you to see you next Tuesdays go oh I thank you Dave I really appreciate that I think you're pregnant fish pregnant fish I don't know what that means twat oh thank you um all right I'm well wanting to compete women's physique currently I'm on my second cycle 10 milligrams of anava per day for 10 milligrams a day for 10 weeks I'm considering adding another compound to enhance my results what would be the compound to stack with anava for someone in my position I said to her you know we can talk about this my thought would be that if you're on your second cycle ever 10 milligrams of anava and you're already in it like 10 milligrams and ever 10 weeks is a pretty decent cycle for a second cycle and if she's getting some like I would say this focus on getting everything you can out of this cycle before because she's already started the plan you know what I mean I don't know how far but we'll say she's halfway in instead of adding something else doing something else like see what you can give this a fair shake first get everything you can out of it and then re-evaluate you might not even need to go up huh yeah I think I think people sometimes seem to be very opposed to running the same cycle again you're still growing yeah I guess still growing off the same site we we I don't know it's it's probably a bit of the mentality that takes you into the sport I suppose but we do tend to look to do more rather than you know we if we stay at the same dosing then it we almost view it as going backwards we're actually if it's creating results stay there get the most out of it for as long as you can because there is a point when you just can't go up at yeah another great show my question is is there anything you would do before during or after a long haul flight blood pressure lower doses cut HTH just take baby aspirin would love to know your thoughts obviously two concerns with flights are water retention from roses or blood clots and getting hot with gear and depending on where you going go we go and don't take your shops on the plane put them in the hold luggage to get rather funny if I needals in your carrier dude I did that on accident once I had a 3cc barrel with a 19 gauge on it and I went like traveling around and I headed in my carry on and I got to like a stop between and I'm like oh this has just been like in the front pocket you can just reach in and grab it nobody said anything yeah I flew and got to where it was going and was searching for some of it in my carry on I found needles found sorry found gear I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry but yeah so blood clots and water retention so I do think that potentially depend on a length of flight that it might be worth dropping the G8 for a few days prior just so you're not adding to that water retention issue aspirin 80 milligrams a day for a week time prior will you tell people do this before a flight no just don't you have somebody's particularly concerned okay no not it's almost people fly perfectly you know I would if you have if you're worried or you have issues these other things you can do to safeguard against it okay yeah so I'm gonna say I've never told any plenty of taking it no no no I generally speak it I don't I don't it's not a problem but if if somebody is it's like I get really bad water retention when I fly that's because of the kidneys but it is I mean I can put four inches on my waist from water okay so I have to do a directly protocol if I'm flying really um otherwise I'm the quiet uncomfortable with it to be fair and I watch what I eat and everything else as well around that same reason so yeah all depends on your experience in problems with it but most most people will be fine unless you're up or run a heavy you know heavy cycle or your carrying huge amounts amount I mean I would imagine like like when the world's strong man travel the war retention can be a bit of a problem for those guys yeah I've been tuned to Keelo that's a potential for a lot of water I've only ever worried with competitors competing and it's not like an excessive or dangerous just like hey it could change your look but I've never had a situation with anybody where it's been detrimental you know we we're aware you know but we and we usually just manipulate water a little bit you know everybody's bigger some people can drink water all the way through some people it's better to keep it lower you know I think for 99% of people travel is not going to be a problem yeah if you were doing a 15 hour flight or submit ridiculously long like that then I might be a little bit more right let's just do exercise I'd just just to play it safe because it's such a long flight yeah but for the most part I wouldn't be concerned but if if you work and send those other things I'd be looking up we did 15 hours to Korea and then one hour lay over or more hour and a half and then 10 hours to Australia so yeah I'd love to go to Australia but two things really put me off one is that flight and two is the amount of things that I can fucking kill you yeah yeah we made lots of there's lots of big bitey things even the platypus has poison cute when a baby's obviously in a baby while they're so cool man what they call now it's Daphth um I can't let the cold the baby's a cold something I know that platypus is not the that's what we're all yeah well we could yeah you'll be able to see the huggeys in the hug guy yeah they're beautiful they're majestic creatures they have been sending me like each week I get at least a couple of videos about different different species of haggus different you know types I hope we get to see at least a couple of those there's a couple of them I really have my heart sat on the snowball heat one is is quite cute yeah yeah I want to the one with a white one toft on his head yeah yeah can you you can cook them too all right mm yeah good good tender yeah it's spicy this spicy yeah more than like a peppery spice no on a like a courier spice you know last week when we talked about your uh your arms in the photo shop I went back and I grabbed the actual picture off of your Facebook so I was stalking your Facebook page and I posted that on the show next to the thumbnail that we use just to say hey here's the original picture um but doing that I went all the way back in your history like I went all the way back to your first pictures you ever posted some of your early pictures were of your monster truck that's what you're talking about you never told us I think you have told us about your your monster truck you told me about it guys did you know the Davies Devam monster truck and he took people for rising it I used to race it you raised it too hmm did you race the same one because you had like a monster blast yeah yeah so the when them the months there was a monster truck series it started in the UK it wasn't associated with monster jammer anything like they had high hopes it would be at some point but it was very grassroots and obviously running in a monster truck is incredibly expensive so I chose to it was an old school truck so it was not least from trucks so it was a very very old actually it was a Canadian truck original really yeah and we put seats in the back and made it into a bit of a hybrid you know race right trucks that way we could get a revenue off the truck when we went racing it in order to so it's a poor race it okay you guys hear by the way do you hear the the lambs I just there he was there he was it's amazing so yeah I used to take people to be a rides in it they would pay then would you drive over cars with it and stuff or what really that seems to be they've to sign a waiver for that I don't know we never bought that I feel like you need a good waiver for that now it is and we it to be fair we we probably were a bit closer to that we we I've had a grown man come off it cry all right any advice of the week for a stave I need a pee okay okay there's a pee does that mean there's a there's a there can be a man I have never podcasted with anybody where there's lambs bang in the background it's really warm in the moment so it's lovely yeah and advice advice advice advice I don't actually really how much for this week and I will very basic simple just look after yourselves and I know that sounds really sort of corny and obvious but in the sense of you know take some time out for yourself get a bit of quite time get a bit of you time look after yourself both not just physically but mentally and I think mentally is the one where the world struggles with the most pleased those I think generally as a populist our mental health is pretty crap yeah it's good take it and that's what's it's awful EW muscle fitness shadow to elixine Emily Emily's nice Alex is a see you next Tuesday so what you're gonna say I actually don't like that word it's funny because that's a very British word don't like it I've you've got to pee me off for me to use it properly I mean yeah you know a bit of fun to maybe but if you actually aim you say it with any sort of feeling you've proper peat me off yeah I've never heard you actually I know that you mentioned it it's not in your repertoire no I don't like the word yeah all right um some reason I don't know what I'm just yeah yeah here we can't say it we're not a lot technically like we're not a lot to say in the US I would have to get a lot of trouble you on the other hand you have the right like you're allowed to it's part of your culture yeah it's strangely is part of the standard British vocabulary yeah you know and and and even used as a compliment yes yeah um I um I um and if you wanted to hear the word used a lot I think um gang I don't know what was it um I'd tell you about it with a mobland I think I think it comes up a lot in that TV series oh it does yeah yeah we still have to we've got it at that in the queue we're gonna watch that one next I quite like it all right we've pretty good you guys tuned in thanks for being here go to evalblutanelsis.com get your labs done by Dave if you're in the UK as well as strong sports go to strong sports dot com and you can get some great health and performance supplements over there great health stacks supplement source dot CA4 Canadians and of course true nutrition dot com guys next episode we're gonna knock out a bunch of patreon questions so be sure to comment with questions for us we're gonna be a fun show and of course uh better you dot what online better you letter you dot online to check out Dave's coaching app how much is that per month basically it's probably day pound a day so basically you can sign up for you know just this month even if you wanted to test it out so you think and you know if you make some progress then hey stick with it it's a lot cheaper than hiring one of us as a coach even then and each strong news open day on the third and may but obviously that alone you really relate to people in the live because I don't think the episode will be out it won't be well it won't be out it's a it'll be close but yeah anybody in live stream go out if you're in the UK how do what do you mean it's their their open day their their just so they've moved the moved units I don't think they've moved very far I think they've moved over the road okay but they're having an open day uh broad rigs doing a free seminar cool I think there's some like dead lifting workshops and MMA workshops because rigs right into his MMA um so yeah I think there's quite a few things going on are you gonna be there no no okay unfortunately I have over engagements that I had already committed to before he told me about fair enough guys for another episode of the podcast with Dave and me Scott we'll see you soon thank you guys thanks Dave yep no problem

And this is something that I've shut to a lot of people with that used to be called hard gainers that needed all this food And it's like you didn't need all this food. It's just that you wasn't digesting half of it And your body was just inflamed and you were super insulin resistant because you just rushed your weight gain That's all it is So your body essentially should be responsive and then allergy like to get for all this is like when you sell a count fire Right if you keep throwing small little logs on that fire the fire keeps getting bigger Yeah, if you was to sell a fire and feel just the one big fucking love in the fire and guess what happens? Just get a smother it out just a small bit out What's up guys? Welcome back to Think Big Body Building Media I'm Scott McNaly and of course we are back again with your favorite drummer Could but challenge. Yeah, what's going on man? Back welcome back I can promise that I will most likely not be able to hold myself back from tapping the table I've even had a comment about you tapping the table. I apologize in advance Yes, that's just the you might not happen. I know I never know you have to watch that episode of find out I tell you your passionate you know you get into it. You can't help it I know we had a bunch of list of questions. We'll see if we get to those and you guys are always welcome to comment with questions And hey, we appreciate all the feedback. We got so much feedback on that last episode Cuba it was really cool. We connected to a lot of people We did get a few questions off the back of that plus comments questions all that stuff helps to boost us up Your likes are huge so if you'd like this show Please hit the like button and if you're new here We'd love to have you long for everything We did we got several podcast each week and by the way in the description I take Cuba too because you're doing a bunch of awesome stuff on your channel man all the time So I got to give you a huge shout-out on everything you're doing super inspirational quick clips long videos You got it all over there, man Appreciate it. I'm not yeah, I can't put the like it so it's going so what's up today? I got this note from you It was basically you know talking on what's up and you would said basically like planning your year out how to make Your long progress and and basically have it forming a bodybuilding and setting up a timeline Yeah, do you ever find that you can't struggle with having a sense of direction I'll never judge it times where people send a few lost what a building oh Yeah, so yeah, especially after a show if they're 16 weeks out man they've got it figured out but outside of that The biggest reason why I Trulubilly people feel lost is the news that sense of direction So if you do not have a well prepared or a well-planned timeline for your competitive season and your year You will feel lost because you have no sense of direction you have no kill clear goals So essentially What keeps most people deliver? It's having that gold right for good right? Yeah, when you are 16 weeks out you will always work harder When you are six weeks out you will always work harder Now think about this right you can break down your year into blocks and weeks where you almost periodize your entire year into phases That you have pre-planned and now this doesn't necessarily mean that you will stick to these phases exactly But it's much easier to actually follow our plan and be motivated and driven if you have a road Map and a clear sense of direction because when you have a clear sense of direction road map that is working towards a certain goal That might be 20, 30, 40 weeks away It's much easier to stay consistent and driven It's too of that goal if you just say to yourself Right, I'm going to compete for weeks. Yes, well if you don't know what you are going to do in that time frame You are going to get lost in the process because you don't know what sense of direction to take I'm supposed to be gaining all that time do I need to pull back? Do I need to do a hell of a is what do I need to do now to get the most out of the So where will we start Scott? I think first would be an athlete's assessment with Assessing what the athletes needs are for the time from the headset So let's use Scott an example right Scott come in an example on up. Yeah, I'd be happy to man Yeah, ready to go all right. Let's do it Right, so what we can do is Essentially say right Scott is going to be competing in Shall we say 8 pull 20 26 Sounds good so that gives us that gives us a little less than a year than right about Jesus a 40 or 40 more weeks exactly yeah So that is a long that us Time isn't it you do a lot with that or you could do a lot of nothing with that until 16 weeks out To a lot of nothing with absolutely so The first thing we need to do set that goal there, right and then while I do it there's reverse engineer Exactly what we are going to do in terms of the process to take you there Yeah, so if we are aiming to have you ready for 19 for April 2026 Roughly knowing your background. Let's give you an example that I'm going to work in with you for next 40 more Right, yeah, that will give me an idea of how long you will need to get your shape for ideally I'm going to give you 20 weeks to get in shape because I know that you can get in shape pretty easily right Pretty pretty really Absolutely yeah, pretty pretty easily but the goal is to make sure that will bring you big We give you enough time to be able to manage fatigue. We can be enough time to be able to then peak and ideally What my goal is for you is to make sure you are ready up two weeks out Okay, is that fair enough? Yeah, absolutely I feel I'll spare it off right so essentially what we do is this I would set the goal of Having you ready for 2019 for April then I would get the timeline up and what I would do is then reverse engineer the prep from that timeline date So 20 prep reversing that back and what I actually do and I don't you probably don't use it What you might do at my point sure or I actually have timeline set on my Google sheets Okay, and that is a timeline that I do set that Give you Basically four time frames with the goals and a breakdown of it so clients can actually see that clearly and they could go into any time and and view it And that way They can actually see exactly what they are working towards and what essentially needs to happen Within the process yeah So that's something that I like to definitely work with on half set And look the time as that sets are often to change or so essentially if my 40 weeks last for you Scott 20 week prep that leaves now 21 weeks of progress right? Yep Let's say we have just completely an eight week diaphase So you are leaning off now to have a runaway for a 16 is a growing Right, which would be a great place to be at right as you're trying to gain more muscle you know into the show Yeah, so right now we've got 16 weeks to go yeah, so breaking this down 16 to grow in followed by a six week prep phase That's 22 weeks already into a 19 week prep 19 to 20 weeks That's your timeline set Now When you have that timeline set you can then set different goals and structures in that 16 week push-up So in that 16 week push-up let's say Scott we need to gain 20 pounds of tissue If we gain more than 20 pounds you are going to be sloppy and that will then pause at a less than optimal show say optimal right a lot of people like optimal these days Yeah, and then we can say in our language If you gain more than 20 pounds Scott you're going to be too fat to getting shape and great in a condition that we actually need right Yeah, goal is to have your blutes peeled inside out and I mean all the weight into your also right and to do that To do that you want hard blinks you want peeled lose guess well you can have to start pretty lean You're not gonna be able to stop fat yeah, that's a fact So essentially We are going to set framework for that 16 week push-up And we are going to give you a goal for the rate of gain that we want to achieve over the 16 weeks Yeah, so I've agreed We've got 20 week try Sorry, we've got 20 pounds divided by 16 weeks that gives us 1.25 1.25 1 pound And 2.5 per week on average right right What are we going to do now Scott to achieve that rate of gain? We're going to get on three grams of sauce first of all and Listen that is that is where the next conversation happens is How much drugs do we need for you to come up 20 pounds over these 60 weeks? Yeah, roughly Without gassing the death or way in in your risk to the world ratio Yeah and keeping in mind like you said too We're right at the back end of a prep by the time we finish this, you know Absolutely, so we'll all have six weeks of health days before So essentially what I'd like to do is this I'm going to use the six week window to escalate the drugs to be pink those stuff We're going to use them in half the 10 weeks Okay, so let's give you number for you Scott and other you like testing the cube right We are going to start with 500 tests. I'll give you a cuter to gain with I'll take it then and then I'm going to go right We'll run that for first few weeks two weeks two weeks two little sponsors like that guess well And extra hundred test extra really cute will not for a couple more weeks And then we'll titrate up on the fix six weeks period or two let's give you a cap Your peak del synch of 1000 and 500 milligrams per week. Okay interesting Then we will hold that for ten weeks Assess the blood work at the end of the push-up and then the blood recovery assessment will then you as a guideline of what we need to do for the health phase and pre-preface To then get you ready for the contest season I think that's great. I do have a question for you that why use the six weeks at the beginning to Titrate the doses up Versus just starting with peak doses Do things Initially initially when you are lean and I think when you are drug start to come up You simply don't need as much to see a good response. Yeah, so it's like me saying Right, which transition to a push-up phase now now Scott right from a deficit Why are we only adding 500 calories instead of adding 1000 calories? Yeah, yeah because you don't need it It's exactly the same thing you don't need it you do I do when you do need it It's interesting you say this Cuba because you know years ago Well years ago we used to front load everything and I think a lot of that had to do with Cycles were a very short period of time and we all came off did PCT and recovered So we had to be in and out in eight to ten weeks I think that was a big reason for the front loading But after that my thought had always been Let's get up to those peak doses as some especially with long-esters because they're gonna take a long time to build anyway That said I'm starting to see I'm more in alignment with what you are saying now Where I might start a guy out with say the heat we're gonna do 600 tests 600 EQ We might start with three and three and get what we can out of that for a while because he's not gonna have to worry about coming off to recover We could extend the life of that cycle and continue getting more maybe six eight weeks and that's the reason I asked you because I thought you might have been along that same My frame, but we don't really talk about that a lot on the channel so I like to you brought that up Why I personally did and yeah, I have found where personal experience for myself and clients Especially some of the clients that I have worked recently a few pros that used to have the approach of right my coach said This is a cycle and that's what we were on for 20 weeks. Yep, and it was it was actually going from like 400 make up to two and a half grams Shray away yeah, and it's like what they would know it is Progress is excellent for the first 10 weeks. Yeah, and then after 10 week window Because they also rush the food up and they're selling flamed They're not just inflamed from the drugs, but they're also inflamed from way too much food way too quickly getting body fat too high too quickly And they guess what after 10 week window nothing happens the body is just unresponsive and then what do you do then? Do you add more food? Jai more drugs? Well, what is that left to odd you've used all of the tools up already? You painted yourself in a corner at that point And you're putting body fat on at a rapid rate if you were right food up about the gate now I'm with you 100% I mean I've always done that with contest preps, but it's only been in the last two About three years so I started looking at that in off-season as well information Jai starts her and this is all Basically coming back real from the experience that I've had With experience of different cycles and doing different methods, right? And I've done it every single way possible now both myself and clients So you get to see a pattern right with yeah, what is the most? What things what what can I do Scott right? To get the absolute most progress And for me that is a patient escalation in drugs Working up to our peak doses over six days week window maybe yeah, and then holding up peak dose for another 10 to 12, 30, 40 weeks based of how I feel in a good work I guess what's got if I went to my peak dose of straight away that cycle probably would have been cut short by eight nine weeks yeah, yeah now knowing what we know about muscle growth and how slowly actually happens You cannot force muscle growth It's a slow process. It's a process of adaptation. It takes time. It takes consistency and it takes a slow steady surplus with enough gear to see progression You cannot force muscle on with food or steroids you try and force muscle on of steroids you're just getting flamed You try and force muscle on with food you just get fat It's a strategy that you have to take where you layer one over the other over time And then guess what is the most important thing then that fuels fuels the muscle growth when you get your nutrition gear on point What's that the training of course so in that 16 week windows go we would be working on setting Training performance goals training performance parameters across your main lifts I want to see your lifts progressing if you're a little not progressing Whatever you decide or you execution whatever you phone clips would have you you're recovery Wherever you evolve you were made to the lower the volume down when made to change the training split Made to change the frequency you would have you the set of constantly to make sure the needle is moving up Your body weight has to be coming up consistently you have to be getting Progressive the stronger in the gym even moving more load or overall doing a degree of more stimulus achieved in various different ways It has to happen Scott if none of these things are moving forward you are not adding muscle tissue So therefore Utilizing a timeline like this not only gives you a good guideline for your actual gear for your planning and preparation But it gives you a good guideline of what you need to do for a performance standpoint So if I knew you only had 16 weeks right to get there what I would pull the work in is I would post split that into three different training blocks Right I would have Probably five weeks of going all out Three days rest and repeat that three times that would take us up to 16 weeks And the way I would periodize is yes we implement rest as of when we need it But essentially Scott if you work hard enough train hard enough life sometimes gets in the way You will need to allocate some of these extra rest days in now and then when they are need this sure so Essentially I do like to have that as a precaution Imagine for most people that wanted this and train actually train hard enough. It's needed Now If I was to create that guideline for you and if I was to Put that into practice when you're checking in with me you're looking at your timeline You're seeing the weeks go by everything or week and then guess what it's only getting closer and close to me that that showday is Luminant room it so 458 period will literally go like this because you set all these Slow term goals, but also short term goals that your constantly working towards Constantly reviewing in constantly excessive and I think that's a huge one Just to make sure that not only you stay motivated but you stay driven and more importantly The the many thing that most people struggle with is accountability I think most people struggle with having that accountability in place and I think that's a huge one I think that really is a huge one now Scott is anywhere can I can share my screen Yeah, there actually is if you look down at the bottom where you can hit leave conversation and all that There's a button that says share I've hidden some of the some of the juicy stuff for myself All right because that's that's not for everyone to see Anyway, I'd like to show you my timeline All right, and I'll let's show some my notes for my entire offseason how I break things down for myself And how I break things down for clients so hope for that gives you an idea You can see everything clearly, you know, yeah, oh yeah 24 June 2024 that was my recovery phase maintenance Recovery phase is simply post shell phase I only did four weeks Scott because my blood work actually improved in prep and I didn't gas myself to death Which then I didn't really need that long to recover and get everything back improving okay, I finished up two thirty And I started my push up at two thirty eights I 240 so I only gained ten pounds in that recovery phase Which was just enough to regain some body fat and then have me feeling good now Look at the rate of gain now and look at the changes when you're trisha Can you see now the rate of gain isn't exactly a pound in a half per week Some weeks it's less some weeks it's more some week it's holding and some weeks it's coming down because Some of the body weight increases will be down to fluctuations in water from additions of compounds and again escalations of certain compounds that may actually have an impact on Underwaterway itself, but when you look at the body weight average and when you look at the push-up itself Which lasted and again Super patient right look at a time from here we started up 240 under push-up and it's pretty much 30 weeks in 32 week push-up done start that 240 finish it like to wait You go back after your d-loads, too don't you yeah, yeah a little bit a little bit a little bit so Every time I do load again big big shift up and as you can see that that's with no changing nutrition like that was the last change in nutrition here and it helped Okay, so In terms of changes from nutrition as you can see the hasn't really been that many changes. It's been nice and steady And I actually like to take smaller increases as of when they are needed and generally It's 250 calories at a time or even 200 calories at a time just to get me moving forward so as you can see The surplus that is required To gain muscle tissue is not very big Yeah So when you're taking consideration of what you actually need to influence muscle growth It's always always a small consistent surplus all the time It's not a case of just throwing a ton of calories in and expecting a huge return now Recovery phase completed That was like a bit of a bit of a bridge pulse push it face Where I enter kind of hold away and dropped a lot of it away as you normally wish and did some stem cells in Columbia at that time as well So my body was super fresh and then as you can see calories just means now it's got right And this is where we are right now a 30th of a June prep So check this out one calorie adjustment to kick start the prep Second calorie adjustment to get things moving Not much for third calorie adjustment Third calorie adjustment now And that has been in place since 20 at some pretty much end of April Yeah, I haven't made a haven't made a few changes since and the body weight is still coming down and I'm still getting later Love it man This is the merit and this is the benefit of not only a well timed timeline But also a well executed timeline where you are not getting too fat you are eating to your needs And you are doing only what's enough to get the rat response Yeah, yeah, I love it In the child you're if you're increasing 250 calories it is a 250 260 pound body builder that may be even less for a guy who's you know I like heavyweight guy who's gonna be 190 on stage it might be 32 grams of carbs, you know 40 comes a call start should get you move it if you're a smaller guy 34 grams of carbs that's all you need each and the huge point there is Scott is I Made small changes and I saw an immediate response of the back of those changes If you are making changes in enough season guys and girls and Your body is not responding It might be numerous things it's either you are not accurate when you're food You are either over eating or under eating or having way too much uncontrolled off-dland meals Where that's shoes and your body weight consists of every week so your actual surplus is much higher than you think it is Yeah, but also If you're interested in the ability shot because you're going too much right too quickly you are overgashing yourself and you are a little bit too stressed your body just won't respond So sometimes you need to re-eraluate yourself if you need And this is something that I've I've shocked a lot of people with that used to be called hard gainers that needed all this food and it's like You didn't need all this food it's just that you wasn't that adjusting half of it and your body was just inflamed and you were super Insolent resistant because you just rushed your weight gain that's all it is So your body essentially should be responsive and then allergy like to get for all this is like When you sell per campfire right if you keep throwing small little logs on that fire the fire keeps getting bigger Yeah, if you was to sell per fire and for all just the one big fucking love in the fire and guess what happens? Just get a smothery out just a little bit out the same principle applies with both Your contest preparation and your offseason I cannot stress the importance of having the self control To only do what's required when you are trying to gain muscle There will come a time where you need more volume the will come a time we need more drugs There will come a time we need more food. Well guess what's got you don't need to do it all at once It needs to be happened at the right time guess what Your progress thought you might need a bit of a call is now But if you had made that change before you actually need it you are using your tools at prematurely the same thing applies When you are in contest prep Yes, you could be doing more Yes, you could be eating less Is it required at this moment time for you to keep progressive? No, yeah, it isn't yeah, that's a great that's the the big thing and I know that people get excited I think you figured that out after you've been in it for a while with the prep side of things You know you can't start with two hours of cardio and no carbs because where you're going to go from there you painted yourself in a corner Mate I'm gonna use myself as a example here not not to not to kind of like beat too fucking Oring but I haven't made a food change in like what 10 weeks now Scott yeah, I love that now I promise you It requires a lot of self control for me to not just be like fuck this I am not hungry. I don't feel like I'm on prep Yeah, now in weeks out I should be feeling like I'm on prep but like well why do I need to do that now when I'm clearly getting gifted progress? Yeah, I am I may as well just keep riding the wave of progression and guess what? It will come a time where I'm going to feel a pitch But now is not the time now is the time to just Keep focusing the process stay calm don't make any rush of decisions And the biggest mistake as he people make is they want to have novelty Yeah people struggle to just stay patient and struggle to just focus on the process and they almost require that change when Essentially sometimes the best thing can do is not change a thing and I mean listen It's not easy to keep checking in every week and be like well I don't need to make any changes. I'm getting leaner Food stays the same step say the same drugs stay the same we don't need to be doing anything else Stay on the course that is it. You don't need more you don't need less That's all you have to do and sometimes I mean it's the hardest thing to do ever Or I promise you I if you can harness that and if you can harness that self control It's simply going to be the most valuable thing that you can ever ever do it really will be So you know too kuba that also goes for the coaches you know because I feel like there is a pressure as a coach Some things to when I feel like you need to do something different you need to do and I'll catch myself I'm like sometimes if I don't have the check the check-ins I take the longest with are Sometimes the check-ins where there's nothing to change because if there's nothing to change I'm asking myself well what am I is there anything I'm missing here maybe I should dig a little bit deeper and I find myself spending more time Whereas if I see the change instantly I'm like oh, let's do this go But it's those changes what those check-ins where you don't need changes that they can hang you up It can it can be I think a trap to make yourself feel self important to be like oh, let's do this Let's change this you know no Versus seven weeks eight weeks on the same diet and you know Sometimes they have to have the confidence to say like in an explain Sometimes you have to show the pictures even and say this is what you look like before This is what you look like now this is why we're not changing anything You know because there is a pressure I think from the athlete to make the coach want to do things and then there's a pressure from the coach to to feel self important Absolutely and and you know what this is where some I think sometimes You've got to remind yourself that People are paying you To get them the most pro-resppossible people Not paying you to entertain them in a fashion yeah and people are not paying you to be a cheerleader People are paying you to bring the best out of them Sometimes I think when you explain it in such fashion to clients I think then they're appreciated But that is all for timelines. I'm not gonna keep repeating that and be the old drug I think it's time to move on to next topic before people that start to Start to gouges as out of it like right guys. Let's go move on right The one thing that I want to touch on is it is just a little bit on on the habit creation right because a lot of people are I mean glp1 dry it's right the use of glp1s now is it's crazy ever's using yeah Now one thing that I want them dig into and mention is this You tell us in a glp1 is not going to make hope for your lack of discipline If you are already that the person that gives in at any moment a glp1 is not going to change your Shit or habits around nutrition around your lifestyle Before you consider taking any glp1s Please please work on dialing in Your habits Controlling your eating and making sure that you are not taking a glp1 just to Set aside some of the mistakes that you are making would be data process Because I think some I think a lot of people are using them for that purpose and look I'll be the first one say it when it comes to different processes and when it comes to Everything body of the coaching I am a she-lo-oper-minded. I am not against the use of glp1s In most cases in some cases I do think they can't have the place will I need to use it? No will 95% 99% of my client see to use it No Will I use it was some clients that I know will benefit from it? Yes These clients going to benefit from it as a crutch no Right where it's applicable is Guys and girls that naturally have a much higher appetite the guys and girls that are not Vinging the guys and girls that are not having adherence issues It's simply the guys and girls that I know are suffering suffering So much more than others the guys and girls that have to dig so much deeper to get the fat loss that's required The guys and girls that simply cannot sleep all night because they are staying up with hunger all night But guess what they are still not picking up them fucking cookies and eating Yeah, so I heard you guys Any drug that is out there now you can use it. Yes I need drugs out there now can't be beneficial Well, it's only beneficial if you are using it It's a compliment The work you are already putting in yeah Yeah, I can't argue with that man. I think there are additional benefits to the newer ones I think that with some agglutide the main thing we're seeing is just that blunting of the appetite When we get into a trisappetite and then even better with reticutide There are additional health benefits that will improve fat loss that will with the Improved energy levels with the glucogon release so I do think there's the stuff to that But I am still I'm with you a hundred percent because if you are using that It's the only thing that's holding you together, you know You're never gonna be able to Successfully do what you want to do if you're relying on it no question I will say this though, too. I do think that if you were somebody who say had an issue right If you you could use it as a crutch in a larger program I'm gonna be honest man there's some people that I tell like you really need like to go to a counselor You know that like you need a counselor to to work on your relationship both food You know and in that case maybe there's something that could work in there, you know, but on its own just as a bandaid Yeah, I'm with you a hundred percent man Listen I agree a hundred percent. I mean look these things are a great for a reason right but at the same time I do think that It's The only thing I fear People just using it as just like a scapegoat right it's like oh I'm hungry I can't control myself So I'm just going to use that to completely negate the home though. It's like Well, why do you do this in first place like the the beauty? I feel like the beauty of bodybuilding Is in the part where it's fucking hard not everyone can do it Yeah, that is why that is why I love it so much it's like I Think to myself like I'm not going to be ever the best bodybuilder right on stage But I pride myself in being like one of the best bodybuilders off stage because I know I can do what 99 percent of people are not capable of doing and like I get kick off that I feel like that's the beauty of bodybuilding and that's why I fell in love with bodybuilding because it is so hard and it keeps your Our soul much and I feel like The satisfaction that you get from bodybuilding also comes from that hurt and that pain The self-channel action in you know, I think you have the challenge and then she happens that it brings and then overcoming that challenge That's the beauty of it man. So guys don't take away that beauty because I promise you That is what will make you feel good and that is what gives you the success Yeah, now What what have you found in terms of just common practice with the GLPs and what would you tell the listeners to do more so look out for when it comes to Well, of course the implementation of GLPs and considerations around the GLPs as well And would you ever speak to a client before actually implementing your GLPs and maybe have the conversation with them that look? Yes, we can implement it but This is what I would like to point of practice before you consider GLP and then we can have so what need to And then write to use the GLPs that makes sense Yeah, that that that that someone someone someone almost is like earned the right to use the GLP or Would it not work well of yourself because for me I have made it very clear to clients is like Nothing's ever off the table. I am a very open minded coach. I am always happy to listen But you need to earn the right for the GLPs come into play Yeah, yeah, I'll say this so I I One thing to keep in mind is that if somebody is using it for a crutch I've found myself experimenting with bread a true tide it's much more difficult to load on breada Is it it's harder eat a lot of food? I even when I've done Like a chill on Fridays I can't get the same volume of food in and what we're finding is Getting off of it a couple weeks out in Andrew and I and skip have talked about that on blood sweat and gear Discontinuing a couple weeks out is going to be important to be able to get a full load in a lot of cases and when that happens that hunger is all gonna come back and if you can't deal with that You're gonna mess things up because if you have a cheap meal that you weren't supposed to it 12 weeks out That's one thing but if you go hard need to large pizzas at you know two weeks out you you might affect your final look So definitely need a handle on it. I'd say everybody I'm working with that uses it just about everybody Is either in a position where they've died it with me before and then we it we never used semis But now that right as out we've said okay, well, let's try a micro dose and that's another aspect too. I think that the devil's in the dose so Right a true tide between you know it's being tested between 4 8 and 12 milligrams so if we start at say a micro dose of 500 micro grams twice a week We're still way under we may work up to like two milligrams to get some additional benefit from it But we're not like you know just crashing the appetite out you know we're seeing if we can And then other cases might be somebody who already has blood sugar issues, you know I think that you can It is kind of a cheat code for Restoring insulin sensitivity for somebody if it does have issues a guy. I'm setting up a diet on right now He I As we're talking I find out he has a really hard time getting in shape and I'm looking at his blood sugar fasted blood sugar numbers and they're Higher than they should be although they're not out of range and so always Jesus I come in together You don't see yeah, I don't I don't think he had it on his labs. We're gonna look at that though And we're gonna do some more testing but so and then as I'm digging further I ask him I was like so do you have any family history of diabetes and it turns out he says yeah A lot of my family's diabetic including my mom so I'm already thinking to myself like this is a guy who's gonna need some glucose disposal He might be a good candidate so it's an individual Individual situation, you know now We ran in back to timelines in that recording phase now six week later before the show the real face That is a time where I and again that's something from you as well that you mentioned to me When drugs come down that would be an ideal time to potentially trial something like RETA and S of you To improve your insulin sensitivity when you are going for that period of time where Anna Bollocks are coming down off the back of a longer off season 100 percent I can probably understand running some SLU and RETA together in that time frame would set someone up perfectly for a prep Because one thing that I always know is and you'll notice that yourself When you take clients run off season and let's say someone's and that's gonna be just me pulling numbers out of the house Yeah, that's gonna be someone finishing on two grams of gear right two grams total finishing the cycle and the finished eating some for like five thousand cows per day Yeah They will probably feel like they have an appetite at that point Yeah, this after first week on lower antibiotics I Nine times out of ten the feedback that I get from them after about ten days they like a Homery broke before I'm your meal and stronger sometimes too. You notice that and stronger the homeless high That would be a perfect time for a little bit of RETA And SLU to see if you can actually prime the body ready for fat loss Improved insulin sensitivity Increase of these molecules and improve mice and concentrate to a degree yeah, yeah, I think that would be great I want to something I want to something that yeah, I think you really can fast-trick it I've seen people Bring their fasted insulin levels down dramatically, you know over the course of four weeks So I mean I I really do think you could do something with that especially now with RETA and even Tris appetite versus Some of the good I think some of Glutite is really reserved for just appetite control and I've seen it as far as Combination of the both using say a Small dose of semia for the appetite control along with a dose of RETA, you know Another micro dose of RETA combining the one in the three Because you don't get as much appetite control from RETA on its own it's it's it's I'd say minimal now the other thing though You said are what are the things I'd consider you decide effects number one being Digestion are you able to still push the food through your system skip said, you know and he's an aging bodybuilder as we get older We get more distension and he was like I'm noticing I get more I'm noticing I get more distension than I used to Says it's not more Sure I'm looking back on my last prep and some days of eating and you said a struggle to load Two days out two days out Loading 8,283 calories 200 four six-year-old protein 1600 one thousand six-year-old and 74 and I'm the carbs six to seven fat and guess what tell these what I still wasn't full by the day yeah So I could put it I could have ease like more with that distension, you know if you if you're dealing with that and in constipation It's all about really trained to jack up everything you can with digestion digestive enzymes possibly HCL batin and magnesium It was a Yeah, yeah, yeah, I use this product that has both of those in it Super enzymes it's a it's a low dose of batin along with enzymes and pepsin and then It's magnesium citrate to if needed, you know She must put digestive pharma pro from Trambojia per year actually has full digestive enzymes panel and Betaine HCL as well. It's it's actually it's actually real really good Scott like what's the code on that? Who about that you know the troll make you know the 10 all right? I like that shirt You know what you know what it's legit. I'm gonna have to send you on the try. It's I'd love to try it It's actually it's actually it's actually it's saying how good it is When it comes to digestion How do you know that? That's a good one because I said question of someone asking me if they should be taken digestive enzymes if the digestion is completely fine And I'm not sure we ought to take his on it, but We are not designed to be digestive through a bunch of protein per day Right So with that in mind I think anyone that isn't using digestive enzymes I think they're stupid not to I mean if you're eating two meals a day, yeah, you probably don't need them. I guess yeah if you're eating four five six meals per day awkward of three and a half or thousand calories awkward of three and a hundred grams of protein per day Carbs and fats and tap your stomach and stomach acid is not actually designed to be eaten that much food so in my opinion You should more than like the be using some sort of digestive aid on a daily basis If you're food is high I think Prevention is bad in the cure, right? Yeah, hey how many times do you use a digestive enzyme a day and I ask because I find sometimes there are people that do get it. They're just just excuse me. I chest of enzyme And then they tell me oh, yeah, I take that and I said well, won't you take it? They say I take it with my multi in the morning So they take it one time in the first thing in the you know, they're not using it with food Yeah, I'll take it just before I eat How many times every every meal? Four four times per day, they're just events. I'm okay. So I take my GDAs with meal one two three Five I don't take them across work at meal and I don't take them in your five Then I take magnesium on me here's with everything on meal. Yep I take that's all of 14 of 1500 grams of elemental magnesium Which has a hefty dose, but guess what my sleep's incredible. I feel I feel amazing on it manages super high That just is amazing So I generally take digestive enzymes better meal and I take amigas with them. You'll and I do take magnesium with our meals without a single meal as well Okay, okay cool figured I just get that out there It's a good point actually. I think a lot of people a lot of people that can take your food It's like well, you actually supposed to take it with food all the fall food. Yeah Hey, do you want to knock through some listener questions real quick while uh small over here? Or did you have any people who are covered? I said mom, I think uh I think with with covered all the points that were had on the agenda for today All right because we did get a bunch of them from the last one and as I mentioned before you guys you're welcome to comment with blessings in and let us know What do you think about the program? You know what what would you like to hear us talk about next? Here is one of the questions. It says Cuba mentions in the podcast Ensuring that you get a sensitive E2 test Where is he getting this done in the UK? I have checked with Dave about a year or two ago and Eval isn't sensitive E2 It's just standard Yeah, you can get it. It's just custom of extra custom. I'm gonna take a lot time. Okay, okay So you can get it done. It's just it will just cost you a little bit more But look it's not an necessity but if you are taking tremble and or or decker It will show up in your estrogen in an a standard in a standard estrogen test So I see so many people panic thinking of God crazy higher strudin. It's like No, you haven't you're either taking MPP or you take a tremble and that's showing up with estrogen and In reality what happens then it's guys That's not having natural health and stuff and just oh yeah, really like close to estrogen like a Have no energy and flat but joints are so unlike well no one to make because the estrogen was already probably What's in so you've just completely crushed any bit of it you had Yeah Here is a good one and I'm curious to hear what you have to say about this in fact I think this could be a topic for a future podcast or like a complete topic for the whole show He says yeah, this is in reference to the last episode where we talked about Doing everything you can to maintain gains between cycle and Getting yourself into the best position you can be he said yeah, though it's okay If you've got a spare 800 quid or more to spend on drugs every month during a cost-eleving crisis But who the fuck actually has the money to compete in bodybuilding? What a dick What a dick sorry Scott, well that's like no, are you? I'm not sure you know what you know what that is a comment for someone extremely bitter like extremely bitter Guess what made people spend so much more on video games never mind Not too loading if you don't have an extra 800 pound of money to spend on your hobbies Guess what make you need to work fucking harder you need to get get second job Like what mate when when when I was 18 years old when I was 18 years old Because my more than dad had no money. I had to work three jobs to be able to sustain myself Yeah, and work towards my goals so genuine people come out with bullshit out that it's like Mate, I have seen people come from fucking nothing to have him In men's wealth. I saw my more in dad work for five pound an hour 12 13 hour shifts to get somewhere Guess what mate if you want something bad enough you'll make it happen. I want it to bodybuild I came for a poor background My more dad didn't have money to fund me. Guess what I had to do? I had to get another fucking job to fund myself How I'm a general all this life again, and I know it let's just go back to be sensible now Yeah Why does it have to do with a drugs like why can you not maintain your gains without a bowl load of drugs? Well, that's that's I'm maybe what he's getting it because the podcast we put out We're talking about these are the things you can these are the things you can do supplement wise and then we got into like the SLU growth and stuff like that So yeah, shall we? I should do an episode or what can do that's not drugs to sustain the gains I think even man not only that, but like how can we do bodybuilding on the cheap because at the end of the day All of us need to think about you know affordability, you know, it's like we don't None of us should be you know spending everything we have we have responsibilities we got family people out there have families and kids So they know they're doing what they can you know So I'm thinking maybe it we can take the negative comment and spin it into something that would be really helpful to people I didn't know that a budget yeah, I love it man. Let's freaking do that I love it I got it right here man, I fact I had a burden on my phone already Make what I'm making out Scott yeah, we'll do that bodybuilding a budget and you know what I How to I had to bodybuilding a budget and I will I can go into depth on how I bodybuild it for like 40 pound a week Yeah, yeah, I got laid off during my first prep Cuba I was making not a lot Put it this way too like even when I got the job working for the pop company man They they screwed us like I did not make good money until I started coaching You know I quit my world in photography and came home and took a job and just was like looking for direction But man I I remember I remember making I think it was like God, I'm gonna say $800 every two weeks No, and that's like including I had to pay rent I had a car to deal with you know I had to pay for gas and yeah, I mean there's a lot man $400 a week and that's like before taxes So like and then when I got laid off in my first prep I was pretty much doing that on my own man like I couldn't afford supplements, you know I had a very minimal gear My food was like oh and you know we can get into it. You know on that episode, but like I was shopping around It wasn't the same meat every time you know you had to use what you could find find the deals, right? Absolutely, but you could do it if you want to make it happen you can do it, right? You can definitely do it mate. You can definitely do it. I mean this and I did it And I can go into depth on I didn't you will Scott as well and I think people find a lot of value in it Just the only thing I'll practice this with is it's not gonna be the most enjoyable way to do things But it did the job. Yeah, yeah, okay. It did the job this one is kind of got a few points to it He says what's your pure brand of BCA? So my follow-up question that he didn't ask is Cuba do you use BCA is I Do not I just use yeah, I use or even that I use mps max which has kkc Hydrology which is a three digested It's a petal problem. You know you know what I is Yeah, it's it's probably the best quality Probably you can take him especially Around the workout window if you want something that I just super quick the only problem is it does come into higher price stack So if I was to have like a tier it would always be App to pro slash and ps max casino draw say yep, and then it would be EA's BCA's I wouldn't really use them scum not an I would you I've always said that you have EA or BCA is in your EA but your BCA is are gonna give you all the building blocks, you know That was John. Yeah, yeah Yeah, you want your essential amino is not not just the brand-changing I was because just doesn't really make sense to how the product but isn't really a complete When you can have something that is complete. So there's JP having EA I assume he does Yeah, he does yeah, yeah, it's got some it's got a few different versions as well as got EA with hydration as well Okay, so yeah, he's all this that's all true nutrition does to they have EA plus and then they have the raw Just EA powder which taste like garbage, but if you want to do it cheap, it's it's definitely a way to go when it's only like 25 bucks for a pound Like you're gonna be drinking shakes that tastes like crap, you know, but they're gonna Okay, got maybe a couple more here What do you recommend to help with water retention when pushing carbs already taking Tell me certain and hydro chlorothyside which helps stress. I know a guy Stop taking it with dioretics you're around or like can you tell your genetics to manage this is right first Right, that's just new right yeah if you need to take your ethics to manage your water attention You need to assess the various stack design you're taking too much drugs or you are simply too far You need to diet. It's not water. It's fat. It's coming to show both I can tell you now I can take up to a thousand million artists and 12 or 13 I use a growth and I will not hold much water Because I'm not fat the muscle Exactly, the more body fat you carry the water you will store If you are already taking time to start and I very much doubt you are taking crazy crazy cycles That are going to lead to you holding that much water so essentially my friend You need to diet before you put yourself in serious serious health risk taking that side just Year round dude Come on please stop that if you want please message me personally or message Scott direct And it can give you like further Guidelines to do so you do not you know record yourself please do Yeah, yeah, I do know a guy who I met him at the gym He was one of those people sometimes you see guys at the gym that just had the craziest body parts He had the biggest traps I'd ever seen in my life like average body builder in general But it is traps were enormous he wasn't he wasn't like Jimmy and I'm up or anything either But so we're talking and he says yeah, I usually do just you know the offseason like two Sustan on a week and then in the summer I like to run trend he's like and then all summer I use diuretic to help stay drier, you know and Like man you got it we got to change that and literally like within a month He goes to police academy Does the physical and his kidney numbers were off like way off? So we see a specialist and finds out he's on failure and has to go on dialysis And he had to do with running diuretics long term dehydrating himself, you know I needlessly All you could have done you could have just stayed Lena. That's it. Yeah, yeah All right one more here pro tip for cruising at 750 test It's a good question Do not cruise at 750 test that is not cruise my friend that is a cycle That is what I would put the start my cycle not cruise What is an average pro cruise look like it let's talk big guy Big guys right I would post a bit between 400 up to 600 milligrams ish Yeah, give a take on give a take on the milligrams I I have seen some guys cruising in 750 But I'm very rarely see it just being test however yeah, sorry I have seen more commonly guys do like 700 tests just as a cruise after a show or Personally I just want to go that high I go a little bit lower Yeah, and we're talking big guys right so we're talking we're talking guys that like compete and I like 240 250 260 yeah, so that guy is so that Most of us yeah, so the guys that I I can you know example like I've got a guy that that'll compete 260 stage I've got another one that will compete like 240 found on stage Yeah, he'll inside out So that means right Tonight so eight tonight you have season here and they generally cruise One of them cruises around 400 milligrams of one cruise and around 500 or 550 Yeah, and that is a I make sure a lot of it's a stash drone and a tiny bit of master Oh, pretty much yeah I wouldn't ever just I wouldn't recommend just cruising in 750 test because unless you are Post shell when you are extremely lean but if you are cruising after an off season push it plays and you body fat is somewhat higher then unfortunately The amount of normalization you have is just going to be very hard to control in 750 test or less you are a very low aroma tizer which fine you can do it But even then it's like the whole point of cruising is to bring that low down and to a degree give you body a bit of a break So essentially what I would prefer to do Scott personally is Probably the lower that's a stash drone a little bit make sure you take it daily if you like test just on test But maybe do 400 five-minute five hundred meters of test alone and instead just one quick you grow for the stage and that will give you the fullness and the recovery That is probably needed to sustain you All right, oh we did have a We have more growth hormone year round because we were talking about that last episode about using it to basically bridge between cycles Keep fullness keep strength, keep your your progress So what do you think about that? Do you meant is that something you would go up and down with or something you take breaks with? I don't take breaks will go from it. Yeah, I'll be honest. I don't I don't see the My growth hormone dose changes and I do Logric in cases Especially if growth hormone uses quite high Yeah, I personally do not see the need to come out of growth hormone. The only time people need to come off growth hormone really Is down to finances if someone is financially stable and they have high goals Why would you come off growth hormone when it's relatively relative to the scientific free? I mean the only times where you are putting yourself up more risk of growth hormone is if you are using very very high doses on a long period of time But essentially if you are using let's say for I use I mean It's relative to safe. I don't see the need to be coming off growth in my personal opinion I'm not sure what you're standing so I mean, but I personally prefer to leverage growth Over antibiotics because I just have seen much better results to it agree With much less detriment on a hot health lipid health. I'm just general health Even to health to be honest. So I could see I was not saying I could see all that I would say the only my only position would be to consider is What's your blood sugar doing? Some people I find are going to be more sensitive to that and and start running high blood sugar numbers Uncontrollably and then we have to manage that with insulin and then there's periods where it's like oh, we just don't want to have insulin in the plant You know see I don't really have issues with that anymore because I don't really lack people get to far out of shape Okay for a Florida tech. Have you problematic and if it is a problem and Mostly it's likely not growth hormone. It's just that they just need to diet and then okay for weeks in free for weeks in and It's all backing check so I would never if someone's already insulin is this thing I would never try to use insulin to try and combat resistance because then you are just making an Insolusive worse you're not fixing it because you're already too far gone You are at that point now where in services gone and you are trying to I and I personally don't actually like to use The faster blusher was adds much as a guideline for that because I have some guys that are always training high Test of load work and the HBC was is low HBC is low So that is a true gauge really for where you are with with the instance sensitivity because as someone is what factors that can actually influence your faster bluther Yeah, because I go but I don't really pay that much attention to it anymore I prefer to actually focus on the work but I still do use it Yeah, however My stance on on that in general is I wouldn't use insulin in that case. I would just Put someone out there Implement some cardio if they need it. You're someone's very sad and treat Probably even take a deal out at some times instance. This is kind of driven from just high inflammation and fatigue Yes, so I would follow review all these things possibly out further review the lifestyle and see what's driving it This is because nine times out of ten but I Have seen It's more so people think it's causation of correlation people think it's wrong for much rather than it or it's either the lifestyle They are eating too much getting too far or Sometimes even not training hard enough or just being simply under a COVID as well. Okay Yeah, I haven't seen like for I you do it as much, but when it gets higher I've seen situations where We've just taken a break because that's been the case, but it's not for everybody You know, I mean it is not something I've seen across the board Especially when guys get older is where I start to see that That was all we had man. We had a bunch of good stuff here today If you enjoyed the podcast and you enjoyed Cuba's drumming is Let us know if you're going to do it but I do apologize, but I'm just having my night time drink now. Are you just having my yeah? I'm just having a melatonin. Okay 60 milligrams let's go. Oh, you hit that melatonin hard, huh? Yeah, I do like the melatonin board. You know what I have since Dante made up post I've traveled I've traveled it myself And maybe it's actually actually works and guess what what Dante says It generally does work guys. He's not a It's not a beginner in this stuff. I'll be honest. So I have been doing 60 milligrams just as a Standard dose and I don't feel groggy Okay, literally jump out of bed or key is not having it right before bed I don't feel like I don't feel that melatonin actually looks best when you have it Right before bed. I take it around 90 minutes before sleep. So okay I'm actually actually I'm going to sleep in about an hour Okay, so I am a little bit a little bit a little bit later unusual But I'll probably asleep in that 90 minutes. So I do sleep the time in his It's still pretty decent and then I've got my Dream sleep from Tray by JP, all right, which is Magnetism I'll trip to find five HCP and some of the cooling greens I should look at them as well I like that and then I've got a joint formula in there as well That will do me nicely for the evening. Nice when you head back up to see Dave next I'm actually seeing Dave this weekend. He's It's coming over to my show with go okay classic K-class it this weekend. It's our annual show that we host oh no kidding man I'm sure it's gonna go fantastic. I hope the the turn out great you guys have just such a great freaking community out there in the UK I love everything about UK bodybuilding It's amazing we've got all my family comparison so it's gonna be a crazy day all right We've got a assist in the morning. Yeah, it's a huge show It's it's rummed we've got assisted guys in the morning and then not trolls in the evening so I think it's Matt can we compare as we've got this weekend What 5 hundred and the best as we can Wow That's a big show man that's a big show figure guys if you're not familiar with competing like 200 is a pretty decent size show Yeah, so it's gonna be it's kind of a split into two Basically two halves of the day first half if's there is that Nontested and the second half is the test that I think Dave's actually gonna be at the show testing with his lovely wife Okay, and I want to see where at the end where you take the tested guy in the nontested guy You they go head to head What do you do that for Matt? Matt characters actually the best pose in the heat is way in now that Let me just calculate it so you understand I appreciate that yeah Translated into the American yeah, in America so it's one of the seven pounds with his glutes Great straight So yeah, it's guess poses weekend yeah, it's big it's big so hell yeah And I guess what he's doing all of the shows that I'm competing as well so that's gonna be fun That'll be cool man. How far older you know? Do you say eat it? Nine weeks out this weekend nine weeks out this weekend all right, man. It sounds like everything's going great So it's great to hear that you're in it like you're in great spirits right now and just keep riding that as long as you can, man, you know I love it, it's uh when it gets tougher a little bit even more it's out today It was a little bit of a more of a crappy day and I was like Hooking love the shit that this is how it's meant to feel so I'm grateful that days like this because generally you want to do for that this gives me more of a kick-up there are still working harder so I actually had a A really really good night day so it's like a A lot of people's perception changes in prep like I almost look at like a Asceltia's it sounds but every time in the gym now It's almost like a Like a battle me and me with being able to maintain the lifts Stay as strong as possible and not give in to a week mindset of telling myself that I'm going to get week up because nine times out of ten Is the mindset that that that forces you to just Forces you to just take the thought of the gas yeah, I'm just I'm not I'm not alone I fucking happen mate every morning I'm on I'm doing the steps and I'm telling myself like I'm doing this like I'm going to fucking win And I know Look I'm not going to but that's not going to change my mindset and my approach to the prep You're going to bring the best Cuba Exactly and that's always for me so will you not know guys? I love it and guys Cuba He did have it a long day you literally did everything you needed to do today and you still made time to get together with us I know that you're ready to go like I know you're ready to hit it for the night So I am grateful that you could make the time to hang with us man Appreciate you guys and listen I love doing this show. I That's one here if I didn't love doing it if I didn't love doing it I Would not be sat here at the end of the day after a very very busy It's yes Yes, but I still do this and Scott, thank you so much I'm guys if you haven't subscribed make sure you do so we will be bringing you more Content very very soon. I appreciate you all thank you for listening and make sure that you Support Scott, he's doing a fantastic job and Thanks, I'm actually going to watch Your show of dusty and rum about who's the best part of the 2021 Believe it or not I still watch all of the shows apart from our show. I know watch our show because I think that would be pretty fucking weird But I do watch every single other show that you have on the channel So we'll think you may we appreciate you know you appreciate you know having you as part of the team and Have new as a follower of the shows too and real quick then who who's your pick for the Olympic Because that's what we talk about at this time 15 weeks out Party Okay, well see what happens guys. We appreciate anybody tuning in and as Cooper said like share subscribe comment all that stuff and Thanks man appreciate you guys guys like just before we go yeah To shout out to Scott Stevenson because I do have a couple of copies of his books here Some are oh yeah, you have showers. Scott Stevenson. I love the episode that you did with him on muscle lines with the astace There's a lot of guys that are doing a lot of stereotypical at this more in time Yeah, and I love it when Scott comes on because he just And the beauty of Scott is he's such an eyes person and he would never have a bad mouth anyway Because he just completely destroys everything a lot of guys say I'm just like Scott Scott you have just completely destroyed all these people's content that they put it out I didn't even realize it myself man. I don't watch without content really yeah without even realizing So I'm just like Scott Keep going your demand That's that that's what happens when you get a real real PhD on On the channel is crazy and I love it amazing all right guys. We'll see you soon. Thanks, Cooper Thank you guys

What's up guys? We'll come back to Blood Sweat and Gear with Coaches Skip Hill and your Barry myself, Scott McNally and all of our programming. It's brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support and thank you to everybody at home who is liking the shows and commenting and leave a question because you guys really do make this thing what it is. We're also brought to you by Trunutrition.com. Use our code, think over there for additional savings and remember shopping with them using our code. It's voting for us and it's getting you some high quality supplements too. It's a win, win, win and we're brought to you by SupplementSource.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change from week to week short dated, close up product, stuff like that. Definitely check them out if you're in Canada. We've got a bunch of stuff. We've got the hardcore set of the week which you guys are the insane set of the week which you guys have been enjoying. We've got a bunch of entries for that. We're going to start out though with a opposing critique right injured. Yeah, and I'm sorry I can't remember his name. I put up my text message. Hold on. All right. And I'm going to just get the pictures rolling here. This is Jordan Gilmore and he posted it in our Facebook group and I think he looks great. He's doing a link if I'm not correctly as first show. I think he was natural until recently if I remember correctly from the post. But anyway, he put up like three or four shots. I'd love to see if he's listening front double bicep in the muscular, a rear double. Like your staple poses that we need to see. He looks like you can do either bodybuilding or classic. But I'll just start left to write on my screen. The side chest is a beautiful shot, great detail, good balance. I think if he just rotates a little bit more at the waist so we see a little bit more back shoulder. It's going to add a little bit more symmetry in depth to that shot. Because whether it's a front on shot or a side shot, it's all about wide to narrow. Meaning wide in the shoulders, narrow the waist. It's just that wacky look that we're going for. And I think if he just rotates a little bit more and maybe he needs to just push that right shoulder a little bit more and it'll make that backpick which already looks great. Kind of pumped up even more. I think that will complete the shot. How about you skip? What do you think? Yeah, I completely agree. Bring that half melon from the back around a little bit more. Yep. Moving on to a side try set. The only real thing I saw here was I think if he moves his left hand forward more onto his glue and closes that gap between his waist and the glue, it's going to look more like a wall of muscle. And then it's just going to add more to the symmetry. Again, great physique. You know, I got great dimensions. Muscles are developed nice, conditionally and excellent and he's still I think got four more weeks to go. But yeah, what do you think skip on that side try? Side try. I think it's always important and it's it's I don't say it's hard to tell. But you just want to smash lean towards smashing that arm against your side versus actually posing it. It'll make that doubt pop a little bit more. So he could arguably, he turns on flexibility too. But you got to be able to smash that arm. It's kind of like the front leg out from the side. You want to smash that hamstring to drop it versus it building, you know, being contracted. So yeah, there's a great drop. Contract the glue contract the calf, let the hamstring. Yep, that's great. All right, so the real, real last spread, Scott, can you center that a little bit more on that one? Because I put some notes on there. Yeah, there you're right there. Okay, so this shot, you know, whenever I teach this one, I always look at the feet first and look at this one. I like to see the heel of one foot and the toes of the other foot on the same line of plane, at least as a starting point. And I think it brings his left foot forward about was that four inches or so, three inches. And then puts it out like an inch or two and puts a little bit more weight over his left hip. It's going to bounce out his lower body. So it looks a little more symmetrical. And then looking at the upper body, I kind of go through these steps. Like hit your normal spread, after you got your feet set, hit your normal spread, do a slight crunch in the abs. And that's going to lower, round out the lower back a little bit to make the back straps, kind of hang a little more. And then very slightly drive your shoulders up and out. And keep in mind, this isn't a shrug, because a lot of times people misinterpret this and they kind of shrug up, which actually brings their shoulders in. And it makes their traps kind of flex, right? It's really just a subtle, I almost think of like when you're spreading seran wrap around something that is like a chicken breast or something like that. You just kind of spread it out a little bit more. And then lean back and finally just look up and arch the chest a little bit. And I think he's going to get himself like another two or three inches out of the width in the shot and really make the shot come to life even more. His condition is obviously excellent. Like glutes, trations already in, hamstrings are almost fully in. Lower back looks nice and detailed. And again, you know, maybe not again, but initially I should say the rear last spread is not necessarily a detail shot. It's a width shot. To make people try to contract and get every little detail muscle back there. And it makes them, it takes away from the overall look in the width that you could bring to that shot. You guys have something to add with that? Yeah, I think the only thing I would add is that there's one exception, I think, to that. And that is the glute and ham. Because there's not as much detail, the eyes of the judges, if you're looking for detail there, are going to go to that ham and the glute, you're not going to mis-the glute. So then I have to wonder, and this is just a cue that I use with my clients and myself is that back foot should be, and this is going to be hard to explain, but the pull should be that if his back foot or the slip that left heel would come up and kick his right glute, he should be pulling across the back of his body to help contract. And I'm not saying that he's not on saying is I can't see it because it's a picture, I'm not sure, that that cue is to pull the glute in the hamstring in to where if that back foot slip, that left heel would come up and kick his own hands in the right glute. I see. I got you. Okay. Yeah. I can see that. Yeah, I think if you're on that stance, you mentioned, you know, bring that foot in. It's a little bit too far out. I think that's a mistake sometimes that less experienced guys make where like if high green were to take a giant step back and be real dramatic or you know, any really big dude, it works for them, but when you don't have quite as much size, I think it ends up the further that your limbs get away from you than the smaller the more stretched out they appear. You know what I mean? Well, and you know, the guys in the 80s and 90s used to really take a deep step back. They sure did. Yeah. I remember earlier this week I was scrolling in Scram and there was a video of Milo Sarchev hitting a real last bread. Okay. And it was like, dude, he was almost like he was like trying to like, I don't know, but like four feet in between his back heel and his front heel and his toes, right? It was a really exaggerated step back. And I think, you know, with the development of posing coaches and really all of us really trying to focus on how to present your physique the best because so many good body builders out there with great genetics and great physique now, every little detail matters about how you present yourself. So, you know, if you're losing, you can pose your legs or your upper body to make it so you look five pounds bigger or you can pose them to make yourself look ten pounds lighter. And yeah. And I think that's what you're trying to, East Scott is that when you take that step back, you can make your legs look a lot stronger than they really are. Absolutely. Absolutely. Well, I think that big step back originated because if you go 10 years prior to that, and you go to the mid 80s, they weren't kicking that leg back much at all to the point where the glutes most times weren't even contracted. So I think that someone at some point realized, oh, man, if I get this foot back, so they went back essentially too far, that's good men started pulling it back in to find a happy medium after. You know, this brings up, this is a side topic. But the back in the, you know, the guys, the older guys today that were good pros in like the 90s or late 80s are always talking about, all these guys aren't bringing the conditioning today. And I got to say, like, look at a video. I'm like, I didn't see a lot of striated glutes on the guys until Ronnie really started bringing striated glutes as a consistent thing. You guys are not talking about? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. And maybe they weren't flexing them because obviously flexing wasn't as big of a thing of the glutes as kind of the suits were a little bit bigger than covered more of the glutes, usually. But it wasn't like a standard that you had to have these fish gills and your glutes when you turned around from the back like it is today. Yeah. Rich Kasparay was really, I think the first and then, but not everybody was doing it just because Rich was doing it doesn't mean everybody else was. All right. Let's say a lot this last, this last post he's got here. What do you guys think of this one? I think he's just putting that front foot, foot, weight too far forward. I mean, is this even, is this an ab and thigh? Are you, no, this would be, this would be your side tricep like your secondary. This side tricep and I do want to point out the guys, the judges have said they want to see the traditional side tricep. I see you can, absolutely. You can move into this one if you want to. You see a lot of classic guys will do this as more of a classic shot. This guy's got a physique where he could do either bodybuilding or classic for sure. For sure. But, you know, don't make this your standard tricep shot. I would say your other tricep shot is better if you followed the cues that we've already given you and I would bring that left foot back towards the other foot like a good four five inches and see how that looks. Typically, this pose is essentially the second pose after the original side tricep. But he's kicking that leg I grease kicking the leg out too far what it's doing is it's ending out required way too much. If he were to keep it more under him, that vibe would look a lot thicker. Yep. Great physique. Center for Front Double, a rear double and a most muscular love to see those. Hey guys, so I'm seeing that like 35% of you are not subscribed to the channel, which on one hand is great. That means that YouTube is getting us in front of new people. On the other hand, that means that we might not see each other again if you don't hit the subscribe button. We have Sarbo Body Building Podcast each week. We've got a reaction videos. We're doing YouTube shorts. So let me encourage you right now to subscribe and hit the bell. And if you're enjoying this show, then please hit the like button and leave us a comment. So it is official after eating that super spicy food. My face is even rather than usual now. There's that. Take it away from Andrew's Black eye today. Alright, this is going to be a fun one for us. When's a good time to tell a girl that you're seeing that you take gear and that it's illegal. It'll be a good one. Yeah. I'd like your answer in Facebook. What was that again? What did he say? Wow. You're wrecking it. Oh, yeah. I did see that. That's right. You're like, this pump is for us. You're by trend. Yeah. I'm my advice. I don't know. First, I'm not. I would never tell anybody. Client or otherwise. To lie. But I might not give up the information too soon. And the part about it being illegal, there is no reason to bring that up unless you're asked. You know, in some of the comments on the topic were, were right out, you know, you don't want to give ammunition to someone you don't trust. Just like guys can be train wrecks. Women can be train wrecks. You don't want to hand them essentially load the magazine for them so that they have more ammo if things go south. It's just, it's, it's, it's, honestly, it's a tough one. But I will say this. I'm fortunate because I've been married for 33 years. And my wife is always supportive of anything that has ever come up in body building and she trusts my judgment. Not everybody is like that, not every relationship is like that. And I understand that. Now I don't know that tomorrow. Well, maybe not tomorrow because we don't have kids in the house anymore. We've gone back 10 years. It's great as my marriage has always been. If for some reason, we ran into divorce proceedings that she would not use that. And I don't know that she would use it in court or not to get the kids. There's just so many things that you're handing over. But if you're going to be in a relationship long term or you're going to be invested and you're going to be together, there has to, there has to be that support and understanding because, you know, I've had clients, I think we all do that. They keep their gear at their friend's house and everything. And I've always said this and I do believe this. If you're in a serious relationship, especially if you're married and you're keeping something like that, that is just, it's just a lie. It's a trust issue. And I just, I would never advocate to anyone that that's a good idea to keep something like that from your spouse. So it's a tough one. It's going to be different for everybody. I don't know that there's, in fact, I don't, I think there's not a black and white answer as to when you can give up that information. I wouldn't be giving up too soon. Yeah. I think we're in this culture where like people are like, well, you need to be open and honest and you know, that's not right. So if you should be open and accepting and, you know, but I'm with you, I've always said that you just want to be careful and guarded and be careful with who has that information and next though, I think had the best response in the Facebook group he said, just get big enough so it's not even a question. She just freaking knows. That's what, now you can always feel them out. You can always see, see, let's say you're out at dinner or something. You just find a guy who's kind of big and you go, you know, I wonder if that guy uses gear. Oh, oh, what's gear? Well, I just, you know, like steroids. I wonder if he, and then that kind of opens it up and maybe she'll be like, oh, yeah, that's losers. You can steroids or cheaters and then you're like, oh, shit, I got to get a new woman. I don't know what's going to work out or maybe it's how that big a deal. I don't know what's, you know, what's gear. I don't know much about it. Tell me about it. Then, you know, then you kind of have an opening there to kind of just feel them out. I would probably go that route to get an idea how they feel about it first. Yeah. I don't know. I'm, I'm trying to remember for me. I think if you present, if you present yourself as an intelligent, well thought, you know, serious person, and you say this is part of my lifestyle. This is what I do. You know, I'm not just an idiot throwing anything into my body. Like, I know what I'm doing. I think that goes a long way, you know, and let's just some of the wants control over you, which run for the hills. Yeah. I mean, you're just running for the hills. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, because it's not like you're like, so I've got this hair when habit and I've got it under control, you know, only go to I only do fentanyl a few times a week. You know what I'm saying? Like we're not talking about things that are completely alter your behavior. Like no one is robbing a bank and throwing their life on the line to go get a bottle of testosterone. But there's ironists. Some people don't know that. And maybe those are the worst stories. So that's, that's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. Okay. So that's what I'm getting at is, but, you know, change in the image. I don't think we need to change the image today. It's 2025, but in 2000, because I think we all remember back then that this was more of a topic, I guess, on our minds when we were meeting people, meeting girls, right? Was, or maybe not used to it. Maybe fast forward, or, you know, rewind 10 more years before that when you're meeting your wife. I'd be in serious here that you had to, you're like, no, like, I'm a, I'm a competent, well, intelligent, well thought out person. And, and I need to change their persona of what a typical steroid user looks like. They're not some low-life criminal who goes around beating people up and beating women. And, and having quote unquote, void rage and all that kind of stuff, like, no, like, I go to work. I pay my taxes. I, you know, I do this. I do that. And if you're already that person, and you've demonstrated that to him. Yeah, we're, if you're already flying off the handle. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. That's what I'm saying. Because I know a buddy of mine who got married right after high school and he had to hide it. And this guy would leave it in his sneakers all the way inside of his gym bag, inside of his car every day. And what have to like, you know, somehow smuggle, he's always asked me for syringes. And I'd have to get bring him a few syringes so he could go into the gym at the private bathroom at the gym to go inject himself twice a week. And it was like a big thing to do. And then, oh, here's the syringes. Can you get rid of these formates? Like, what? Sure. You know what I mean? Like, so, so yeah, I, I think picking the right person is probably key here. One other thing is though, it's 20, 25, all girls are just in steroids now. It's like, yeah, everybody's in it. They're all taken as charity isn't it. She's on fire. I mean, now, and technically. Exactly. So she's like, yeah, I know pussy. Like, you want to inject me later? Yeah, it depends. Like, if you get involved with somebody from the gym and they're fit just, you know, they're in the community. You are in the community. Then there's a good chance they already have it figured out. Currently, taking an average of just over six I.U. Every day, growth hormone. And my IGF levels checked, got them checked. And I'm just at 80. I don't think it's fake because the place is really highly reviewed. I'm wondering if it's just because my all-sertive, all, excuse me, all-sertive kaleidos. I just ordered a certain GH test to see what it is. Anyone experience this in have any input. So yeah, he's on an 80 scale of 52 to 328. What do you say, Andrew? I think we didn't we talk about when your clients who was super, super high in an off season. Yeah, but that was from the GH and he was like 827 to where I went called Scott Stevens. And I was like, hey, you ever seen an IGF this high off? Like 10 units of growth. And then because we both were thinking the same thing of, well, does he have a tumor? Yeah, see if cancer. So obviously the move was the pull the GH, and then a month later go get his IGF test. And it tested right back at 271. So we knew immediately, it's the GH. He's a great responder in terms of IGF one. He was also well fed. But when I'm telling you that's funny. I thought that he was dieting later in the year and it was lower. I must have made it lower. You're right. You're right. Sorry. That's it again, like five months later when he was in a prep. It was like more like a 400, which is still a nice number, but it was an 820. So it was. Yeah. But the dieting because you brought up dieting, I would ask this guy, are you dieting really, really strictly because that will have an effect on your IGF one release. And in terms of the, you see, you know, any, like something like also of colitis, you can disrupt your, you can increase your pro and inflammatory cytokines, like interlookin, I think it's six or seven, if I'm not mistaken. And that can suppress IGF production in the liver. So, you know, he could be taking the GH, but the GH just isn't having response in his liver. I doubt that he's like severely malnourished, aside from maybe, you know, calories and dieting. I would also maybe wonder, does he, like, has he gotten his labs done, does he have liver disease? Because that can affect it. And as he taken any other medications, there's beyond antabolic PDs, you know, because those can have an effect as well. Trying to think if I'm forgetting anything. I think that's about it. You got anything skipped? Yeah, just begs the question whether systemic IGF, there's a lot we don't know. So, I think a lot of times we're making assumptions that, oh, you have to have high systemic levels of IGF. And if you do, then you're in this, you know, great situation for growth. When in reality, it comes down to those IGF levels in specific places, skeletal muscle, that sort. So, I don't know that we know enough to be able to make, and I say we just, in general, the, just, not just the industry, but just the science. I don't know that we know enough to be able to say that, oh, his IGF levels aren't high, so he's not benefiting from it. That's just, that's my take. I think there's more to it than that. Because I've had a couple of friends who have had problems with that, that they don't seem to respond from an IGF level, but they tend, they respond, if you took the IGF level out of it, they're convinced that they're responding. And I'm convinced from what I see that they're responding, and the symptoms that come along with using growth hormone, they're all there. Yeah, so I've been that way. Like I've never gotten crazy high readings, but even even at like, you know, six, seven units, but I definitely felt the growth have gotten everything I would have expected to from it, and this is, you know, various brands, but my readings have never been like, as impressive as I would have liked to see them. You know what I mean? Because you want to see that real high number when you're spending money on it. Sure, sure. Or when you're using servicetem or farm gray, yeah, yeah. And then the argument in the industry as well, it didn't change my IGF levels. I'm looking at it going, okay, and we're not smart enough to go maybe there's more to it than just this very blanket black and white. Oh, it has to do it only with the blood levels of IGF. No, there has to be so much more, and that's where I come back to the science and say, yes, we know a lot, but we know this much. So, you know, you say that about anything left in Grayland, all those things. We're learning more and more, but we don't understand the intricate and complex interaction of those hormones, let alone IGF or anything else. It's the tip of the iceberg right now. Andrew pulled some pictures for a shout out here for Brandon Weiss. These are some really nice shots, man. Yeah, there we go. Great condition, man. We have Brandon Weiss, by the way, that listen to the show. There's two of them. I thought so. Yeah, yeah, yeah. This is the, sorry, other Brandon. This is the Jack to Brandon Weiss. Sorry, other Brandon. Looks incredible, man. You said he's coached by Chris Tuddley. Yeah, coached by Tuddley. He won the Vancouver NPC show from last weekend, and obviously rightfully so, and actually the pictures cut off, looks like the guy that he'd be, I think in his class was also a pretty good body building. He's definitely better, but like he didn't have like an easy walkthrough. It looked like the guy that he'd be, at least on one of the sides of him, was a very complete bodybuilder as well. So, that's always nice when no one wants to win a show when there's like nobody in the show. Sure. You know, like that's, that's just not fun. So, it looks like he had some decent competition in excellent condition, but this is, honestly, this is part for the course of Chris, like he brings people in like this all the time. Yeah. And I mean, in fairness, it has to be some type of consolation too for the guy who took second, because he's really good. You go, yeah, I'm like, I thought that show was mine. Like, I couldn't have been any better, and then to go, well, at least I got, I like I got beat by someone who's legit, like that is conditioning. I'd rather lose and take a second to that than, you know, than any other way. I mean, I, I, I want a lot of super heavyweight classes, but then when you overall, to like a really good, like heavyweight usually, you know, I can remember, like 2017, 2018, and lost to other guys, they're going to nationals and end up getting their pro card, you know, that year, and people like, oh, how did you had him? You're bigger than him, and it's like, look guys, like, I could be very, very realistic and very objective and be like, no, I see he's just a little bit more complete. He's a little bit more rounder on taller and length, you're like, we both had great condition. And I think that's, that's part of being a good bodybuilder, I think, is being able to say like, yeah, like, I love my look, but that guy look better, like, I would have really formed to, you know, and not very many people are that honest, and really they're not in it and it's too bad, because I think that that's a very, very, you know, humility goes a long way. You know, in this, I get along with my clients that have that same attitude, like, I see it, like, I'm seeing the pictures you are, you know, when it's, it's always great when you have a client where you know after pre-judging, you could be completely honest with them, you're going to get second or you're going to get third. And they're like, like, except that, you know, it's like, when you think that they're on that level mentally and you're like, so I get you third right now, you know, we're just a little flat or the other guy's legs and his complete whatever it is, you know, and they're like, what do you mean? You don't have me in first, it's like, well, nobody has you in first, that's why you were in the third or second spot. You know what I mean? Like, this isn't like, there wasn't a six person split middle call out, like, there's a dead first and then you're on the other side of them. So it's like, I'm not different than the judges, I'm seeing why they're going the way they are and I'm trying to explain that to you. So, you know, we know we maybe want to work on something for the finals, maybe we look for a fuller look or maybe we've got to try to get a little bit drier, just so we know going into the next show what we got to do differently. But like you said, some people, they just say, they can't, they can't see that. No, I've had to say to clients before no one in this venue wants you to win more than I do. I'm your trainer. My name is on you. You think your mom wants you to win? Bitch, I want you to win more than your mom wants you to win, but you're not going through. It ain't looking like it right now. Like, great. All right. I like this one. That dude in the middle ain't no French Polynesian. If you straight up, add your Aboriginal tribe. I might know that guy. I might know that guy. Okay. Yeah. That's funny. What about got issues in Gird with, we talked a little bit about Melanatine too. Got issues, Gird stomach acid with Melanatine too. Two questions. Gird and other guy said he tend to get stomach acid. Is that common? And there was, I thought, another one. Oh yeah. Yeah. Somebody asked Skip about your history with Melanatine too. In the past, you talked about high hematocrit from it. So I figured I'd just kind of lump all three of those things into this one little mini topic here. Yeah. The high hematocrit is related. I haven't had the issues, but it is related to the older demographic. Much like typically the younger demographic doesn't have as much of an increase in hematocrit from, say, running a cycle or even running TRT. It just tends to the older you get the more prone. I think you are to running, you know, more viscous blood, thicker blood, more viscous blood, higher numbers. It's the same thing from what I've seen. The handful of people who have reached out to me have all been part of the older demographic that have had those higher numbers. It's not common, but it's not uncommon. It's there. It can happen. As far as Gird or, you know, heartburn, I've used Melanatine arguably more than, I don't know, maybe anybody. I'm not sure 2006 and I've been on it, you know, pretty much straight through. Have cancer screenings have, you know, the dermatologist type thing and, and we've had long conversations with them cancer specialists that specializing skin cancer and everything else. And they have agreed that the Melanatine is kind of a not a prevent not a protective like it's going to save you. But it does have those preventative measures because damage tends to happen to fair skin people don't when they burn and you're not as likely to burn. So it's not as much exposure to the sun that's damaging. It's the overexposure or the burn. As far as the heartburn, no, I've never had it. I've never once had it and I don't know or I can't think off the top of my head of any clients or friends who have said that they've had those issues. Not saying that they could have never brought it to me. Okay, I got it and I forgot about it because like I probably had a lot of factors going on, but I in the past when I used it and probably wrote it off as something else. But I remember using Melanatine getting stomach acid issues and you know, just wrote, you know, never thought about that. But then when I used it again this past year before the Olympia was using the nasal and I do one pump or two pumps a day. Very very small dose, but once again I started occasionally getting stomach acid. It'd be like, oh, this is not like me. I don't get this anymore and then I realized, oh yeah, I started in Melanatine again. And then I kind of synced it up or I wouldn't take it for a few days and no stomach issues. Take it for a few days and all of a sudden I'm getting that stomach acid again. So I don't know what that could be related to. I'm thinking it maybe it's kind of that like when you're not used to it, you know, how you can get there is that like nausea type feeling. There's I don't know what's causing that, but I think that's it's tied to that in some way. There's some sort of gut thing happening, you know. I have patiently waited to come and to make this kind of it. So you are a one or two pump kind of guy. I just want to go and hear myself saying it. And I do one pump or two pumps a day, one pump or two pumps, one pump. I heard myself saying I just patiently waited, which I don't normally do. It just waited to get that in there. The other thing is this specific to any symptoms with Melanatine usage. If you could take a low very low dose daily, any symptoms from flushing to feeling nauseous and all that is going to be minimized greatly with daily doses versus even something as simple as every other day. A lot of people will say, and sometimes it even happens to me, I don't feel daily doses. But if I go a week where I don't take it on vacation and then I come back the first dose, it kind of like, oh, yeah, I feel a little off for few minutes. Not really noticing, not flushing, not feeling nauseous, but you know, that warm feeling and just off for a few minutes. And then it goes back to normal. So I would say that if you're having issues with the third or the type of heartburn, are you taking a low dose daily or are you taking it, you know, like every third day or three times a week if you are take it daily. And it even take a little bit of benadural with it. Now that may not help with the girl it may may not. But being an histamine, it can help the nauseous feeling in, it can help that that flush face sort of feeling that most people get to. It'll help to minimize sides at least for the first week or so when you start taking. What sounds good? All right, question for the next blood spot and gear. Okay, after 15 week push phase, I want to do a mini cut and also a cruise to regain health markers before starting another push phase. Is it a bad idea to combine a mini cut and a cruise straight after my push phase, like risk of losing new muscle. How would you guys plan this example 15 weeks push then cruise plus mini cut then push phase or rather push mini cut while still blasting then going to the cruise phase for eight weeks to regain markers. Certainly depends on the situation and the athlete, but I think we've, we've all kind of said in the past that we probably don't want to pull drugs in a lot of food at the same time. Especially, you know, you just hopefully built some new tissue you want to cement it in, right, you don't want to pull a the anobox stimulus and b, you know, the building blocks for that stimulus right at the same time. So my move typically and not all the time, but typically would be like let's solidify and maintain current clock intake. And then maybe four weeks later start looking at poems and calories back, you know, the variable I usually pull when we pull gear back is training volume or training either volume or frequency. You know, if you're a five guy day, we'll probably go down to four days for three or four weeks just so your body can adjust to that lack of firepower that you, you were experiencing previously when you're on cycle. And then, and then we'll start working on, you know, the next phase of are we clean it up a little bit before we start the next blast perfect, you know, go like that. If it's diet changes, if if diet changes need to be made, I want to make them as subtle as possible. I don't want any aggressive moves, I don't want any big drops that sort of thing. And I agree with you as far as recovery, the first thing that's going to go any time that you lower calories or you come off gear transition off cycle is going to be recovery. That does not mean I think sometimes people get confused, they say, oh, you know, I probably shouldn't train as hard, you know, I got a back off load. You get to train your ass off, you just need a little extra recovery time, so adding a bear rest. It doesn't sound like much, but over four weeks that's four days. If you can cut back even, you know, a little bit on volume as well, start to taper it down a little bit cool. The thing is, as we tend to when it comes to volume, it comes to anything volume intensity or whatever. You tend to want to maintain that as much as we can and ride out of the cycle because a lot of times when you come out of the cycle transition to TRT phase, even if you don't, you just come off. There's still two, three, four weeks that you're going to continue to gain and you're not going to feel much different in the gym. So you want to ride it a little bit, but at the same time you want to be proactive and know that the recovery is, it's not going to be as optimal if you don't make any changes proactively coming out of the cycle. The first couple weeks, I'm probably going to ride it as far as the training, the training milieu or the training variables. And then I'm going to start to be proactive with that. How often do you guys get? So when you pull someone off the gear, they've been on an 18 or 20 weeks cycle and you keep the diet the same. And you may be recommend a chaos fullback. If you're going five days a week, let's pull back to four or maybe one day less out of two weeks in terms of training, something like that. And they're like, dude, I'm gaining even faster now. And they're like, I'm getting stronger. And I've said this before, but I think it's from your pulling some of the toxicity of your body. And I think that's a major factor, the stress, the information. I think those are all factors because sometimes people are like, like, because this hit a hit a, you know, nerve in my head when you said skip. Now, people are still improving like three, four weeks later after they drop back to TRT. And I think that's one of the factors is just reducing some of that toxicity on your body for a while. I do that. We've talked about it before on the show. I feel great during TRT. And I'm like, wow, how can my recovery be this good now? I'm making subtle proactive changes in there. I'm not writing everything the same with the same variables when I make that transition. But a lot of times that recovery, I'm actually amazed by how good the recovery is. And arguably it could be as simple as this towards the end of the cycle. You're banging so much more frequently and so much harder with the intensity even just psychologically you may not even notice it. But you're right on that edge of overtraining. And then when you do come off that information, like you said, drops the system arguably becomes a little bit more efficient. I'm trying not to cough, but I couldn't hold it. Sorry. So then it starts to increase in there and then as you make those proactive changes, then it just, it's in there's nothing, there's not a much better feeling than when you go into a TRT phase and you just feel that recovery. You just feel great. It makes the TRT phase that much more enjoyable and tolerable and productive. Yeah. I'm curious that. All right. Does taking gear before you meet or before you're getting close to your max genetic potential of muscle tissue decrease your enhanced genetic potential. I don't like on separating them but repeat that. Yeah. Sorry. Taking gear before meeting or getting close to your max genetic potential of muscle tissue decrease your enhanced genetic potential. No. And I don't even know, but I don't, that's why I don't like to separate it. There's just genetic potential. I don't, I understand what he's saying. You know, maximize your genetic potential naturally. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Your natural potential. And then you have a different level of enhanced. It's just genetic potential because at the end of the day, you're crossing over it. If you were never to cross over, then your your genetic potential would be natural. Anyway, I don't, I don't like to look at it. It's okay that he's doing that. I understand the question. I don't look at that. I think a lot of people don't look at it that way. All right. It's, is he coming out of from an angle of should I write out my natural gains as long as I should before I, I would even say no to that. And I don't, I think you probably differ Scott because I know I think you take me to a little bit more of a, I'll say safer approach than maybe myself and even skipwood, but in the sense of like I view my job is to get you to a place that you're eventually going to go as fast as possible. And you know, safe still, but like faster than wood than you would without me, right? So in my mind, we know PEDs work in, in as skip is pointing out your genetic potential is your genetic potential. It's not like there's a caveat because you use gear. You don't use gear. Your genetic potential is your potential. If we can get you to that genetic potential to peak of it faster, I would start gear if I was 14 if I could. I'm not advocating for that. I'm just I went and everything for that. I was a fur that you had a foundation first like and that foundation is like learning how to train. So yeah, we would differ in that way. So let me, let me caveat that with, you know, be in in the gym when I was 10 years old and be in a round bodybuilders and by 12 years old, I had a split, you know what I mean like yes, you know, I had a full split. So my point is known myself knowing that I had built the foundations and you know, I was eating five meals a day at 12 years old and you know, was it as perfect as as as as as as it is that I know, but it was there's a protein component, a good car, but piece of fruit, you know what I'm saying? Like I was already in that mindset as such a young age. I know that's not kids today, but I'm just saying. I don't know what I'm saying. Like I, I maybe we differ a little bit on when you should start gear, I guess. And I would ask you this, Andrew, do you feel like your gym, your end result genetically differed because you started gear earlier? No, neither do I. That's where I, and I think we agree on it. You're not going to get further in the, in my opinion, you're not going to get further. Your end game is not going to be more advanced if you wait. And I would even argue and say, and I'm a, I'm a perfect case of this. I've been training for 41 years. I would have liked to have gotten to my max potential a lot earlier because training years are like dog years. So you get to the point where you're training so much and you have so many years behind you that now you're dealing with injuries, you're dealing with joint issues, you're dealing with all these things where Let's get to the, I don't want to say get there as fast as possible, but as optimal as possible. And let's not waste a lot of time. At the same time, I am not advocating for someone to start training and get on gear. But I don't think it's going to change the end result. You're not going to go further. Yeah, that's where that's why I look at that genetic potential as a, as a marker no matter whether it's natural, it's enhanced. If you're going to cross that, well, it's the same, it's the same end result. Who's got the best genetics in our sport right now for bodybuilding, open bodybuilding? That's a key only. Just because of the big fan of that, but that look, but whether it's key on or Samson or Derek or whoever, one of those top three four guys in the world, right? Do we think if they would have waited three more years to start gear, right? They're pretending to matter better than it is today. It wouldn't matter. It wouldn't matter. Yeah, I would say I would want somebody to be an adult, but that's a different topic. You know what I mean then, then their genetic potential for sure. And I would say I'd want people to have two years. Let's say give yourself two years of consistent training. And that, I guess, also isn't about the genetic potential. It's like the, are you actually going to do this and stay with it kind of thing? That's a good point. It's a different topic. Are you going to do the lifestyle? Yeah. I got to jump. It's not the actual potential. Has nothing to do with the potential I guess, you know? Or are you going to say I'm like, and he gets his pro card at 21 and he decides at 24, they're just going to go in, it's going to be a musician. I mean, you know, he's going to go back to the hybrid. I don't know, you never know. You know what I mean? It's like, damn. Yeah. Did you guys see that guy? I don't remember. I don't know what his name. He was taking shots at Samson. Look. That Tim. I don't know. I didn't know Tim before Tim started taking shots at Sam. Who are you? Yeah. You're the extra guy that interviews people at the Olympia every other year. Like, who are you? You know what I mean? Like, it was like, it was obviously an attempt to grab some type of publicity cloud, I guess. Yeah. Come follow me, which backfired big time, by the way. Yeah. It was pretty pathetic. Yeah. It just as well as when Bob did it for him. Yeah. Bob, my release got a pro card and competed as an IFBB pro and has still a bit. Still. Still. I mean, it's going to be a bit Bob is just trying to, you know, clean up the somebody else's. Yeah. But my point is that Bob's already a household name and are in this. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, for sure. I thought it was classless what he did. Like, why are you saying that about Nick? You know, but regardless of that, at least Bob's. I guess I would say Bob's more entitled to his opinion because he is a stable in the sport on some way shape or food. I don't think it's hard to be trash in Nick or the arm classic or any. Those things that he's doing, but he's entitled to his opinion. This guy Tim, like, who are you? Like, you know. Yeah. I'm surprised me. Once anything to do with Bob, if he's behaving that way personally. I'm a little bit of a part of you. I'm a part of you. Officially. So I can kind of say what I feel like. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, but it's kind of odd to me. I will personally. I wouldn't want to put my brand behind that. I don't know. No. We just got uninvited to the mutant booth at the yellow. I would. Roger. Right. All right. So we did have some other stuff. We do have the. Great. Crazy intense. Insane insane insane insane. Insane. We should probably get to that pretty soon. But we did have somebody ask about. He said gets he's getting irritable on provider on 25 milligrams a day. What substances do you find to be? Like least mood affecting in a negative way. I didn't think provider and was mood affecting personally. You know what I mean? So that I would like if you were to ask me like, Hey, would provider and be safe because I'm worried about my mood getting irritable. I'd be like, oh, you'll be fine. I'm providing you know what I mean? She's what I see is that the majority of time I think people take a provider and it's usually at the end of a prep. When they're also at their lowest calories, trying to get the last bit of fat off and people are always. Excuse me. Blame AS for their lack of mood, their fatigue, all those things. And it's like, no, you're dieting on, you know, a thousand less calories than your body really wants every day. That is why you're a garage. That's why you're having these mood issues. This is why you're having sleep issues. It's not the, yeah, the PD's play a very small role in some of those things. But, and I mean, skip joke around about all this all the time. PD's make us feel like the happiest, most normal level of the, adults we could be like, I'm in a better mood when I'm running something decent. I know skip we talked about this and a lot better than than cruising when I was on, you know, 40 milligrams of test every three days, which was, you know, close to, almost no. Ooh, we, I gotta like, you know, we can't say that. It can't contact. We need to do time living. I joke, but I close to on living myself. Okay. Yeah. I hate this world we got to dance around and you can't, you can't profess towards it. But anyway, I digress my point being is that you look at, look at everything you're doing. I don't think providers the cause of the negativity that you're experiencing. I could be correlated correlated with that positive. I completely agree with you. And I think that that gets into a lot of things from trend to, there's just a lot going on there because people run trend in the off season. They don't seem to have anywhere near sleep, it's good to use and stuff. So it's kind of a perfect storm when you combine, look, I'm going to go to this. I'm going to say that the vast majority of issues with any compound, when they affect your behavior, your mood, or you think that they're, it's almost certainly the dieting. And then the compound may exacerbate that a bit. But the real cause there is your hangry. You know, dieting and feeling run down will change your mood or alter your mood, or alter your mood are more than specific compounds. Even though there are, there are some issues that people have, you know, whether it's, you know, they get, I mean, you come off, you get depressive. There's no question there with low testosterone level. But jealousy with, you know, certain compounds and stuff, I've said before, I have a hard time buying into the compound being the main reason or the main driver as far as how someone acts. Unless you're just an asshole because I will say that hormones make, they clearly make people more aggressive. There's no question. I mean, they've done studies on what the, the more violent crime, salted behaviors and people tend to have higher testosterone levels. And there are studies that are back then. The majority of people in prison are male. Yep. That's all that. That's all you need. Like that's, you know what I mean? Yeah. Yep. Guys, let's talk about intro workout carbs and saving money. So like the past 10, 15 years, intro workouts become super popular. It's a great way to support, pre workout insulin use. It's great for recovery and it's great for endurance and those long workouts. Here's the thing, it's really expensive. It's not only expensive for us, it's expensive for supplement companies. They really don't make a lot of money off of it. That's where true nutrition comes in. So true nutrition, they're not only a retailer, they're also a manufacturer. They're actually making a lot of the products that you guys are already buying from other companies. So just think about it. You're going to cut out the middle man. The only thing you're going to miss out on is the fancy labels and the branding. Outside of that, you're getting the exact same high quality products, but you're getting it directly from the source. If you're going to pay for the price of highly-branched liquid, dexterity and ensure that you're getting 25 grams per scoop. Not of a mix of carbs, but just a highly-branched liquid dexterity. We can mix the other stuff in later, you know? Use our code, think, get some savings plus it's like voting for us. Let's know that you support what we're doing. All right, let's get to our hardcore set of the week and same set of the week, crazy set of the week. We have people who are hashtagging you to bunch of different stuff too. So anyway, let's see what we've got here. Let's see what everybody sent us. And I'm going to head over to this. There we go. Boom, there we are. I'm going to try to make this work this time. Let's see if I can blow this up. A little bit, there we go. Goods like this, like press. I think it's good for some stuff. Yeah, good sometimes. It shows on my back, feeling man. Yeah. If I have to leg press, I would rather leg press with that. Yeah. Then I would with a regular, yeah, because of the pivot in the platform. Yeah. Now, I wish that the platform was lower. I would want my heels at the further down on the bottom, but that's only because of the pivot. That's personal preference. Oh, wow. All right, come on. Nice. That's a good set. That's a good set. I'll take it. This was Bradley. Okay. Good job Bradley and the leg press. There's us. I'm going to get these rules here. Yeah, right. All right. Oh, this dude made something credible progress there from that before and after. To now was good work. Oh, yeah. Good job James. There's no. Let's see here. Okay. Here's another one for us. Who is this iron. I'm a rebel. Mountain dog shirt on. You know what's going to be good. All right. All right. Is this Chris Anderson? Come on, Chris. Is it Chris is on the hack squat? We should let the audio people know what's going on here. And he's Chris is last name. Chris Anderson. Anderson. One, two, three. Can you see guys? Have any played set is? One, two, three, four, five, six. I might be six in a quarter and a dime. And he's I haven't. Have you guys been counting a rap? Because I wasn't counting. I'm just waiting for it to get hard. It's getting hard now. Yeah. I just want to see the effort. He's been doing well. Oh, he's above the minimum requirement. Oh, oh, oh, oh. Constant. Okay. And he's done here. He's got a couple more ones. He once he he's like me. Constant. Rest in more. This is solid set. It's a very good set. Looks like a cool gym, too. Doesn't it? He's just an inch into the center. Did it, did it? Did it. He started over. I'm by plate 25's in 10. He said so to us for. You guys know like there's like different body-builders. I can like look in their set like this, you know, when things start to look hard, they can get like, you know, hike out like three or four more. They're just a little slower. And then there's other body-builders that like it might look like. might look like smooth butter and then they get to like that one rep and it's like there's nobody just can't do it anymore. I used to be the former now on the ladder where okay yeah yeah like you just get it and maybe it's because as an older trainer now we all focus on the form so much more that like we're just channeling that energy to perfect reps every time and there's no there's no wasted reps there's no bouncy reps there's no body English reps and so like when you're done like it's just done like there's no eakin out another rep yeah there's not another other it's not another grinder in there yeah yeah we've got Jennifer back. Same machine? Yep just want to slow down on that on that negative hold on I got I got to do something here the sound is uh gonna get a demonetized let's see here I didn't hear anything soon. You can't hear it all right go on. No good we'll keep it that way then yeah can't hear a thing all right I actually wanted to hear the sound so I could like you the grons and be like give it a you know yeah yeah the reps are getting nice. She did slow it down a little bit here now you know she was dropping them down real fast last time I do feel like there's more control here than last time and it's still a hard look like her. She didn't know no okay no good. She came from a small girl background. There's where she came from that's like I wrapped a little bite in a quarter how many were you with her when she first started she did not look anything like this. Yeah yeah she's still going oh man come on this is where we guess how many are left. I think she's got a four five. Yeah I think she's got a lot left in her here someone writes you got an easy 10 left on the bottom there that was that's Peter that's Peter talking that's like the close captions. Yeah start to get a little tougher. Yeah there there's more there. Yeah she's just going oh Jesus. Like she looks like she's gonna fail there so she had to take a little break but then she gets another one right and then another one. Oh is this it? Yeah that's it. That was a good set. That was a hell of a set there that was good. Nice. That was good. That was up there that was closing on 20 reps right. Jennifer Marie again. Yeah All right so here is Dr. Marv and Dr. Marv has a what do we call this type of people row. Yeah. I would literally blow my back within the second rep. I could never lean that far forward. Really. Yeah I have a very very limited in my older age. That's I look at him shaking on the word. Yeah. Well that's I mean he's holding that for a full like three count. Yeah. Yeah. Looks like a cool gym too. Yeah boom a NASA. I know I kind of wondered the same thing at the sneezes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. But how they get away with that? Yeah. I don't know if we should roll that out so that it doesn't hit the log. Yeah. Yeah. So corporate lawyers aren't looking around. I like the set up. Yes here and you can see us as speed on those blocks to give them a little bit more of a stretch. Yep. It's good. It gives a machining. This is vertebrae separating as we speak. Yeah. Yeah. So you can see he looks like he strapped up here too. So he doesn't have to overgrip quite as much. Oh you you cut you cut Jennifer off she said she wasn't done. She did two more after that. It stopped. She racked it. She she unwrapped it here. Yeah. I wanted to see if she may have unwrapped it again. Did you unwrapped it? Tell us it for did you unwrapped it and get a couple more. Oh my gosh. She did. She did. She said I did two more after that. So she must have unwrapped it when she was done there. Yep. There's a good set here. Like it doesn't look as sexy as like a leg, you know a hack squat or but like the troll to be able to keep pulling your arms into your stomach like that. Yeah. 13 15 reps in like more like the squat. No last week that was real tough. Yep. Yeah. That's a fight right here. Yeah. Real in a marlin or something. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's good. That was good. All right. A bad for a young guy. Yeah. She said I wasn't done Peter told me to keep going. All right. So she had a couple more in there after that. What do we have here? So this is Jeremy Holt. It's one of my clients. He is made. Rediculous progress this season. So he's I. Excuse me. Smith machine chest press in client and these first four reps look like butter with what he's got. This is a heavy part. I think it's three 15 is what he told me. Is it? Okay. Yeah. Because like that's a heavier bar. Okay. We've got a heavier bar in one of our Smith. Someone took a regular bar in 75. Oh. Is this a he says a 275 back off set to failure. Oh. After three 15 tops that was three 15 for nine. Gotcha. That's right. That's right. That's right. That was good. That's a good set. Yeah. That's good set. He's going to make some waves next year. You guys wait and see. Jacob little he's looking good. Yeah. Great little waist on this guy, huh? We're the lack thereof. It's great waist. All right. Is that all we had? No. We got more. We've got more. This is on Who it how do you say this name? The Scher. L. A. C. H. L. A. And Lack Lane. Latch Lane. This gauge. L in. Yeah. L in L in L. L. L. L. L. L. R. Lack Lane L. Lack Lane. He's on a big chest press this just loaded to the gills and so far he's at about 12 reps. Yeah. He's just. Yeah. I didn't think it's going to get this many. Dang. That's wild. Yeah. I got to watch this set again after you finish this here. You tell these almost done. Alright, I got to see this one again. It's making it look easy. Wow. 13. 14. 15. 16. Just fighting for that. That was good. You guys are like you couldn't hear the music on that. It wasn't saying. I don't even know. No, I don't even know. It was some sort of some sort of techno. There's Brandon Wise at his show. See we got a couple more here. Sam Graves. So I don't want to. Yeah, it's got here. Hamstring curl to start when I go like this. Is that there we go. Look, he's got the stack going there. Yeah. Oh it is. Yeah. Well, hamstring was that. That life fitness. Yeah. Very nice. It's good set. You got a deadlift too. Looks like it. Now, is he going straight into the deadlift? No, he's not done. Oh, is he done? Oh, yeah. He's on the rest pause. He's going to think you're right. I think you're right because this video is only a third of the way over. Oh, I don't have enough time to get up and write it down. You know what I mean? It's only 20 seconds. Yep. He's getting back in. Again. Boom, back at it. The first reps looks strong. Nice controlling the negative. Yeah, especially considering he only got two and a half reps like it's a little rough. Yep. And if he's anything like me, my hamstrings take forever between sets to recover doing a leg curl. Doesn't matter if it's seated. Doesn't matter if it's lying. It just I need two or three minutes. Otherwise, I go back in and I'm out. Those reps will get gotten half. I think it's just going again. Yeah, it's going to be a pause. Think about five seconds. Yeah. Could you do like 15 reps and then take 10 deep breaths and then do even half the reps you got the first up with the same form. You don't understand. Like so can it. I think the hamstring is just the like bicep. You know, I'm wondering how you've got one. You know, he's get the full rep. Good man. Two full reps at the end there. Very nice. All right. Now we're going over to dead. Hold on a minute. How many reps or how many plates is that? One, two, three, four, five plates in a little change. We're not going to do it. He's got his mutant Arnold Sheridan. Nice. Nice. Beautiful set. Nice. Beautiful set. Nice intensity in that. That's an exercise on they were doing again. Yeah. Oh, we got I can be pro pages with us here. Yep. What do you got here? Single leg leg press. Another another female entry, both training legs. Is that a split platform? Yes. Yeah. It is. Yeah. I didn't. I didn't throw it or crap. We got a great one. But it was a great finisher for Lake's day. I love seeing a leg leg pressus. Yeah. They're my favorite way to do them now. It's cool. I'm ashamed of the day. Yeah. Back of the day, I used to be like, wow, single leg exercises. Those are pussy. But like, you know, that's just the young, you know, need to see things on the bar kind of, you know, attitude, which now I'm like, I feel it's so much better. I guess such a deeper stretch. Yeah. Knees coming down all the way to my chest. Back doesn't hurt. Mm-hmm. She'd probably make it a pro debut. Maybe this year or next? I don't know. Yeah. I think it's this year. I forget. It told me where she was going to be when she was at. A matter at the resort, the Arnold. Yeah. Where do you know where she's from? Um, up by like Minnesota area. No chance it's Milwaukee area. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. She's from there. I just just came from there. Yeah. Yeah. I think you're okay. Yeah. I think she was at the show when you were up there, skip. She didn't know you were there. Yeah. Yeah. That's okay. That's what I was thinking. But I was a sure. All right. She's on the other leg now guys for our audio listeners. I know this is probably somewhat boring for our audio. People will be appreciate you hanging with us and don't worry. Skip's going to say something really offensive later. So you're not going to want to miss that. We don't know. Yeah. It does every episode. I've been pretty good. I think I have. I wonder if that's social candy. The, um, the gym gym. Yeah. I got, uh, you have to be, looks cool. What do I want to say? You have to be accepted. Uh, remember it's kind of an exclusive. But they have a lot of old school. This could be. Yeah. Exactly. I'm not sure. But it's, um, it's and they want to know your social media content and your social media stuff and everything else really. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. I know. That's a little weird. Yeah. I didn't, yeah. I just, so private. It's like, it's 24 seven. That's why I reach out from my, um, like, I wonder what they're looking son in law married to my daughter. Yes. You push that right to failure, too. I'm not sure. It's a good set. Yeah. Well, yeah. What are what they're looking for? I got to fit. You know, out of your, uh, out of your social media content. Yeah. I don't know. I'm not sure. But I know I got a 24 seven. I used to train now without having to, and I like that because I don't like Rachel's brother. We got Josh, but I can hear and we love animal house. That's a high in class. You move up their ship. It's, um, it's possible. It's possible. My wife is back to off on it. Um, because of her career here. And she knows that once we go up there, the advancements and everything else in the money is not going to be anywhere near the same. So, yeah, I think, well, she's back to off. It ultimately comes to her. I'm going to drop set this guys. Oh, three plates for another 12 reps. And now we're now in the two plates slower negative. Well, no, not in slower now. He's just ripping on. Now he's just getting every, he's getting everything out again. Yep. I love that. Let's like this. Yeah. Josh was on a mission. I think, you know, he's seeing what he can do. And, um, and you know, he sees he's tasting it all. I can turn pro and I think he's all in. Yep. And he's definitely thickened up. Nice. He's gone. Really. I got to get him credit. He's going to get his conditioning. Down to one plate now and he's really controlling those negatives. Just push it in and it up for one more each time. Nice. You know, come on. Come on. Still going. Still going. Well, that was good. That was a good set, Josh. When you start an overgang, he's going back to three plates. Just like that. No, I think, no, that was the video. I'm messing with you. Okay. Okay. Is that it? Is that everything we got here? I think so. Think that might have been not. Wait, wait, wait. We have more. Yeah. We have more. And there's more. Justin Montgomery on the hack. A lot of good late training today. This is funny. His kids start screwing around the background. The rest of the way. Oh, yeah. You saw this. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. He's he's off to kill this. You got three reps. Took a little pause. Dropped it down hard for his fourth rep now. Pauzing between reps. Oh, yeah. This is heavy for him. He's going hard. Knees are all wrapped up. You know, he slept well after this and he didn't walk good for three days. I suppose maybe each week or every, maybe each month we have a theme like, you know, like leg exercise 20 plus reps or something like that. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I like that idea. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Oh, yeah. I see the same back there screwing around. Yeah. Brazilian Jitsu happening back there. Come on. Come on. Come on. Yeah. It's a good set. Yeah. That looks like my hacksquad actually. It look that might be my body master hack. Actually, maybe a slightly newer version. I'm not a fan of higher platform. Or I don't like it either. But I think it is a body master. You could tell from the the the rack handles. The angle on it is so perfect. The angle on it is so beautiful. I have I only have found a few hacksquads that feel as good as this one does. All right. We just got to try the Watson one that's like literally, like if this is 90 degrees, it's like, it's like, you can set it up so it's like that. Oh, yeah. Yeah. You can adjust the the plate. Yeah. Yeah. It's hydraulic. Wait wait wait. We got Josh Brown back again. Is this the same? Is this the same that no I like to this before? When did he put this one out March 30th? So no, this is new. You can't win again though, Josh. That's the only thing. Can't win for the same exercise. I got one, two, three, four, five, six. That six plates in a bunch of change. Six hundred and seven. Geez. I watched some of those stuff on this. He's the gram too. He's dude's crazy strong. Yeah. He's certainly built. He's got a dump truck back there. Yeah. Nice. Not afraid either. You know what I mean? Like not afraid to get that one more. Yeah. I think that might be it guys. I think that might be it. I think it is. Yeah. Because then oh wait Jennifer from Jennifer's got another entry. Oh my back just my blue of vertebrae out watching her on this one with the dead. That's a rough. She really, really hit. I'm going to be honest. I don't love her form on some of it. Like she's clearly strong. Yeah. She doesn't hurt. She doesn't hurt herself either. Andrew. Like she's yeah. She can do it. Yes. That's the thing. I would know. Yeah. But I think she's going to get more growth at a cleaning it up just a little bit. And yeah. I mean, very scary though. Like this. Clearly strong. Yeah. That's totally fearless. You know, I mean, I was too whole body shaking. Yeah. Her whole body shaking is she's bringing that first wrap up. Yeah. If she does, she should compete in power with thing. If she does him, I mean, somebody's one right Maxis she can probably do. Yeah. When she started working with Dusty, she really started honing in on getting for can strong as hell. She always had it in her. But now she's really pushing it. Nice. And as far as intensity. Oh, there's there's not. Yeah. Yeah, right. We just look like we're really good. We can lift some stuff now. Yeah. So what do you guys say here? We had a bunch of good ones. I'm going to bring it back to us here. I mean, I know what I'm going to go with Jennifer. Honestly, I'm going to go with Jennifer on the the pendulum. I, I, I, she got so she got way more reps than any of us thought she was going to get. She just kept going and going and going. I'm going to go with Jennifer on this one personally. That's my vote. But I'm just one of the three of us. So you guys tell me, what do you guys give? I'm going to be honest with you. I'm very impressed with, look, I'm a two, you guys are going to laugh. But I'm a two plate pendulum guy. I get over that. And it's in heavy. She's taken a plate and a half for damn near 20 reps. And then didn't even rack it but for like two seconds and went back into it again. Yeah. That's that's pretty impressive. However, and that's right up there. I think I'm more impressed with the kids' hacksquad. I say kids are mold with the kids, kids rassling in the background because that was closer to the limit. Like as far as he could take that set, it wasn't a ton of raps. Like 20 reps or anything. But he is the one that stands out to me or even and Andrew's going to be like, I didn't like the form. I totally get it. But she that girl at the end, she wasn't going to get another rep here. That was Jennifer again. That was that was Jennifer again. That was my same girl. Yeah, that was true. Yeah, same girl. Oh, okay. Well, then in that case, then I'm going to take her with the dead over the pendulum only because to me, it was max effort. I don't like the round. I think there's a little bit around this and that lower back that could eventually end up being a vulnerability. Yeah. But they effort there. There was nothing left. And she got 32. Stay in front of her. I'd rather see that. She got 32 reps for her 30 second birthday on that on that pendulum. Rit. Yeah. In in that set right there, she got 32 reps. Oh, that's a lot of reps, man. Yeah. That's pretty. You know what either way, she's in both movements. So yeah, what about you, Andrew? And I'm not saying the others weren't great. I'll take it off. Yeah, that's so much before you go, Andrew. I got to say so the guy, the kid with the heck, all be honest, man. So he did a couple reps and then he stopped. And then in true, I think I would like to see him come back and do that again with like honestly like half the weight. Honestly, I would like to see him. And control the reps. You're like basically not keep the reps constant. Because he got like two reps and then he just like he couldn't do anymore. And then he did a series of singles, you know, as the way I saw it. And I've done that and I get the intensity of that, but being able to control constant, keep pushing constant reps, I think is to me more intense ultimately personally. So that's why I said, maybe we should start doing caveats. Okay, this is a leg movement for 20 reps continuous. Yeah. Yeah. I've second you know what I'm saying? I read what you were by your saying that. Yeah, I'm saying way, like there. Okay. Man, the guy I like, I was going to say the guy with the drop set too on the shoulder press. So I was going to go with Josh on that. Like, because I had told with me, I remember doing that shit and it's like, and I know what kind of vibe he's in right now. Like, like, yeah, he's ready to go to the next level. He's getting there. He's, he's, you know, as we say, burning the ships, you know what I mean? And you guys know that reference? No, but I liked it. Incidentally, I was like, oh, you know, the nationwide, the combination war, I came over the, the, the, the warrior commander, but said, no, no, like we're going and we're invading this, it was a carthage or one of the other countries and we're burning the ships when we get there because there's no going home. We're going to call burning your own ships. It's burning your own ships. It's do or die. Like, yeah, there's no way for us to get home. We're conquering these people. Then we're going to take their ships to go home. That's what I said. I said, you could always take their ships. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. So I like Josh is said, but I'm not like opposed to any of them, but yeah, that's kind of how I feel too though. Yeah, yeah. I just like the fact that we're seeing a lot of good training and good intensity being, you know, posted on the page, I think we need more of that. So yeah, if we don't give it to Jennifer, she's just going to come back and do 33 reps next time. You guys realize that. So maybe we shouldn't. Maybe we should. Yeah. It's just to challenge your exactly. You're Jennifer, you won't my boat. Slot down the negative just a little bit and that would be 1,000 percent. The winning set in my boat today. So all right. Just a little bit more control in the negative, no dropping on both exercises. Just because I don't want to see how I want to get hurt while we're doing this stuff. Yeah. Yeah. So does that mean? What does this mean for her? She wins. Oh, okay. She wins. She wins. Okay. That doesn't mean that you can't come back still and although you can't win again on the same exercise. I don't know. We'll have to come up with rules. But I think you're right, Andrew. What should we, how should we put this forward for the future? Let's say, we come up by committee. So, you know, we've seen a lot of good, like, stuff lately. Let's say a back exercise. Okay. Of minimum, let's say 15 reps. Marves was great, too. We didn't mention everything. Yeah. This was really killer. I feel like it is because I'm going on about control during sets. Marves had the best control. He really did. I saw a lady in that muscle, putting it right where he wants it. No jerking, no body English. Yeah. It was whole body was like shaking by the end of that set. And the guy on the machine chest press. Oh my God. That was great, too. You got like 20 reps with without stopping. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Constant rest. These are, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't vote. Guys, I can't vote. You all win. Yeah. Yeah. But how about this? What if you sort of pull? Okay. Or listen to start, you know, put it in the same thing. What if we, what if, so everybody in YouTube is going to see this, how about we let them vote? You know, I mean, you guys, for King comment and let us know who wins. We can get you that thing. Can you, can, can, I think we can. I think we can. I'll figure that out. If not, though, just comment because the comments also helped to boost us up. But you guys comment with who you want to win. And yes, you can get your friends to come on our page and comment, too, which means we'll get even more comments. I like to see what I want to do with this guy, guys. You got to be a subscriber to vote, though. Got to be a subscriber to vote. Thank you. I like that. I like that. All right. And we appreciate everybody tuning in. Leave us questions while you're at it while you're commenting comment with questions as well. Make that a separate comment. More comments. The better and go to bodybarry.com to reach out to Andrew and hit up team skip dot com to reach out to skip. What were the day had you thought anything or yeah, no. Yeah, I had it. I did have it. And I've used it before, but it just happened. It was one of the first ones I pulled up because I was admittedly not prepared. I was stuck in traffic getting here. So I apologize, but I'm missing throat. It's, or being missing traffic. And then essentially it's just the person who dislikes mankind. You just literally can't stand people in your to the point where you just want to avoid people because you cannot stand them. Plus and listen through. And you were talking to me, McNally diets at jmail.com. Go to true nutrition.com. Use our code think over their supplement source dot c a for Canadians. And of course, thank you to everybody from Patreon. Guys, I need to create a new thread over at Patreon. I've answered just about everything over there, but definitely keep loading us up with questions on the current thread. And for another episode of What's What You're Guys, we will see you soon. Thank you for tuning in. I had a great yon while we were signing off. I got an ab crash and hard.

What's up guys, welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with Coaches Skip Hill and you're Barry and myself, Scott McNeil. Guys, all of our programming is brought to you by TrueNutrition.com. You can use our code, thank for all sorts of products including Intra workout carbs, much to be part of our topic today. We're also brought to you by SupplementSource.ca. Great deals for Canadians, people of the North. You guys can get awesome deals on label changes, short dated products, stuff like that. We're also brought to you by you guys, people of Patreon. Thank you very much for your support. I've been doing early releases over on Patreon and right now there isn't just bodybuilding Patreon only episodes. I hope you guys are enjoying that. What's the topic today, Andrew? We were looking at one of our listeners. It was Justin, right? And he said, here, I'll just let me grab it and throw it up on the screen. He says, topic for the next show. Can each of you guys give your ideal pre-intra and post workout nutrition and scenario? Thanks guys, love for the show. Let's skip said, I like this one. Yeah, there's like team can said that. I'm not a carb guy, pre-workout, so I'm protein fat. That's, I hate well-known. I do get my carbs. I need about three meals for our trans, so the first two might be carbs. It's the one before our trans isn't. I hit my insulin, then I hit my intro. I have introed EA's and true lecturer, electrolytes. And then post is pretty predictable. I have stayed with the same post for a long time. Teams get protein and rice checks. So I'm down to the only one or two protein drinks a day, and that has helped my distension a little bit. But I go big on my protein. I increase my protein by about 50% post workout. So typically, I get the start of this cup phase. That was it about 120 grams. I'm OCD, so I don't do scoops. I actually weigh the powder, but 120 grams, I think that puts me at about 90. I do the math, but I think it's 90 grams of protein. And then my carbs come from rice checks, and then I get back into my regular meal. So boring, but I don't know, effective. Let me ask you this. So what was your post again? It was the rice checks and what? Rice checks and teams get protein. Okay, so after that, now how long after the workout is that? I'm one of those guys. I don't do the whole, oh, I must eat this very second, especially after legs. It takes me 15, 20 minutes to get home. I probably won't eat for another 30 minutes after legs, but typically it's 15 minutes after your home, so like that. So about an hour, so an hour. So an hour, yeah. And then when do you pick up when's your next meal after that meal? Do you just go back to like every two to three hours or how does that work? It's about an hour and a half to two hours. It depends on whether it's early in the week and whether I have loaded or whether it's later in the week, especially now as I'm cutting and I may be more depleted. What I will find is if I don't get, especially with insulin and intercarves, especially with everything still balanced on that in this huge surplus, like I had in the offseason, I have to be very careful that that meal doesn't go too long or I can get. I've got a little bit high for. That's what I was kind of wondering how that all kind of done. Okay. Would you find that with the cereals in general? Yes. Especially if you take an insulin workout. Yeah. Now I have a pretty good balance now of my insulin dose versus my intra. You have to tweak these things. So for the listeners, I was training legs on Friday and for me I typically load on a Sunday and didn't load for the first price five weeks, I think it was. So I'd have to be careful that I didn't start to get a little bit high for even before I got home. But I liked being a little bit high for you know. You start to hit and then you know, okay, now it's time to eat versus I got to go to the grocery store and I got to eat gas and oh crap I'm going high for and then you get mad. And it's not a high for where you're going to hit the floor. But it's a hype of that you, it just keeps digging a little bit more of a hole. You don't want to get, you don't want to get something. And I always have extra with me. I always have a Ziplot bag of another large serving at EA's and intra carbs. In case I do run low, you know, maybe I'm taking in more while I'm training and I just don't, you know, I don't know. Measure it right or I don't want to run out early. And I want to do calves today or hit with abs. I don't mind schedule day. I don't want to run low. Yeah. Let me also ask you. So why the 90, almost 100 grams of protein post workout and this isn't like a challenge. I think the listener would really gain from this. It's something that I've done for a long time because I consider that post training window kind of sponge time. But someone sent me a study or a couple of studies. I'm like a month or two ago and said, hey, skip, what's you? What you've been doing, I remember doing this when we trained together and these studies back up somebody posted them. I don't even know who it was. Scott and I did a thing on it. Was it the 100 gram protein? Well, the man, it was something something. It was basically that there's no real limit to an avalism in post workout window in terms of protein intake. Well, no real limit up to 100 grams because that's as high as they tested. Which that's what? Only because that says the limit, if they tested one 50, what would we find out if we tested that's what Scott did wonder. He is like, so there's no limit. You could imagine him saying that. So the limits would be related to digestive issues with that large of a protein serving at one time. Yeah. I think that's what we'd be the limiting factor. Not your body's ability to synthesize and manufacture proteins from your post workout meal. Or so, you know, when your system is breakdown, can you guys eat 400 grams of chicken in one meal? Right. I was eating thinking I'd switch to egg whites because I do get, I stay full from all that protein powder longer than I want to. But yeah, it does. It keeps me pretty full. It's a lot of protein powder, man. I think it's like five scoops or something like that. Yes. It's crazy. It seems to give shape-rape for the show started. Nice. But I was thinking about going to egg whites or something because I don't want to eat anything like, like you say, it's a lot of chicken. I don't want to eat anything like beef at that time because I'm not a big one. I'm cutting. I try to keep my fat and take, you know, relatively low unless I'm adding. If I'm going to add fat, I'm going to add it. Macadamia oil or macadamia oil or something like that. I love like it's damn the taste of olive oil. It just makes me want to gag with macadamia oil. I can tolerate things like that. So I try not to, you know, taking those heavier meats. But egg whites, could you imagine trying to eat 90 grams of protein egg whites if you'd want to throw it. And let's do it. I would smell my wife would want to divorce you because I don't deal well with egg whites. No. No. For sure. How about you, Andrew? What's your go-to or ideal? Yeah. I'm like skip, I don't completely omit carbs, but I think my pre workout meals, my lowest carbohydrate meal. Okay. You know, weight protein, cream of rice, peanut butter, you know, might be 45 grams of carbs total in that meal. More so because I don't want to have any bloat. I also feel like skip does that those carbs you're eating right then are going to do a look of anything during your actual workout. Right. And then I get to the gym. I like to take insulin and I like to use, you know, a mixture. I use our granite product called recovery, which has highly branched cyclic dextrin, electrolytes, amino acids, essential amino acids. It's got some central in it, you know, aschrogynda and a few other cool supplements. I'm not huge on the pre workout drinks, especially the ones that, you know, like the the statement ones. I really have turned away from those five, six, maybe even eight years ago. Maybe like the last couple weeks for prep. I would use one, but I just find that using stuff like that gives me more of stomach ache going into a training session and the very last thing I want, which training is to have stomach blow and stomach issues. So I kind of admit that kind of stuff. Um, in terms of amounts of intro, it depends, you know, back in the day, I could do 150 grams of carbs with a good amount of insulin. Sure. These days and you guys probably can attest to this as you get older, your ability to handle that kind of stuff during training just isn't what it was. So, you know, if I can get 75 grams of an intro carbon, I'm doing pretty darn good. Uh, and then I'm just still a good amount. That's still a good amount of carbs. Yeah. Is it? Yeah. I'm okay. So I'm about 50 and less. It's like day later in the week than I might push up to 75. So we're, I think, when kind of in the same ballpark. So you know, I'm fine now between your last meal and when you train. Uh, so if I eat at 11, we're doing like our first, I would say working set by 1230. That's about what I am to let it out. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, I want to get takes 30 to 40 minutes get to the gym because where we're coming from. And then, you know, we take, especially we're doing legs. We're doing 15 to 20 minutes of warm up stuff before we even get into it. And I'm not counting like calf work because we do calf work first quite often. Um, you know, I don't count that as anything that's going to create like a systemic um, sympathetic effect on my body. So like that, I can do that while warming up basically. Um, and then, uh, I like to wait some days. If it's like days, I might wait two hours to eat when I get out of the gym because we've had some killer workouts lately that just leave my whole systemic like my my my my neurological system just like smoked to where I don't feel the hunger even for, you know, hour to half. So, but my my post workout meal, I do more of a solid meal. So I should say that too. If I was doing a shake and like a cream of rice or even a cereal, I would definitely be able to eat a lot sooner. But I do, um, right now it's just white fish, rice and avocado oil. I've been the big fan of avocado oil. So usually, you know, it's 230 grams of fish. Usually about 400 grams of rice. I have an apple with it and about 15 grams of avocado oil. So it's a decent, you know, decent complex meal. And again, and I should also say this, I'm doing more of a clean if a picture macro of these days because you, well, you guys know, like when we get in our lifestyle, if you have, you know, a workout and then you're trying to go a podcast later, you know, within that timeframe, I might have to go with a cereal and a way shake to get my post workout it because just the way the schedule works out. But a typical day I'll rely on that more solid meal somewhere in the hour to two hours after training. Yeah, you guys don't even want to know what I can cocked it together for my post workout. Because I literally, I was eating right before we started and my post workout was, I was like, okay, well, I don't want to get too many carbs in right now. I carbs previously. So I had a piece of bread with some, um, what do they call it? Like the, the healthy lunch meat, the stuff that doesn't have like all the nitrate sitting and stuff. I literally ran to the store because I knew I, I wanted to have a monster any dream tomorrow morning. It was like the only time I can go is right now. If I leave now right after my workout, I can get this and I ran up there. I got that I ate that, uh, half a sandwich, uh, on bread and, um, and two scoops of team skip. It was literally all I had. So I'm not going to say that like what I'm talking about here is podcast where they, you know what I mean? Like I didn't prepare my pre-workout. I had eaten like a couple hours beforehand. But I can tell you this that in my more serious days of bodybuilding, which I'd love to get back there for good, um, I would say that I needed to have a good amount of carbs. Like, and I needed to eat, I would say time it up ideally perfect would be about one hour before training. If, if I were to wait longer than that, I'd just be shot. Even without insulin, I would start going hypone the gym. You know, after I'm done training, we're not doing calves with the injury. We haven't even started the workout yet. I'm like ready to leave. I'm ready to go meet you. You know? Well, I think you told us to in the past that you would go hypone when you're working your route, uh, delivered soda. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I've always had like, you've watched your girl like, you've watched your girl like, you've watched your girl like, you've watched your girl like, yeah. Yeah. You've been one like we'd be getting on a show before we'd start recording. You'd start having like these trickles to sweat and I'm like, I know what that means. You called it after a while. You've called it after a while. You've called it after a while. You're hypone right now, aren't you? You always have the stuff. You did. But I would say a deal would be in the thing that worked really good for me was sweet potato and lean beef. Lean beef head is the fats kind of slowed everything down. Yeah. And I just felt like I got good pumps eating sweet potatoes for some reason. Maybe it was the beef and sweet potatoes. Magic for me. And it was heavy enough that it stuck with me through the workout. Any more if I do an intra, it's going to be like 25 grams, honestly. And I found that honestly like even a small amount of carbs like 25 grams, it does enough for me to boost my recovery. I don't need to do like 50 grams of carbs or what I had done in the past. Like going really high like we've talked about before. But yeah, 25 would be about it for me right now. If I were to try to use insulin nowadays, it'd probably be like two through units would be literally it. But I don't have a need for it at this time. But in the past, it would have been that big meal and then one hour later, playing to be in the gym 15 minutes before trading, take the insulin, start drinking my intra, the minute I got there. And then probably I would do a couple of scoops of protein after I was done training, just because it was going to take me an hour to drive home. And I'd be getting hungry. And then, but I didn't use carbs with that because I just had carbs all through the workout. And then about an hour later, going to my next meal, which I would then do a solid food meal with whatever my macros were at the time. You know, probably six ounces of meat and you know, couple cups of rice or something like that in a veggie. And I think you made a good point too, that should be touched on. When you have intercarves, that should impact your post workout carb intake. 100%. And I think a lot of people will give, they start taking the intra, then they're like, oh, I'm getting fat. This isn't working because they left their post, their post workout carbs the same. So, which one are you in a blame? The intra or the post workout? I don't know. I like to exploit our use to explain the whole intra thing, as you're basically taking your post workout meal and making it digestible meal during your training. That's not going to affect your parasympathetic nervous system and cause digestive, or shouldn't be caused digestive issues. And then that kind of ring to bell for a lot of people, we're pertaining to that issue of like, I feel like I'm getting fat. I do on this intra, I do my post workout, and then we look at the plan and be like, well, you've to consume like 400 carbs in this like last three hour period. Like, of course you're getting fat, you know? And with my increase in protein, I'm able to cut the carbs down too, because obviously, you don't need as many carbs with it. And they added protein posts work out at roughly 50% above what I normally would take in, and then of course the intra as well. So, intra carbs. What they go say that's changed for me over the years is that I'll do this quite often where I actually won't do any intra during like training days. Like if it's going to be a hard workout. Just because I know like systemically, I just can't take it. I start to feel like the girls are running into the bathroom, thinking I'm like dry-haven actually, and sometimes even throwing up, whereas 10 years ago, you know, like I said, I was using upwards of 150 grams of cyclone texture and during like a like day or something like that. So, that's definitely been a shift for me. And I just consider that like listening to my body and making decisions based off what my body can actually handle versus no, you have to get your intra to work out in. Somebody's I just do water. You know, if I feel like water's going to be the most advantageous thing for me, I'll just do water. And we do something a little bit different with our intra too in the sense that you like to drink half of it or something pretty much out of the date. I think there's a whole lot of that. Oh, okay. Then it probably would be closer to the same then. For some reason I thought that you drank maybe up to half or something like that. I'll get a good situation where someone was intra and insulin and was training fasted. Where I said, I would probably start drinking that on the way and get a bunch of big sense. Yeah. And then the fear is you know, you're waking up already, probably very fairly low blood sugar or low is going to be at most meal out of the day. I would hate for someone to add insulin in and follow like a 20% protocol and get behind and in like during the workout. Like, oh man, like I'm sweating. I'm feeling the cold chills like, you know what I mean? Like you got to think the intra's got to be additive to your workout. Got to you know, it works energetically for your workout. It's there's no rule that says you have to use an intra to have a good workout. It should be used to to improve the quality of your workouts. And if it's not, then don't use an intra. And we don't use intra. I think the three of us to earn that intra. I'm sorry, three of us don't use pre workouts, right? I can't because of nerve, well, I could, but it would have to be without beta, our name and a lot of these, I'd have to be very, very particular about it. The only thing I do is I do have a monster zero with my meal. Um, it's just a ritual, I guess, that I done in a kind of, I don't know if I say it wakes me up. I could probably not do it. And I might not notice the differences. I don't train until an hour and a half later after I have some synthetic caffeine. Probably isn't given me a huge boost to two hours in. I will. I will sometimes, but not a lot. They might do like a half a scoop or I just got this new tropic product from mutant and it's good. I liked it because I took a half a scoop of that, too. And then I felt like after my workout, I did all my work, like just like plugged right in. And you know, so it's kind of, it was like a, a pre workout pre work out in pre work. Uh, plan. Yes, but I use, uh, I didn't mention my, my intra all use, um, the MPA muscle intrusion at Trinutrition. And honestly, I could buy the E a is themselves and use like the E a plus to flavor. My highly wear sickly ducstron. I think that could be great. But I just love that lemon ice flavor. Like it's my, it's my favorite. So it's literally the reason is because I like the flavor of it. Me. Yeah, no, I don't, I don't love it. I use a non-s dim pre workout sometimes, but it's usually like even a half scoop of that, where it says to use two scoops, I'll use just like a little bit. It's really just water flavoring on the way to the gym. I like, I like Seattle's more than anything personally. Yeah, there you go. Hey, what's off, guys? I've a lot of people who reach out to man, a regular basis who are trying to more effectively reach their goals. One of the biggest mistakes I see people make is that they're not getting enough protein. And there's only so much chicken breast we can eat through the day, but we can easily add a high quality protein supplement to boost those numbers. Uh, Trinitrition has just about every protein powder you can think of from high quality weight isolate. If you don't tolerate lactose, then you can use their beef isolate or you could use their P protein isolate. If you don't eat animal products, they literally have everything you think of. I believe in them for like a decade before they advertised with us. And they, they never went out of their way to say like, hey, we want to promote our stuff through you. I literally asked them because it's a company that I believe in. And at the end of the day, I want to see you guys reach your goals as effectively as possible. So if you use our code, thank you Trinitrition, you'll get some savings. You'll help to support our programming and you'll get some high quality products to more effectively reach your goals faster. Um, let's see if we have time for questions. We're going to try to just do a really short episode here. We don't have the time for for a full long one, but we didn't want to leave you guys hanging. This is one that I think all of us kind of resonated with. Um, let's see, he says, when dieting in food is down. Have you ever had experience in using a micro dose protocol of some agglutide to fight off the hunger hormone? Um, what dosing would be used for this? I didn't know some micro dose. Um, and the other thing is, I'm curious what you guys experienced as my experience with some agglutide is. That's not, that's not going to be, at first it's going to take a while before you get the appetite thing. I mean, that's why you only have to take it once a week. I mean, this is a very, very long half-light. Uh, I also didn't see the effects until like a handful, I mean, I'm not a handful, but three weeks in. I mean, it takes a while and even arguably, you know, the, the dosing steps up from, you know, 0.25, may do 0.5. So you don't really start to see those until that dosing starts to go up to, I mean, it helps. But there's nothing terribly obvious or dramatic happening until those dosages do get higher. And then, you know, it's almost a higher the dosing goes in the longer you're on it, the more impressive it can be. I don't have any experience with some agglutide with someone who's a competitor, but I am curious. So I have one situation I won't get into, but they, because it's a long situation, but with the guy and the main reason we're going to it, we had to pull out of the show to reset and tell him, carrying a lot of weight and just, it's been slow going. It's just things are coming to a crawl. And went back and checked blood glucose levels and they're fast at it in the 130s. So it's like, oh, you know, almost a little bit of shit. Yeah. So we're like, okay, we need to reset everything. We need to get you off, you know, T3 clan things like that. I don't know, specifically, but there's T4, T3 and clan and they're not a very high dosages, but yeah, you can move off that before put them on the semi-glutide, because the color of the semi-glutide will increase the effectiveness of T4 and T3 by for some people up to like 30%. So certainly, you don't want to throw a semi-glutide in top of that. So we're pulling that out first where we almost had that out and then we'll start to semi-glutide. But I'm curious to see how he's going to respond to that. The obvious thing would be to come off growth hormone, because that can be obviously playing into blood sugar levels 2. Then of course there's the insulin route, but we're both on the same page as someone I've worked with for a long time. And we had battle. He doesn't have a great metabolism anyway, that this is a different situation. He had a surgery on his hip, a surgery on his lower back for a few minutes. Fusion, things like that. So during that time, he gained a lot of weight and we're struggling to get it off. So that's going to be my kind of case study, I guess, for someone who's far more bodybuilding related than just Jen Pop. I'm going to be honest. I'm more skeptical of any of the drugs that have hit the market over the last couple of years, because I'm going to go down a small rabbit hole here, but I've been reading a lot of books about the pharmaceutical industry lately and about how the testing, when they make claims that these products are safe, whether it's a vaccine or it's a drug that hits the market or whatever, a lot of these companies they bypass a lot of the phase 1, 2 and 3 clinical trials, or they do them in countries where they don't have to report the adverse effects in the same way that we do in the United States. There's a reason why a lot of these drugs, the things are tested in Africa, for instance, because their standards are much lower than ours. And it's sad to say, but their population is obviously, you know, they're not as economically doing well as we are, and their countries will take pharmaceutical money to run these tests and define results that are advantageous to the pharmaceutical companies. And I say that because, well, me doing the research is kind of a side thing, because I'm on this kick to find out more about the pharmaceutical industry as a whole, so we'll leave it at that. But I started really thinking about this and pertaining to some glue tied with a client that was using it for contest prep. What a very successful prep, shrimp row. It was great, but she had a lot of side effects, and we weren't used in hardly any, you know, maybe a milligrams week or something like that. What kind of side effects was she given? Yeah, I'm curious as well. Well, you mentioned the side effects related to T3T4, that was a big one, like really massive, and we weren't using T3 with this prep. Massive, like she went to the hospital for massive hard issues to where they gave her monitor and tested, you know, take a cardia and all that kind of stuff. So the heart rate, the resting heart rate was through the roof, through the roof, like through the roof, through the roof, for, you know, and then the digestive issues, you know, that people get the company, you know, the gastroamping and constipation, that kind of stuff. I'm trying to remember the other sides, but it was enough to make me really say, okay, this isn't just the magic compound that we can use to stick in points or, you know, and I also look at it as a whole, you know, they're really pushing this stuff on kids because our kids in America are like 70% overweight, 60% or 50% obese at this point. We're trying to treat a problem that we're trying to take the easy effects, the bandage approach, you know, versus like, hey, you know, exercise more, take vitamin D, take all the things that we know, you know, this could be like a two hour long speech from me. So I'll, I'll do it again. But I'm not like, as convinced, some of the side is a net positive for our demographic right now. Here, okay, so we say our demographic do mean our demographic embodied building or just in our, like, our society itself. I'm saying specifically our, like our clients, whether they're in pop or they're. That's what I'm wondering. That's what I'm wondering too. Here's, if I got to say something about this. Well, yeah, someone is 400 pounds, a female is 400 pounds and this could extend her life. Yeah. I absolutely, because she's going to lose 150 pounds off of it. I think that's the application because she was going to die young anyway, right? Yeah. For people like that we work with that, let's say our gen pop people want to lose 25 pounds. Well, look, we can do that. It's going to take a year, maybe two years for a lot of you because we're going to have to start and stop and pull back at times, but we can do that. You know, contest, prep people, we could do it in 15 to 20 weeks because you're motivated and we just got to work harder. But yeah, that's kind of where I'm staying I think there's a middle ground and I think that's what you're kind of getting more to word Andrew when you're talking about like the extremely obese person. Sure. I think there's a middle ground. I do think that it's being like overused like crazy, you know. Victoria's talked about using it. She had been prescribed, Lyrglu-Tide, which is fast acting, which if this person and I'm not saying that it's a good idea to add something in, but if you wanted something to hit right on that spot, Lyrglu-Tide's a daily administration, I'll say. He's not a word of that. Yeah, yeah. And she had been prescribed to that in Canada since like 2018. But she was prescribed it for PCOS, the way that we'll use like what he called, metformin, metformin, you know, for the same type of thing. So I think it can be beneficial for situations like that since she's had so much experience with it. She's gotten really good with understanding how to supplement to support that digestive stuff. But I think it's tricky. And I think like you know like like, like, here's the thing in bodybuilding where you're already have a chance. All right. If you're dealing with a high-level female competitor, she already has a good chance of getting constipated and having issues with digestion even without that stuff in there, right? So I think it's tricky to add that in. I would say that when we start talking about using it for bodybuilding, I do think there's benefits. I do think it's middle ground. I could say so much more. It's interesting because now I'm seeing her dad started using it. He started using some agglutite for fat loss. And he's getting shamed now, which is interesting. He's getting shamed by people who are like, oh, well, you know, once you stop taking it, it's all going to come back. These guys are those zempians. That's the negative. That's those are the people who are taking it. And you know, because you're weak. And you get it. It's like the lid-tard type of negative. It's a pejority. Yeah. It's just because we make up, you know, nasty. It's like you if I took the same drugs you took. Wow. Okay. Exactly what it is. So you don't want to agree with you. Go ahead. No, I was just saying so. So that said, you know, I don't want to sound like that. But I do think that there is something to be said about enduring the suck when it comes to bodybuilding and learning how to get through it the way we always have. I do think that it's not as simple. I mean, Andrew, you're a high-level coach. You've been doing this for a long time. You've worked with a lot of people and you ran into an issue with this particular lady, you know, and it could happen to many others. I wouldn't just like, hey, I'm hungry and it's really tough. So I'm going to just grow this in. And I think that's the problem that we're running into. As a lot of people are just like, oh, hey, I'll just take this, you know. Let me back to the point of second all because also this wasn't a compound that I saw it out for her to take. Like I was having to work with a hormone replacement company to get her anovar and to get some TRT replacement. And they pushed it on her. Of course they did. So it's a big money maker right now. It's like I drive by my road. There's signs. These big blow up signs that say, someone glued out here, turns up here or wherever you say it here, sold here. Like, you know, $100 a month for injections, stuff like that. And look at society. And society is going to jump all over it because they're all talking amongst themselves. And it's working for the average person because all they're doing is eating less. Now the study that bothered me was that they were saying that an extensive study shows that 40% of the weight loss is actually muscle tissue. That's it. So then when I started to apply, which which makes sense because they're still eating like shit. They're just eating less. Right. It's gastric emptying. It's like that meal that you ate will just slowly digest. It's so much not. Of course you're not going to have blood sugar levels because gastric emptying is, you know, just being slow too. So they're talking amongst themselves. You don't have to do anything different. You can still have your drinks and they lose, you know, 30 pounds, 40 pounds, whatever over the long term. My argument, and this is why I'm intrigued. And my situation I think is a little bit different with my client too because of the higher blood sugar levels. Yes, it could be that pull them off the grow hormone. But the growth hormone dosing isn't really all that high. That would be pulled first if there wasn't this option and we weren't at the same page to try it. But he's also been in a deficit for a while. His loading has been incredibly clean and we're talking like a polky bowl once a week. I mean, we're not talking anything off the, and his carbs are very low. So outside of the growth hormone, there should be no elevated blood sugar levels like that. And with the GH dosing, it arguably still shouldn't be that high anyway. So we're going to give it a shot. We're going to see. My thing is with the weight with the muscle loss. I think that's coming from the study is coming from the gen pop population. It's not training. It's certainly not on any type of gear. They're just not to eat. Because I've seen my clients who train and they're not on gear and they're not having any type of muscle loss. They're gaining their progressing. They may not be progressing like they would be if they were on gear and not using some of which I've put the progression is still there. And you know, you guys know the symptom. It's kind of ironic that I was probably talking to you guys about my one client who had the higher heart rate issues and then you run into that with your with your client. It's like good. And that has to be washed. And in this industry, it can be overlooked or people cannot know that something is small as a small T4 dose that you might be honoring. You might add to the semigruta. It could create resting HR problems and they can be big. It's good. It's good stuff guys. What about before we we left because I know we got to keep it short. We didn't cover one aspect injured. You had a really I think ingenious thought. We got on the last question. The question about DACA causing issues for people. Guy said that every time when you take the shot with DACA in it, you throw up. We got somebody else Matt Blavins. He said that he'd get extremely nauseous from it and he said whether it was DACA and P.P. No matter what had these problems. And I'm impressed by this. This is really it. It was just a meeting at smart. You're clearly smart. But I just literally went shit. It didn't even occur to me. Try to let me know. No, but I mean so keep in mind like I'm not saying I've seen research on this. I'm not saying this is the fact. I'm saying just thinking about the problem and thinking a little bit outside the box. These guys are saying Matt and the other person who asked the question were saying that basically all NANDRALON derivatives are causing this issue of making them feel like they have to throw up or they want to vomit. They feel sick. So I start thinking, okay, there's probably a relationship with some people with NANDRALONS in particular increasing a cost annoyed and cost the clandons to the point where it is causing reverse pairstalsus in terms of making them throw up basically. And then you know, skip you brought up the point of S.A.Cline. And why don't you describe that real quick? S.A.Cline just basically I put it in the category of S.A.O. because it's it's not like oil just volumizes like synth-all, but S.A.Cline actually is used to create. It's the same look you're actually, but it's to create inflammation. And within inflammation comes prostaglandins. That's why when you have a headache, you have inflammation, you have a higher level of prostaglandins and we take ibuprofen to decrease prostaglandins and then you don't have a headache anymore. So if it's a prostaglandin issue with the DACA, then you have to wonder and again I have no idea, but I mean logically I'm thinking take ibuprofen and see if that doesn't knock down that sickness issue. But S.A.Cline and I should be clear on this. S.A.Cline, the reason that I brought that up to is one of the side effects for a lot of people with S.A.Cline is it would make you almost violently want to throw up or you're like your abdominal muscles contract, your stomach contract to try to like you need to throw up. So let me say though, I never knew the S.A.Cline is ascline's like an instantaneous drug. Whereas NPP and it's not instantaneous, it's a shorter ester. Tren you got different esters but mandrelones in general are longer or longer lasting drugs than say S.A.Cline. So it would make sense that you wouldn't see that side effect from the mandrelones until like these guys are describing a couple days later. And if they're taking it you know two to three doses of it a week, they probably get to the point where they're always kind of feeling nauseous, especially when they eat a meal, maybe a higher protein meal, they start to feel that contraction like and even just it can affect you mentally to where you start to gag even if you're not eating. So yeah, there are going to be so spikes. So like 48 hours the guy said 40 hours after he is when he would feel it so boom, you know two days later after that duck ad administration, there you go. And we talked about maybe throwing insides in I mean we don't like to add a compound to counteract the side effect of a compound right? Right. So the next thing you know you're taking a through Z of everything and you have all these other side effects you're managing, it's something you could try but then again you also want to worry about your stomach lining and you want to worry about your liver health. So yeah, the easier the way to do it. But it would come on what it was because if they did respond to it, then at least you would know oh man Andrew's smarter than alcohol because he crossed my mind. Skips dumb ass out there and didn't have any idea. Scott to Scott to. Yeah that was pretty good. Yeah. The very low wattage bulb came out of my head now so Andrew. You know and it's one of those things too that like I mean at the end of the day we don't need every compound we don't need to use every compound right. So if this is the case yeah it'd be like you said great to know taking the Advol figurine it out but at the same time let's use something that doesn't cause this to begin with you know. But try it again for my vanity. Yeah. Yeah. It's a learning. It's just one more thing that you would know versus let's say it doesn't work and then I go back to okay if it doesn't work then maybe it's what we were talking about solvent and or the carrier. Yeah you know also you could be doing some groundbreaking work the things that are not known in this industry because like I'm sure there's two guys in our podcast that just recognize that this is a side effect there's probably hundreds of thousands of guys they have this side effect when they run an angel and they never wondered why their coaches keep telling them to take it so like well I guess I just got a suffer through it you know. Right. No God. Even if we didn't know what we're doing I wouldn't tell somebody to keep I know. I can hit a fifth throw enough so fire that coach if he's whatever he keeps gains gains. I'm going to throw up here you go do it but are you going to lose your gains? Probably not about the gains with the Z we have time for my word doing not of course we we always have the word. The word for this show is Salula quies. You did this one before didn't you? You did this. I don't think so. I did. Yeah. Yes. Oh man okay. Then I got to go back because would you use Salula quatt you could in a sentence? Then let's go with a man you put me on spot. Let's go. Do you have one answer? Can you help me? Because I did this is just get to where to the day. I know but I got caught because I had a list and I thought to myself I'm like I should be making a list of the words that I use. Okay I'll tell you what I'm going to use I'm going to use in sippin. And I'll tell you why. You feel free to say it. You guys know what I'm going to try it. It's just a boring, not thought out, regurgitated thought. Especially politically when you're arguing online people say things it's like a catch phrase or something that might be cliche. Okay in sippin because I just love it. They're my favorite. Of all the words I have there are most of my adjectives. Anyway in sippin it's basically it's just a bland thought list. It's very close to try it. But it's a bland thought list. You're bringing comment that brings nothing to the it's not imaginative it's not it's nothing. It's just in sippin it really came from food like bland tasting food. You know it was in sippin the meal was in sippin or the soon tasting sippin. And then it went to using it more to explain someone's personality their demeanor or comments that they might make. In sippin. Usually it ascends before we go. Well a comment would be in sippin. It's an adjective so it would be that wasn't in sippin. Yeah yeah yeah yeah that's the bland tasteless and in it's sippin soup. Not very imaginative. Boring. This isn't a sippin podcast. Yeah. Right now. But I'm listening. It's not my try to use the same word again. I did not know. That's what our list they're saying to us. I'm going to make a list to make sure I don't do do that. All right that's I got busted. All right we got a round guys thanks for tuning in and we will be back with more leave us questions for the next episode go to teamskip.com you can reach out to skip there. BodyBerry.com you can reach out to Andrew there. McNally. Dietz at gmail.com you can email me over there and of course truenutrition.com you can get your teams get protein over there as well as the MPA muscle intrusion user code thank for digital saving supplement source.ca great deals for Canadians and thank you to everybody from Patreon guys we'll see you soon.

And back then, the volume and intensity, the idea of the Oscar turned out was absurd. Yeah, they doing three hour workouts. Yeah. And then cardio, you'd get him on the stepman, Oscar would stand next to him on the stepman and control the speed of the stepman while he just suffered. I mean, it was brutal. It's like sending your wife to the mall with your credit card. You know what's going to happen, but it's not going to be good. Yeah, yeah. Hey, everybody. Welcome to It's just bodybuilding reacts. We are rolling fresh. We have no preparation at all. We're going to hop right into reaction video here. Of course, Dusty Han-Shah, Scumming, Naly, myself, big round part. Low, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes. I am mutant.com, good. I am mutant.com, get your ISO surge, get your all in. And everybody get on the gear and remember Dusty 20 big round 20 save yourself 20%. Kai Green overkill. This video, this, this DVD, I should say. This was one of what the final DVDs. This was the tail end of the DVD era. Would you say, guys? It really was. Wasn't it? Yeah. Mike Bolsonaro. Great director, too. Good friend of ours. He did such a tough, hard-pomite. He did such a tough, hard-pomite. He did such an amazing job with the. And so what was the deal here, Ron? Kai in Oscar went out to Vegas for the limpa in Olympia. We were super early, right? Yeah. I remember they, so, you know, I can't remember what year this was. You left to refresh me, Scott. But Kai was looking for the win, obviously. He had already been second to fill, I believe. So he was looking for the win. And so they thought, well, let's go to Vegas early. And we'll do like the full camp there, you know, be at home in the in the suffering and, you know, living out of a hotel room and all that sort of stuff. And I think the plan was that it would make him better. But in hindsight, they just completely burned him out. And he didn't have the best showing. Now, I don't remember where he placed. But I just remember that it was seen as like kind of a let down year for Kai. But this video is hard core. Like he trains hard in this video. Yeah. You know, doing all like, you know, the crazy diet, like hard, hard, you know, 2009. Perfection for the 2009. It says 2010 Arnold champ. And it says, yeah, I think it's a 2009 prep is what this was. Yeah. And I think now, let's see, just like, they're just cooking pounds of white fish in that hotel room and you know that. Yeah. They know they just, you know, that hotel room still smells like fish. To the steak. To the steak. Anybody who hasn't seen it either. This isn't like a nice hotel. No. They were like, they're rocking it like they extended stay basically. So. So he just did. He just did the plate for the hour. That was that four plates or five plates. He just benched got. We were too busy talking. Oh, yeah. He just pulled on there. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So he did five plates. Yeah. I mean, he's just, you know. And back then, like the volume and intensity. Yeah. He was going to turn that was absurd. Yeah. They doing three hour workouts. Yeah. And then cardio. He'd get him on the stepman. Oscar would stand next to him on the stepmill and control the speed of the stepmill while he just suffered. Yeah. I mean, it's, it was brutal. It's like sending your wife to the mall with your credit card. Like you don't know what's going to happen, but it's not going to be good. Yeah. You know. Yeah. This was a really, I, this is Ron. This is another one that we had when I had my stores. So like I literally. No. Oh, you've seen this one next to the count. Yes. Yeah. And it's, it's incredible because like you said, I think it's a lesson for people to learn. You know, guys want to get into prep and they want to just like let them, you know, just let it. It, it, it, it, it run their entire life and there's something to be said about just doing what you need to do in the gym, doing what you need to do with your diet. And then just kind of, you know, like you said, Ron, like let it run in the background. Yeah. Yeah. The fact that they didn't let him escape it and the only thing he was allowed to think about for I think it was six weeks was this ruined him. Yeah. Yeah. Burn the mode. I think he's pulling pull your mic in a little bit. I don't remember what he placed in this. It was probably a horrendous like second through fourth. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I know. Oh, nine was that crazy top six, right? Yeah. So Kai fell the fourth that year. So it was really just going to form right. Ranch was second extra was third and then Kai. Oh, that's right. Phil Heath and fifth. Jay color was still Mr. Olympia. So after the two of the Jay smoked everything. And I think it's smoked everybody. And Oscar tweaked something here because he's literally trying to keep up with Kai green. You know, one of the best athletes in the world and do all the workouts with him. I wonder, I mean, because Oscar was a good bodybuilder in his own day. I wonder how much he, you know, progressed. How much he gained until obviously burnt himself out like this. Yeah. Yeah. I just do like one set of every exercise with him. Just yeah. If I did that, that would still be three of my workouts. It's probably normal body. Yeah. Yeah. I also love Kai's the only one that wears a hoodie. And that's what it looks like. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Those are leggings. Those are regular sweats, too. You know what I mean? Arms like last or something else. Yeah. Ridiculous. Well, Kai's like Kai. Kai was like the first person I saw who had normal gas pants on and they were like super tight. Right. And I was like, those are normal gas pants. I think the big, baggy straight leg ones. And they're just like super tight on. So you know what's funny around the first time that I saw Kai was actually in Germany at McFitt. Oh, yeah. And there's this particular one has stairs where you're going up and down. I'm coming down and he's coming up. Yeah. And it's the first time in my life that a man walked past me and I was like, I can't never been to do this. It's like it's a woman. I stopped and looked. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. To turn, huh? Because I was like, I got to see this again. Like my brain and mind you at this point of my career. Like I've seen everybody. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He was just that freak. And he was completely covered up. And that's what made it so freak is. I was like, you know, I think he was in something kind of like what he's wearing here. Jacket and pant outfit. And I ended up in the pants. And it was like the biggest pair of pants you've ever seen. And they were painted on his quads. And my quads you couldn't tell were in there. When I wore this in pair. Yeah. Yeah. It was really good for my ego for sure. What do you know? I mean, total sets he was doing here. They're in like 30 sets of chest and shit. Yeah. He did that year round. I mean, Ron knows us and we'd be out of town. He would go to the gym. Yeah. And then he would go to warm up for like a time period. You know, 30 minutes plus right. Right. Then go through a full workout. Then do his stretching for an hour. Then do cardio. And then come back. And that was like I remember I came here. What his name was. But you stuff to go with him everywhere. And like he'd say, this is my night. I'll be here for five hours. You're going to have to get you to drive. Kyrown for him. Yeah. And yeah. I remember him telling us about that. And also, Dana and Rob. He was hanging out with Kyle Lot right because they were all, you know, MHP guys like muscle meds under the same banner for a long time. And so they became really good friends. And I remember Dana and Rob expressing many times. They're like, yeah, I mean, you know, we went to the gym with Kai. So, you know, we didn't get back to the hotel till like 2 a.m. Like they would say that like yeah. So, you know, that's just what happens when you go to the gym with Kai. Like that was like a thing everyone would kind of express. If you if you're riding with Kai, it's going to be like three hours at least. Yeah. Back then, tell and maybe four, you know what I mean? And it's just became a thing. Everyone knew. That was because two people asked him one question. So, there's no one. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Just a massive warmed warm-ups. Huge workouts. Tons is stretching just like we were like. Yeah. Yeah. And those pants ridiculous. I wish more people knew how big those pants were to make it. To make it. Because by the way, who doesn't love that time? By the way, those aren't tights. No. Right. Yeah. You should definitely walk this video though. If you have. Oh, yeah. There's so much more to it. Right. He put into this video. Really did bring it to life. I mean, skip to legs. Like skip find the leg workout. Let me see. I think it might be another video. You can stop for that. Please. Yeah. Yeah. You squat real heavy. I can't remember. This looks like it might be some legs. Hold on a sec. Yeah. Ryan Reynolds was a garbage mint mobile. This one actually being the video. But come on. Yeah. All right. I like like like mic's documentary style. Oh, yeah. So much that we are not catching here. Oh, yeah. Find some leg training here though. So this is a great video to watch. That's not that you know, with 2009. So it's not that far removed from now. I mean, you know, it's like 15 years ago, approximately getting there. And you know, with the social media age, I think there's a lot of people now that see this level as like super glamorous. But just go watch this video. There's they're living in like a cheap hotel. Like it's a motel. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's like standing this dump in the foodie's eatin' is just like, you know, those places. What I wish with like green beans on it, like just crazy level of, it's very, very munk like like very ultra sacrifice level sort of stuff that is, you know, like we said, I'm necessary at the end. But makes for an interesting, you know, viewing. And it's like, you know, you know, and living like that. So it's just funny. And it kind of, it's, go ahead. I just, I just get to say it kind of affected the way that like certain vocabulary I might use. Like I might say like, Oh, this last few days, we got to go Oscar ardent level on that, you know, I'm the, you know, I'm the, I'm getting into the show, you know, because they, like Oscar was doing everything. Oscar just had everything in that, like you were saying round. It was just all he had to do was just focus on the body building focus on the body, but you didn't even have to think about the cooking. You didn't even have to think about how many ounces it was. He didn't have to think at all other than the body building and the posing and he spent his time drawing in between. But I go and handle that. You know what I mean? Like just, yeah. Yeah. I'm going to prove that way not to been for the best either. I think it's good to look back at though. The only thing I, I caution you when watching this is, if you're retired from the sport, you probably shouldn't watch it, because it might pull you back in. What do you mean? Because there's something about like nothing, I don't watch motivational things, but this wasn't made to be motivation. It was made to be here's what we are. Yeah. And there's something about anyone who's who's done their best. Obviously, probably no one watching this is ever going to be on his level, but really put everything into something they realize. There is a weird addiction to the body building. And there's something that's going to go far. Like anyone who's done a prep where they did more than they showed up, and I know I have, I've referenced it a million times, my favorite prep because the mental battles and the victories of slain those dragons is just, it's worth it. You know, and it's something you can never replicate in my opinion. Like what he went through here once he retired from competing. Yeah. And actually even when he got, you know, smarter with competing, it's not that you can replicate, but it has an impact on your full career. I mean, when you've done a prep like that, every prep after it feels easy, no matter how hard it is. You know, so I just think it's the part of body building that I like the best. So watching it makes you go, oh, yeah, I should probably turn this off. What's Oscar saying here? Hold on, I rolled past it to get back into the training. Let me roll it back here. Did the quality of competitors coming in here? About much higher than the Arnold. So how do we face new competition or achieve a goal that we never achieved before? But doing things that we had a dummy for, pushing the body harder than we pushed before. So there you have it. It's just all about doing more than they've ever done before that was a mentality of the prep, you know? Definitely worth watching because there's a point in this where he actually does like push too far. I think it might actually be this video or this segment where literally during the workout, they I think Oscar realized we've went too far and he like takes him back to the hotel and he he has him skip cardio for the nice. Yeah, I remember that. Yeah, he definitely was like, oh, so he I think he realized, but it's one of those hindsights where when you look back all the way, you're like, oh man, this was way way too far wasn't that night. Didn't you know, doesn't he's in what happened. I think what happens is he recognized his guys fucked. Websters of F.M. for you. And he, he says, let's skip cardio and then they go back to the hotel and kites and like relaxes and then doesn't kite look at him and say, I can do cardio now. Yep. Yeah, love the time to. Yeah, it's like 11 30 at night. It is. Yeah. Yeah. How about that body master's lake press, too? I want to. I never used that. I missed that journey so much. That gym was awesome. Dungeon gym. So what's he doing all day? I know that's what I'm thinking too. Like how do you get to the gym at 11 30 at night? There it is. This way, certain. Fault part. I remember you catch the breath. When not to a plate, I mean you should get your hands stretched for 50 minutes. When any man, any person, any individual, barks or a journey, you know, in the path of achieving something, but challenges, their best challenges, then in a way to bring forth their best connection with their concentration and most focus. This is what I thought, you know, you end up having to stop and think, why am I doing this? Because at time, it can become overwhelming. None of this is what I expected to see here. Is Vegas Chi's a sanctuary or his prison? There are times when you felt like both. I think the times when they felt more like a prison, when being the times when you might have needed to stop, as they were assessed, you know, who you were and why you're doing this. In fact, you're there in the purpose to exact your will on, you know, a circumstance to bring your will into fruition, you know, to create the reality that you want. So I guess in doing that, in that reasoning you realize, I'm not an president all, you know, and should it start to look like that, you know, may mean that, hey, I need to re-affocus my thinking. Maybe I'm getting away from the right thoughts that keep me grounded in the path of increase. This is a case where even failure is a, oh, yeah, remember they're listening to motivational, yeah, I know, yeah, I know, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I knew that. I knew that. I just done with that workout, like he doesn't need any more motivation. You got to love this, the first react we've done, where we just kind of watched for a little bit and listen because it was that like, well, that was perfect chunk. You don't speak over that. You're going to ruin what they're trying to watch. So yeah, you got to watch this title too. You know, I really can be better titled overkill. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's interesting, you know, looking back on it and also too, a good reminder of like what a freak Kai was. Yeah, those, all those memories, all those memories I have, like, of, you know, think of all the proes of ever seen multiple times in person. Yeah, who always looked crazy. Yeah, you know, Kai's one of the guys that always looked crazy. Did matter what he's wearing, doesn't matter how many layers he had on. He just looks, you're just like, he's Kai, like, you just look crazy. Some of the other guys can hide it, you know, and just it just wasn't hideable, you know, and yeah, I would have freaked. So yeah, good times. Okay, everybody, that's been on it's just body building reacts featuring Kai Green overkill by our good friend Mike Paul Sonnella and, you know, dusty hand shots coming, Ali, remember like share, subscribe, comment, and rootin' that bell. Rain the bell. Train hard as balls. There you go. Remember, I am mutant.com. Dusty 20 big run 20 get your 20% off. Get your isle search, get your all in, and everyone should get on the gear. Okay, thanks everybody. Remember, it's just body building reacts.

See you. You're on the show, Jed. Okay. Welcome to you. It's just body building reacts. There you go. Dusty Han Chas coming now. And myself, Big Brown, part of the Remember Like. Share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. And what are we pulling up, Scott? We've got some Ducks to Jackson. Shoulders and our work there. For the battle for the Olympia, all the way back in 2001. Let's see if I can bring this up. Two thousand one. So like early decks. The long time ago, long time ago. Keybleed. It's over 20 years now. What year did he turn pro 98? So what it was? I'm looking it up right now. I'm just just that number just flew out of my head. I have no idea why. Contest history. Yeah. 98 North American Championships. Light heavyweight and overall. 98. So so this is 2001. So he's only been pro for three years. Got those rims. Let's see. That's the road. That's before he got real money. So yeah. Yeah. That's the mid money. SUV. There we go. Let's see what he has to say here. This is the world famous. Bailey's powerhouse gym. We're going to be shooting another. This is good. We're trying to. Years. Been together about a hundred years. Best training time. Only trainer town. I'm going to try to remember. I remember. But again, the behind the neck. Yeah. The high-end school thing. My cover. I'm going to be a great week. Yeah. And with the visor. Oh. 2001 Rafe culture coach. This. They might think we could be real happy with these ladders. With little swinging there. Did I say a swing, does he? Oh yeah. Doing correct. And standing tall at the top. I also funny my anybody watching this is going to be saying. That's bad for me. He's never going to get good doubts doing that. Yeah. Swing in. So that's how I did my rear-door ladders for like 10 years. Yeah. It's 15 years even. It was just heavy kind of with the swing boom. Yeah. Dexter. It's getting the muscle tech era. Oh yeah. What an era that was. They had like a. They had like a killer team. They really did was was branch Dexter J. Is that like crazy. It was not him. They didn't even have like the the Troy Alves is and the other guy. Yeah. Mixed years well. Yeah. Oh man. I think it's been saying when you looked at him back then. Yeah. Yeah. And that's right. Like. Comparatively he's he wasn't big back then. Yeah. But it's the shape was so bonkers. I mean, I think you got eight at that year's Olympia. And had just turned pro. Would you say around three years before that? Yeah. 98 turn pro and 98. And think about the other guy low to hundreds there. Like yeah. To a six, eleven at tops. You know what I mean? And think about who he'd be competing. Like what were the 2001 guys like the massive. You know. I'm curious about this. Three weeks. Three weeks. He's peeled. He looked like that six months out too. Yeah. He's deleting fried chicken. I think there's some food stuff at the end. We'll be sure to get that in here. Oops. That's right. There we go. So that was shoulders, I guess. And now we're getting into arms. Sholog shots. I'm pulled up here. I haven't done that reverse grip. Press down, table pressed down in a long time. That makes me long for them. Are you still doing single arms? Oh yeah. Yeah. And I hit a point in my life where I couldn't turn my hand over like that. Yeah. That's not good. I hurt. So I just went to a hammer with a rope, you know. Yeah. But yeah. The old reverse grip. How about this for guys that he beat at that size? Nasser? Yeah. Marcus, Marcus, rule, Tom Prince. I mean some absolute monsters. Yeah. I think that's the end, man. It was a big era. Well lines, he's wearing a women's small belt there. For sure. I love you guys back then. He'd be the winningist pro of all time. Yeah. Yeah. He still is, right? Yeah. Yeah. He still is. The winningist pro. Was it 28 pro wins? I don't remember the number. So this is given idea. How is year goes 2001? He got 9th at the previous Olympia. Right. And he winds up moving up to 8th this year. Okay. So he's on the rise. He got third at the Australian fifth at the Arnold third in hunger. He seconded the night at champions. So he's at this point. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Why is that being top 8? So at like what is he way you think? That's what did you say to 20. He's like. He would tell you 50. He probably 25. Yeah. There's no way. Yeah. What's crazy too is the amount of respect that Ducks are has by everybody in the industry. There's nobody who's like, oh, a Ducks are a bad dude or Ducks are Talked crap. Oh, you know what I mean? Ducks are just a good. I'll tell you what. I was lucky enough in 2020 to be backstage at the Arnold. Like literally right next to where all the guys are pumping up. And I'm literally there taking pictures of like Victor Martinez and stuff. All these pumping up. And that was his final show. If you guys remember, he did that posing routine. And it was emotional because it was like his final. His final routine is what he is saying he's going to do. And when he came out of stage the first person standing there when he walked on the steps was a cormere and they just like they looked at each other and they just had this huge freaking hug and Ducks just started bawling. And everybody came around just started putting their arms around him. It was I've got pictures. I'll see if I can find them. I'll drop them up here. But it was really cool, man. So I don't know if people can see that. The camera. But this is what Capitia's list of all this shows he did. Oh, um. Run page two on page three. Page four. The sense saying it just keeps going. Oh, like what? What was his first show? What year was his first show? First show ever was the 1992 Southern States third place light weight. Okay. Light weight. Light weight to Mr. Olympia. How about that? Yeah. And then in 95 he won the light heavy weights at the USA's. But didn't turn pro. Yeah. Yeah. Crazy. That's a wild. That's a wild. That's a wild. Again though. So he turned pro in 98. You said right. Yeah. So that's the thing I think again. We talked about this in the past. Like you don't need to turn pro your first go. Keep advancing. And then even when he turned pro then it was build back up again. And by the way, most of you should not be going to the Japanese statehouse. And I thought you remember the next Jackson. Yeah. Listen in the beginning. Listen in the beginning. Listen a week. I guess. Like coming here. Maybe once it twice. Wait. What should we take this up to about a week? It took twice a week. You'll take it up to October. It took about a week out. You go there. I put it in. I put it in a cookie. We're no sorting around like that. No sorting around. So. Just something more different. Lay right there. I think. Japanese steak and rice. That's a great idea. Yeah. So he can eat it. He competed for 28 years. That is why. First show to Lashar. This is 20 feet. And he was awesome. They were really tired. I think he was incredible. There's so many things about. And like not to just be like, I don't think of the bad stuff. But there's so many things to think. Dexter didn't really ever get hurt. Dexter didn't really. Dexter seems healthy as shit. Dexter looks like a million bucks now. Dexter and Jay. Dexter and Jay like somehow just escaped time. Like we saw Jay. We saw Jay in the UK. We talked to him in Nando's there. You know. We were at the end of the world. You know, we were like, it's been over 25 minutes. Like 25 minutes in Nando's. With him in manager mat and Dave. David Bay and and and Jay, I just keep looking at Jay's face. I'm like, You like. You used to be a few years old. And me and now you look like younger than he is. He's referred to. You know, he's got that that millionaires. steps to the mall. He maybe went to the mall with my twice as thick. Looks real good, you know, and at him in Dexter, both kind of have that that going on. I remember when we saw Dexter and Dubai, Dusty. Yeah, like look, he literally looks, his face looks the same. It's like, literally, he does like literally the same. You're like, how's that possible? Yeah, 10 is physique. It looks, he literally just looks like an athlete now. Still has round muscle. He's just smaller. It's, yeah, for most of us when you get smaller, then all of it kind of just goes. Like you're just a flatter and dude. Yeah. He looks like he's on 10. I use a growth still and just bubbling out of his mind. You know, the biceps are still like just bursting out of the tendon. Like when he moves arms when he's talking, he's just talking to you like this. And you see the biceps just like, probably only 17 now, you know, like. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then at the opposite of the spectrum, there were guys that just came and went and came and went. I mean, how many, how many evolutions of bodybuilding did he make it through 28 years of competing? You know, that's, I mean, that's a lot. He was, so he was bodybuilding. He was working out in the gym when Leigh Hayney was Mr. Olympia. Yeah. And then he competed with Ronnie Coleman and competed with Phil Heath and competed with Shawn. And competed with Randy. Yeah. Literally all of them. That's bonkers. You know, the amount of guys who won the Olympia in a time period where only one guy was winning for nearly a decade is pretty not including himself. Yeah. And he was always in the mix. Everyone always knew that any show, Daxter did, he could win. So just saying, he saw Ronnie's entire reign as a country. And then he saw Jay's entire reign as a competitor. And then he saw Jay's entire reign as a competitor. Be the ones. Yep. And then he saw Phil Heath's seven in a row as a competitor. Keep going. Keep going. Like you're on stage for every one of those shows. He was in every one of those shows. Wasn't he every single one I bet? Yeah. Just putting my, you know, my, my favorite action. Was when they, when they did the, when they had triple H at the Olympia like backstage. Oh, chalk didn't do the wrestling thing. Yeah. And they just, they trying to chat him up and he, he comes up to Daxter backstage. You goes, all right, Daxter. I mean, obviously, you know, how do you think you're going to do this weekend? And Daxter's like, I brought it, man. He goes, all I'm saying is I'm getting second triple H goes second. He goes, come on, man. That's Ronnie Coleman. I didn't even, it wasn't even an option. Like second was winning for everyone else. Yeah. Yeah. There's two, two quotes I love. Two stories that Daxter, I love the one is I set it before it's on one of the videos where he's training. And I, I think it might have even been 2008, which is a year he won the Olympia. So that's what makes it stick out of my mind. And he's training and he's got his elbows wrapped because he's saying how his elbows have started hurting a little. So he's like, I'm just wrapping him for a few weeks. I get through the prep and and he's just talking about how he's he goes. I made a whole career on catching people when they're off. Yeah. That's my thing. I play my game. I play my game. And if the other guys don't play their game properly, I got him. Yeah. And then he looks at the camera. He goes, there ain't no runaways. They say at the Ronnie Coleman days. And I was like, oh damn, he's playing a win. Now that Ronnie's gone. He's, you know what I mean? That's a dangerous guy. That's a dangerous guy. Yeah. And then the other story I love with Daxter is he shows up at the Olympia one day and he's walking back stage. It was a 2003. The year Ronnie was, I'm not. Unbelievable crazy. And he's walks back stage. Just guys Jim bags in like he's, you know, he's there. Everyone, all the guys are buzzing around, you know. And he comes around the corner and Jason on a chair and he goes, Jay, what's up my man and Jay just except, but just except that. And he goes, did you see Ronnie? There he goes. And now, any goes, huh? Like that. Just like, yeah, Ronnie had to shirt off already. Oh, oh. Yeah. Yeah. And body won that show immediately backstage. Everyone was like, wow. Did you see Ronnie? Yeah. But it's almost going to be a relief back then when Jay was chasing because it was like, well, we don't have to wonder if I'm going to beat him this year. I just saw him. Right. Right. Oh, man. Okay. Well, good memories. Good guy too. Everyone loves Daxter. You know what I mean? I mean, we've all heard some stories about everybody. You know, there's always a story about everybody. People on bad days, you know, but I just haven't heard about story about decks. You know, he's just one of those guys. You know, he gets those pro athletes that plan NFL for 20 years. They don't go to rehab. They don't have a bad divorce. They don't have like, I just saw charge in a bar in Texas. They don't get arrested at the border with weed in their bag. They don't like just nothing happens. They just compete for 20 years. Collect the paycheck retired. Yeah. Maybe they got it man, you know, decks and they get one super bull ring out of the whole thing. Maybe, and it's just awesome. You know, and that's kind of what Daxter did. He's just one of those guys loaded up the bank account along the way. You know, he's really got that muscle. That muscle tech year. Yeah. That's so muscle. You know, even the way to show at that point, right? You get that, that you get the muscle tech money invested properly. And then the rest of your career. It's just gravy. Yeah. So okay. Remember everybody like share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Ring the bell. I am mutant.com. Get your ISO search, get your all in and everyone should get on the gear. Dusty 20, big Ron 20, get your 20% off. Think big Patreon for the last five minute crew. Thank you. Scott's a producer, home. And remember everybody is just body building. Reacts. I thought you're going to get to say the reaction. It was just a dramatic delivery.

I think that I've always appreciated about you, Scott, is that your goal hasn't been to tell people things are black and white, more or less though you're exposing the shades of grace so that we can think for ourselves. And that's what we really need to do, is we need to spend more time thinking for ourselves than, you know, I don't know who's saying that out there, but I can just picture somebody on a 30-second Instagram reel saying that, you know, rat studies are useless. And then from there, a thousand people just repeat that and repeat that and repeat that. Let's look at it today. What are the benefits? But then at the same time, what are the drop-acts, too? What's up, guys? Welcome back to Muscle Mines with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McDally. Welcome to the new year. This is our first episode of Muscle Mines this year. I'm excited to get this thing rolling back in the past, like last year. It was actually the last episode of a week or so ago. We talked about potential benefits of melatonin and there was a lot of really cool stuff with that. And I heard something, I heard some feedback from two people. And it's something that I had heard before. It was said, rat studies don't mean anything. Rat studies are garbage. You know, they don't, they don't mean anything. I thought to myself, I don't think that they're complete garbage. I understand they aren't identical to a human study. But that said, Scott and I have been talking about it. We thought this would be a really good topic in itself. Who better to explain this than Scott Stevenson? What's up, man? One last year. This is one of those things. I kind of had to make it called the beginning. I think you could go help. You could cheat. I was telling Ectionick Ware. I think that's why I mentioned this, too. Maybe it was you. You could teach an entire graduate class on this topic. Okay. Like, it's an important topic. For instance, in my academic career, when I was going through West Star Rock doing animal work. So I did for year and a half, two years almost. I did research with rats. And by one of the work with you, I put too much of an animal over it. I just, I just couldn't even myself to, because the news animal sometimes inadvertently, and then they have to sacrifice at the end of the country. I mean, it's just, for sure. I could do. But, but you see, especially in the exercise science world, there are many, many departments where you have individuals who are like you've been the same department. You've got basically colleagues, function on the same level, animal research, right research. It was literally that way. University of Texas. Yeah. A university of Georgia. There wasn't anyone doing any animal research, but it Texas, there certainly was. I was in getting Roger Ferris, lab. This is your, this giant ID. People might know about John. He wrote one of the first carbohydrate timing or the nutrient timing books. Years ago, he's now retired. Professor Meredith said University of Texas at Austin. Great guy. He was the second on my master's thesis. He did both animal research and rat recently rat rat's in mice, depending on which model may be the most sensitive. And humans. And there was another guy who, um, by the doctor's, starins, he just did all rat stuff. Basically, with hearts. So, but there's, there's something to that. So you see this and the question that's important to understand are what are the limitations of positive advantages. You could literally do an entire class. This topic comes up over and over again, but the bottom thing I'm going to kind of go into is sort of help folks who haven't, don't have research training, haven't done research, haven't been in that kind of situation. Help them a little bit kind of contextualize that there is a reason why for for centuries, there have been literally millions of researchers who've used animal models for various reasons to study various phenomena in mammals. And then use that as a step to understanding what happens in humans. There's just some stuff you can't do in rats. So to make the statement, once they've been talking to someone else, once they've been in the diet, I thought it was rashed on a pair over to humans. It was just simply that. For a very sort of blanket statement. And it's kind of like, it's kind of like saying, ah, you know, in nowadays, if you only want to get somewhere, um, more quickly, you would have an automobile, or some sort of motorized means of transportation. And it's like saying bicycles are worthless. There's no need whatsoever to ever have a bicycle. There's no purpose whatsoever. Like, what if you want exercise? If you're just going a short way, people use bicycles all over the world in other countries, in other cultures, right? Where they're don't have to go very far. There are people like even in like the big cities, people, there's people who deliver stuff on bicycles. And you can get there faster, right? Because of traffic and stuff. So to say like bicycles are useless, because you don't have a use for bicycle, or, you know, CAs for bicycles. It's like, it's a little too much of a black and white statement. Very few things, especially science, your black and white. You know, it's kind of, it's kind of, it's something you've, you stroke a stroke, a chord with me too. I feel like that's something I see in our society in general right now is a lot of real black and white thinking that, you know, politically, you're either with us, or you're against us, you're either pro this or you're anti that. You know, it's like, and the same thing carries over to bodybuilding that, you know, we've talked a hundred times on drugs and stuff that, you know, there was a time that we wanted to just like absolutely annihilate estrogen. All estrogen was bad. And now everybody's saying like, no, leave estrogen. You need it. It's good, but it's good with an reason. I think that I, I've always appreciated about you, Scott, is that your goal hasn't been to tell people things are black and white more or less, though, you're exposing the shades of grace so that we can think for ourselves. And that's what we really need to do is we need to spend more time thinking for ourselves than, you know, I don't know who's saying that out there, but I can just picture somebody on a, on a 30-second Instagram real saying that, you know, rat studies are useless. And then from there, a thousand people just repeat that and repeat that and repeat that. Let's look at it today. What are the benefits, but then at the same time, what are the drawbacks, too? Yeah. And the thing that it's, it is convenient, it's easier just to compartmentalize things and say it's this or that. Yeah. You go in there's just two boxes, there's no inter, intermediate potential forms of utility for rat studies, what's there? And that's nice because you don't have to think then, you don't have to, you don't have to contextualize, you don't have to see the nuances, you don't have to see the shades of grace. So it's helpful, it's just a normal human instinct to do that to the extent possible, but then you're overshooting the mark if you just do that all the time. Yeah. You just miss so many beautiful nuances of life, I think. So should I bring this up? So that's what? Yeah, let's bring it up. I'm going to pull it up on my end. Sorry if I'm looking up and down because I've got two, that's all right. He's green going here. We've got a lot of happened. You think I'll be all right over here in the corner if you look at us, how I have this set up? Yeah. You think it would be okay over here? Yeah, we may have to move it now again. Okay. Well, I'll start us out there then and I'm going to go ahead and actually I don't even really need to, I can just go like this. Boom, there we go. Yeah, there we go. So again, sorry, it's just like the last one I sort of whip this together. This isn't going to do with my seminars and they're paid on location, what have you order, the webinars that I do. I run through them, literally I haven't even talked through these slides. So there's probably type of those and stuff, so I apologize for that. But I just can't even put the topic. I've actually, I've got it and I'll show people how to find it, but I wrote an article like almost 10 years ago now on this topic for John Meadows site, are you a man or a mouse and it's about animal models of muscle growth. So I want to sort of focus on that because it's just one sort of sliver of research where you can see, okay, are these studies in this area and this arena are they relevant at all? What do they tell us? We could talk about this. You can ask any questions or want to go along stack because if we could talk about each of these slides kind of forever. Right. So this was, um, here's a study, let's see. Let's check. All right, we'll have to use. There we go. Okay. All right. So this is a review article that came out not too long ago. I mean, there are a couple of figures I stole. Just to look at the number of research experiments that are done with animals and the table on the left is the number of antipers, seizures and great Britain in 2018. Okay. And so if you look at, look along the species column there, the left, mice, fish, rats, birds, other mammals, reptiles, all of a while. A total just in great Britain in 2018 of experimental procedures, 1.8 million. Right. So the reason I bring up these numbers is to say, these are just experimental procedures. There's other other procedures that were done that weren't even even experimental. It's just basically developing the models, things that had to be done which you would require approval for. The reason that I mentioned this is that just making absolute statement like animal risk, like there's no value that animal research has carried humans is like, so why are we, what are we making like three and a half million mistakes in a year and just and just it's just great Britain, right? Okay. Yeah. So yeah. And it's a massive number of, we used a lot of rats, rats and mice, rodents are seen off the necksurcized physiology. Mice is used a lot because they're really, really small. You don't have to feed them a whole lot. Of course you can, you can make transgenic mice, you can bring in 100 mice. And they're really eat, they don't eat quite as much space. So really, they're really, you don't have to like, unlike a fish, they don't have to be in the water, what have you. So it's a really efficient and convenient way of having subjects all kind of grouped together. So here is another on the, here. On the right is another reporting in the, the USDA from 2008, 2017 of animal usage in research studies. Same kind of thing we're seeing like a million studies here in 2008, we'll be less actually on research kind of going down, which doesn't, that doesn't bother me one bit. It just means we're probably getting, probably better it, certainly when we can do animal research when not the high point in 2010. But we're talking about millions of studies that are going on each year in all these various species. They use cats and dogs which I hate to see. Well, now that was one of the things that really got me on some Texas, I go to the animal research center there. They are, they call it, like Noah's Arch, see the hogsron there. That was just like this to hurt me. So yeah, it's a big, it's a big deal. So I'm not like, I'm a big, I'm a big proponent of minimizing animal research that's not possible, but it does have its utility. So, so this is the next slide, get into the, right, remember some of the, or a bodybuilding related stuff, come for the, my screen there. So this is, um, here's an animal model, some exercise or just an animal mode. We're kind of, I just kind of threw all these together, so sorry for the kind of lack of organization. So in the upper right, I've got a, I took from a paper from 2019, a rat running behavior scoring system. So this is a thing that's interesting about rodents, it's a limitation, but it's worth knowing this happens. I know in running this also happens in swimming when they do swimming models with rodents. It's, it's a, it's literally, potentially a limiting factor, and it's a limitation, and maybe even a, a deficiency in this type of research, is that you can only train the animals that want to run. So you can score some animals, and this is even animals that, that, these that come from the same litter of rodents, let's say, some of them want to run and some don't. And the way they're, the rodents, training happens typically the treadmill, it's got a shock rate at the one end. So you put them on the treadmill, and they quickly learn that if they don't run, they will get shocked. Some animals just would rather be shocked. So they'd literally just say, I'm not running, they just go and they jump on the, on the chakra and they just, no kidding. And you try to, and train them, not to do that, but some of them will just want to do this. So you can see like there's a non-runner, they'll refuse to run, they freeze the treadmill or they're on the chakra, and we're using the bottom here of, of scored number five, and they get removed from the study. Okay. With swimming, sometimes you put, so you put animals in like a big, like a barrel, a big pale, and some rodents will swim around, that's the idea, is it kind of doggy paddle the way around, and those are good swimmers. And some of them will figure out their life because, of course, they're scared of either human on the surface, it's just like a frog would, you know, a frog or something in a, some amphibian, you come up to them and they die, Bob, and they go under, right? Well, rats will do that, some rats will do that, and they'll like, let just go to the bottom of the, bottom of the barrel, and they'll just sit, hold their breath as long as they can, and they come back up the surface, and they'll take some rest, and they'll say, oh, they're you're again, and shit, and they just, so they go down, they swim down the bottom, and they just sit there, right? So they're not swimming, I mean, that's, that's a stress, but it's not a swimming stress, it's not an exercise stress that we're looking for to stress on the car, you've asked your system, et cetera, et cetera, so those are the non-swimmers. So that's, for instance, something that happens is running, it happens in some of these other studies, in various degrees, but like, it's like the one just below the right there, there's a wrath cat press, yes, that's the rest, that's pretty, it's disjuring, yeah, there's been a couple of these, sometimes they can load weights on rats and train them to climb ladders, so literally climbing up ladders with loaded best on, and this one you can see there's, and I can't probably see, I think, I can do this here. That's my little, and you can see there's a little ring that goes around his neck, and this is a feeding tube, there's a food pellets in there. So he has to stand up and extend his legs, which trains the plantar flexures, the calves, and they have a little weight connected to this ring around his neck, so the his shoulders brush on that, so it's kind of like he's doing a cap, standing cap press, but to wait on his shoulders, and that weight loads him, so you can progress it over, loving this weight, so they get their feeding only if they, this is the ultimate like food reward, right? Yeah, they have to train themselves, they have to, they have to produce effort, and you can train that way, whether with a food reward. Yeah, here's a system with rodents that is interesting, I used the stimulation, I actually developed this system when I was in Texas, I broke the software, really, created the apparatus using a solenoid, yeah, I didn't actually had to figure it out off from scratch, and we would do, we did something with a different, we actually inclined to the headgear here and ran a wire down to the tubular nerve, and then you strap the animals foot to do a unilateral fat press on this kind of pulley system, so that they planar flex, this thing rotates, and that this stuff this weight, and that loads the cast, and you can do progressive orcolo. This was, we talked about this on a previous podcast, they've just maybe in one of those 100 to 100 to choose a, we did, podcast that is what we're knowing, yeah. We've talked about it more than just that one time, but I had never seen the picture, the little diagram until right now. Yeah, yeah, so it's a cool, cool model, mine was a little, little different, but it's based on this, the cool thing when you activate with this, look, East End, literally, so the animals were net-sized there unconscious, when they're getting when they're doing their training. So you just use East End, you turn on the tubular nerve that turns on both the anterior tubular, as well as all the plantar flexors, the gastric name is, the solace and the plantar. So you're all those muscles get trained, and they lift and lower the load, right? Not so much long, it's mainly concentric, which has turned it on, they do the plantar flexion, the turn-off, and then just comes back. What happens because all those plantar flexors are stronger than the anterior tubular, and the front, that muscle gets turned on, the anterior tub, and undergoes an eccentric contraction. Yeah, okay, so those, because it just gets stretched while it's contracting, and you get massive, you get increased protein synthesis there, you get massive growth that way too. So it's just another animal model that's interesting. Here's some, kind of the point here to keep in mind, there are reason why these things are were done, and they have been done. And here's another cool one people talk about the possibility of hyperplasia. So here's the closest thing this is a training study, there was done with cats, Bill Ganyan, and Jose Antonio did this. Jose Antonio still active, people who know Iasus and Jose, he kind of runs a show over there, and he's written some cool stuff on, actually changing the shape of muscle and the really core of hyperplasia, which most probably happens in humans, but the problem with, of course, trying to figure that out in humans is you can't get probably ethically at least take out a muscle and count the fibers, which is something you could do ethically so to speak, in cats, or in rats, or in, way to. So in this particular study, they train these cats to do risk flexion against the loads, and there's a, there's a, a pulley system here, you can see the loads over here. So they would do a risk flexion against this pulley system for a food reward. And this case, they found after a year of training music, a 9% increase in fiber number, and the flexure carburetor, it's also one of the risk flexure muscles in the forearm. The other study, and this is, this is one that people talk Dante, Trudel talked a bit, this is the stretch overload model with quail, and this particular way they did it, Ganyan a lot of these, they put this cuff around the wing, and so on, that's covered up, but they, this is a weighted cuff, so they can increase the weight on this cuff, and this pulls the wing down. I always talked about the equivalent of human would be like holding a heavy dumbbell extracting a dumbbell to your hand, it's your holding at a 40, 50, 60 pound dumbbell all day long, and it's holding your arm down, and they measure the anterior with this historic thigh muscle, but it basically basically equivalent to looking at the upper part of the trap, right? Yeah, see how much your traps grow. And that's the study, Jose, that he'd have progressive overload study given the animals a break in between days when they would progressive the ad weight, and he saw like, it was like a 300% increase in muscle mass in the course of one month. Yeah, and increase in number of fiber, and this is this cool study, where the fibers, the initially the increase in muscle mass, so they had groups of cohorts of animals, things we can't do in humans. So the first group got trained for a week, and they looked at the muscles, what happened to the weight of that muscle is the fiber sizes, and then they'd let the next group was trevit trained two weeks, that's when they ended their training, so to speak, and then went to three weeks and four weeks, so they could see it was happening to both the muscle weight over time, and the fiber size over time. And the muscle weight, so the muscle mass kept on growing over the course of the month. The fiber size initially was what we were producing that growths, growth, and then later on, and the latter half of the study, the fiber started getting smaller. And this is what you see in some human studies, where you have humans that are body builders, that have large muscles, but they have normal fiber sizes, which probably reflects what we saw happening in this animal study, which you can't do that in humans, just let's take the humans, and like you're going to train your triceps, let's say, and who wants to be the, you're going to get randomly assigned to the group who loses his triceps after one month of training. So you can count the fibers and chest muscles just doesn't happen, but this stuff that animal models will allow us to do, and it's important, I think, to recognize this gives us insight, is what might be going on, it gives us some evidence to support the assertion that when we see large muscles in bodybuilders of a training for years, who have normally sized fibers, that probably has to do with what we saw in this quail study, the muscle kept on growing, but the fibers got bigger and then got smaller, so there's more fibers. You can't have fibers at a getting smaller and the muscles getting bigger unless the number of fibers is getting bigger. Yeah, right? And there wasn't water, it wasn't swelling, that sort of thing, that actually goes down after the first little while for training, or the stimulus. So it tells us that that's an adaptation, and I explain this in previous podcast, that would make kind of make sense, and we think about what muscle has to do energetically when it's undergoing like a high volume resistance training session, which is kind of like, but this is a 24-7 stress from experts, constant being stressed. So that's this quail study, and that you see massive, massive growth here. It's way beyond what we could whatever doing a human, but we see a phenomenon there that matches what we see in cross-sectional studies with humans, bodybuilders with big muscles and ever-sized fibers versus untrained people who have smaller muscles, but the same size fibers. Bodybuilders probably didn't start off with really small fibers and they spent 10 years training to make their muscles larger than average by like 50 percent, and their fibers average size probably got some muscle growth in the fibers, some hypertrophy, technically speaking, in the fibers, the fibers grew, and then over the course of time, the continued growth they got was likely due to hyperplasia. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah, so this last one here is a compensatory hypertrophy, synergistic ablation they call it too. So here we got gastrochneemius, the solace, and the plantyrus, so humans have a plantyrus, not everyone does, but it's a really small, if you do, sometimes people have them on legnarum, the other. But the main cap also the gastrochneus solace, but in rats we got this plantyrus, so you can take out the gastrochneem leaves the solace and plantyrus and left over, or you can take both the solace and gastrochneum often, just take the plantyrus. Interesting, but the plantyrus is a mix muscle fiber type, so you can look at the importance of the differences in terms of fiber type on the growth response. The solace is like in a rat, 90 percent type one, hardly a muscle in humans that's really, there will be individuals who are very endurance, they're gifted for endurance, running, you'll see this, typically those biopsies are taken after also been doing endurance training for a long time, but having more type one fibers is going to give you a greater propensity for being good in endurance type training, but in rodents we see this, especially in rats, that the gastrochneus, there's two heads of the gastrochneum, they differ a little bit in terms of their fiber type or sandwich. Red versus white comes from whole notice and background information, so people talk still about red versus white fibers, or red muscle versus white muscle, well the solace is a very red muscle because it's got like lots of myeloat, woven in it, it's got a lot of capillaries, so it's going to be a lot of blood, you can take that muscle out and look at it. Whereas you've actually got a white and a red gastrochneem, yes, you can see visibly when you strip away the skin, you look at those muscles, the two heads of that muscle on the rat, one is white and one is red, it's kind of pinkish and a more whitish color. So that's where that normal cleavage becomes from originally, what's from the rodent research before you can take the whole muscle out of the human, when a rat you can, you can take it out and weigh it, you know, and you can add a lot of count the number of fibers to look at the possibility of high-to-plasia. Yeah, and you've got these kind of cool situations where you've got almost all of one fiber type so you can see how things differ there. You had a question, I think you're going to say something to you and you're out of it. No? No? Okay, I said, yeah, so this is, I was just kind of listening along. Yeah, so this is a chart from a nicer view, it's a bit old, but these models have been used, like this is the 1990 when this publication came out. So, we're in 30 years ago and these models have been used for decades before that. Yeah, so they kind of compared strength training versus this stretch hypertrophy, which is the rate of quails to compensatory, hypertrophy, or synergistic relation, to exercise induced models like this or this one. This one's a little bit different because these aren't voluntary contractions. And you see in terms of the, they call, they call the response to geography here, that you see the same sort of adaptations in these animal models. In terms of fiber type changes, in terms of the relative amount of growth that you see in humans. So you're getting, you're getting a similar type of effect. You're not seeing the animals, like, or they're getting like two or three times the muscle growth when they're undergoing a seen kind of stimulus. The thing that's interesting is that you can't really do stretch hypertrophy in humans. And when compensatory hypertrophy is compared to exercise in humans, it's, you get a more much more robust growth response. It's pretty tremendous. So 5,200 percent increase in muscle arm, but the muscle mass just weighing the left muscle during this case. So, except there's a nipped a little study that I, and I know I mentioned here a couple of times I think is really cool. So at this point, we didn't know we didn't have anything to, that was comparable in humans in terms of compensatory hypertrophy. So this, of course, again, you're taking out the gastroch, or the end of the solace, and looking at what's left, and looking at the extent of growth, you get those muscles. About a 50 to 100 percent growth over the course of months, right? And pretty much after three or four months, you're getting things to plateau it off. And what's worth knowing how I'm going to mention this? What happens in these animals? They cut, they cut the insertion connections here so they cut the killies ten hundred, or the large part of it, it connects these two muscle, muscle heads to the killies ten ten. And then the animals recover from Q days, and then they just walk around and they regain normal locomotion. So their activity becomes the same. So the overload isn't from lifting, it's from walking around all the time. And they just have much less muscle mass, but they're you, but they have an adaptation, the compensates for the missing muscle mass, and they get hypertrophy, they get muscle growth. And you actually get some hyproplasia there, but they just call it an extra hypertrophy. So, so we've got this very cool study that I found a couple years ago, so excited when I found this. So again, the remaining muscle grows fifty to hundred percent when you do this compensates for hypertrophy, which you're not going to do, you're not going to cut muscles of humans and see what happens. They're remaining muscle, like touch a gas track, see how much your soul is grows. But people sometimes have a killies ten ten ruptures. Yeah, they do. And one way that you can repair that is to take the flexor who loses longest muscle. So that's the muscle that flexes your toe. So it's a little bit any, like normally a little, it would be a muscle here. It's not very big. It comes under your medium-alolus here and goes down so to your big toe. You're kidding me. Like your big toe. Yeah. I never knew that. It was just fascinating that it has that level of circuitry that runs down. I've heard that the foot is the most complex. One of the most complex parts of the body. The hand is even more complex, but yeah. So it's important. A lot of the powers that all across the ball of your foot, so this muscle is here to keep your big toe here, your halix, it loses longest returns. This is just the, there's the hulusus, brevus muscle too. So this is the long and the muscle. So what they do then, in the case where your Achilles or this muscle has been, where your Achilles has been torn through an accident, right? Is they basically, they kind of sewed the two, this end, tend in together. And then they attach the normal attachment here and the hulusus longus and then they attach that at the Achilles. So basically, what we have is this small muscle that has to take over for this muscle mass, which is now not connected. It is sort of partially. But we've got a very, very similar situation to when you've done the clipping here, experimentally, because here we have situation where there was a, there was an injury. So now we got a ton of overload on this flexor hulusus longus muscle. And in this particular study, this is just a follow-up study. And what they did is they compared the good leg. So there's no people didn't have, they didn't have bilateral Achilles tears, which is one side. So they compared the good leg and they're walking basically normally. They did some muscle strength tests as well, kind of bypassed that those Gitos aren't really important for this talk. But they found on average when they compared the good, the normal size, flexor, lusus longus, that it's normal size, with the one that it had been used to compensate for the torn Achilles, about a 52% increase in muscle size. And the max was 104%. And here's an MRI showing this, and I circle this already. So here's the good side flexus longus. And here, this is a really shoddy, certainly. But this is how they do this. I did this for my dissertation. You do a circle, the muscle. The computer helped you make a better circle in process. So this was a doubling over a little bit over 100% increase in flexor. So that suggests very briefly that this, at least this model of compensatory hypertrophy in rodents where we get about 50 to 100%. We've got the same response toography as chimpson refer to it. In humans, when we have a similar situation, where we have one muscle that has to take over and compensate for missing muscle mass otherwise. Now let me ask you a question. Now did we do the rat studies first in that informed us to say, hey, we may be able to do this in humans. Do you know if that's, I would have to think that there was some, you know, that didn't just come up with that one day and say, hey, let's give this a try. I guess Mike, that's my question. Is this based off of having no and through studies and animals that this could be something that could benefit us? Yeah, well in the animals, they just cut the muscles. They don't do any, any tendon transfer. Okay, so this is a tendon transfer procedure that, you know, that that surgeons figured out and probably could go and look, I haven't looked in that literature, go and look and see, I'm just wondering. Yeah, I'm wondering if animal studies had informed us in under, I'm just trying to see, you know, we have animal studies benefited us, had they benefited in this case? I see what you're showing us, though, you're basically showing us that this is something that had occurred a similar type thing was done in animals and we got a similar result in humans is what your telling me. That's a really good question because I think, imagine this. Imagine we do this, we attempt, we know as we call it compensatory, perfectly because there is a compensation. But imagine there was no compensation. Imagine we just, what happened was the animals were just, they were just permanently debilitated, right? And they never recovered. They never, they were normal gate was never restored and you didn't see any growth in the remaining muscles. See, cut the gastroccane. These are the soleis can plant, interest can ever take over that never grows again, or you can try cutting the soil. Like no combination, you see any compensation in terms of muscle growth to make up for the muscle that's been, for the tonotomy is occurred with the tenants being cut. Then I almost 100% positive that the smart researchers, because we pay attention to the land of literature, right? They would have said, well, that's probably would probably be a silly thing to try in humans because the animal research suggests there's no compensation. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. This tended to transfer and hope that the flue, that flexes along with the grow, which it does. But the animal research says that the rodents and rodents are, they're generally they're hardier than human, right? That's kind of the concern is that they can handle shift that we can handle. And that's probably true in some cases. They're just kind of seen, they're just a general observation. They're just pretty hardy. They do stuff. Some of it's, I don't even say what it is, because it's kind of, but animals do things that, you know, like what's the movie Scott, where these guys, like they're on a, on some sort of a flight over Antarctica or and the flight, the, and the, the plane goes down and they end up like becoming cannibals. Oh, I know you're talking about. Was like the soccer team or something? Yeah, something like that. So they're like holy shit. Like people are, animals do that kind of stuff. They add that, they add that. They're people of that. Yeah. They adapt. Like, and they're, they're way, willing to do things that we think of as very animalistic. It's kind of, it turns out, yeah. So they're really frigging hardy. So people, if research had shown that animals being resilient as they are as hardy as they are, they didn't have compensation to this type of, of attempts. And I'm guessing the surgeons would have thought, you know, you could, you have to get these things approved initially in some way, shape, or form. Those research that usually has happened before. Unless there was some rogue surgeon, you know, again, I haven't looked into this, into the origin story of trend and transfers, to see what they, what they did, especially in terms of this. This is different than for instance, the trend of transfer in the hand. Okay. Because the do hand, hand, trend of transfers too. The people who've had injuries from car wrecks are what have you. This one's a continuous loading. So if, you know, if you're going to try to justify this thing and you say, we know that when you do, with the compensating, a purchasing model that animals do compensate with when their muscle mass is missing, blah, blah, blah, that gives us reason to believe that there's, there's potential for success in these individuals. If we try this particular trend of transfer, I think I was getting ready to mention is this flexor loses long and longest tendon. It doesn't have to be transplanted very far. It's very close proximity to where the tendon is cut or which has been disrupted by the injury is. So it's the, it's kind of the logical one to choose because of that. Yeah, so yeah, this, so this is really, I'm very, I'm very, I'm so glad you asked this because the animal research informs us that we have some potential success to be had here in trying this tendon transfer procedure, which is now done. There was like eight or ten subjects to speak. This is, this is just sort of a cross-sectional case report basically. Yeah. But yeah, if the animal research suggests that the muscle just doesn't have the plasticity, which we now know it does, and you couldn't have convinced of human subjects committee that this is a viable study to do because they say, no, you're not going to do that. Like you've been making sufferers through the study and then their muscles never going to recover and they're just going to be, you're just going to put them to a unnecessary pain and sufferer. Yeah, I just figured out to ask that, but yeah, what else we got to hear? We're questions. I'm excited to see where we go with this next. Yeah, okay, so this is from what I put this together for this article, wrote for John Meadowside. So people can find this, if they go on there and just look at my name, they can. So if we look at animals versus human, so with this and sort of a scale of changes in muscle size, kind of here's our baseline, you can go after-feed, there's various muscles there. I think this is just muscles of muscle growth, you're wanting to, there's muscles of after-feed that humans and animals have, and those are comparable to. And then if we look at what happens in terms of muscle growth on a scale of like 50 to 200, and this would be actually 200 plus percent, we had more than 200 percent in that one study that Jose Antonio did. Okay. We've got sort of this, the scale where body-building training gives us slow gains, and if you look at someone who starts off at 160 pounds and they make it to 260 or something like that, they may have doubled their muscle mass, right? Yeah. We're in this 50 to 100 percent range of commenced or higher perky, with animals, right? Resistance training with animals matches what we see with humans, right? Resistance training in the short-term matches the rate of growth and seeing humans. We've gotten out of this cool case study with the tendon transfer, where the compensator or higher perky, basically what that was, in animals was equivalent to what you see in humans, 50 to 100 percent, the numbers matched really, really well. And of course, there's various things that play a role here, and this is important to substance diet, training, and lifestyle, and genetics, I should have probably written this in here, add this genetics to you, so I want to make this point too. It's really good. It looks like a challenge, just scribble with crayon. It wasn't going to say anything. That's okay. Let's go to the TV channel. You get credit for trying. Hey, that's not bad. That's, you know, it's both the mouse. This happens when you do electronic zoom into your signing and only, oh, God, yeah. It looks like it's always, it's redo. Reduce, redo, redo. How can you count on you? I guess it's good enough. So in an e-slim training, you can do e-slim training with animals and humans. I did this actually for my, for my dissertation, we train humans with electroslimulation, at least in the short-term, like an eight-week window. You get about double the rate of muscle growth when you train with e-slim. And you get, yeah, with an isocunetic device, because you, you producing a contraction in a way that your nervous system can. You're overwriting the normal neural inhibition during eccentric contractions. And when you're in an isocunetic machine, the muscle forces that eccentric connection, contraction at whatever speed you set up to do that. Yeah. And there's no inhibition to reduce the force, the amount of muscle that's activated. So the forces are just sky high. Beyond, it can be, to mount how much stimulus, how much juice you have from another machine, it can be harder than what you can physically produce, voluntarily, with a maximum voluntary effort. And you're using less muscle to do that, because you're not fully, turning on the muscle with all the stem, you could probably would end up injuring someone if you tried to do that. I've never gone that or even with myself, it went now that's not smart. That's why the nervous system has this built in inhibition anyway. But you can probably, you can get more that way. And this is what, or what's they in the device, a lot of people were using, especially a couple of years ago. The Dexter Jackson used it. Oh, the new finishing. The new V-machine. Yeah. So that's one form of the stem training people have been adding. You get a different, you get a non-physiological, east-lim contraction pattern that's going to favor activation of motor units during the eccentric that you might not normally activate. Maybe at all, with a given free weight. And you create more, mass amount of muscle damage if you do this without having familiar eyes, the muscle to that, so you get a sort of repeated about effect, you can really destroy the muscle with east and really damaging. That tells you how novel and powerful the stimulus is. So east-lim training, for this, a whole other topic we're flowing into. But the main point here is that animals, this animal research, all this stuff matches really what we have our response to poverty. That's really, really similar to humans. So there is something to say there they're using animals where you can take out the whole muscle and you can count the fibers and you can do things that you just can't do in humans. Yeah. And there's other advantages there too, which I'll talk about a bit too. So more on animal models, people want to read this, are you a man or a mouse, this article that I wrote back in 2013 for John, and this is where this figure comes from. Great size. Yeah. Yeah. Awesome size. So great stuff. I had signed up there to get your, how to skin a bodybuilder articles part one and two. Yeah. Yep. Yep. I've got like, I think 13, 14 articles on there. That's where the, the old carnaging article is too. Oh yeah, yeah. My, my, my, my two quarter, not long ago, just last year, last year in 2022. So, um, so a little bit more, I thought about, do I want to open the can of drugs? Yes. I think we both were saying like that, that this idea that rats don't, they don't apply to humans or animals don't apply to humans. There, there are some differences. So this is a really cool figure. Um, this comes from publication by Shanks at all 2009. They credit James Harris for this. So you can find this figure there and in this. If everyone wants the original studies, I can send those to you. Um, I really get asked for those. Everyone, everyone wants someone asked for a study and it wasn't actually a study I was talking about is a hypothetical, but you want to take an old send me. So this is a pretty cool figure that's really, really interesting. And these, this is looking at bi availability, and uh, so here is the animal bi availability from a 0 to 100%. For various drugs that were under study, compared to human bi availability. And they just grouped this into primates. So, monkeys, macaques, that kind of thing, rodents, many mice, and rats, I thought, to a hamsters in there, and then dogs. And if there was equivalent biolarability, so that's really important for a drug, take 100 milligrams, how much would actually be available to have its, its farm-acoustic dynamic actions. You can't talk about one one action aspect of farm-acoustic, so the body does with the drug. And if it's a one, if it's a one to one, 100% for both, we would be up here, 100% for the rodent. In this case, I'm certainly green ones, that's rodents, 100% for humans. And then the line of identity would be here, we straight line. And for some drugs, this could be maybe where human is. If it hasn't been modified in some, like your humans very poorly biolavailable, in terms of what gets into the bloodstream, although it has probably has some less actions on the microbiome. So, we've got, for some drugs, a very similar biolavability, right? We look at those, they're sort of centered around this line of identity. But then you're going to have some drugs, like this one, where it was any plus percent biolavable in humans on average, and then in rodents, it's like whatever, 2% biolavable. Nothing, right? And sometimes it can be the opposite. So, that's the thing that needs to be examined. When we have a rodent study, and sometimes people will look at these, even this is, this can be the tough part. I sometimes just happen, tap with the melatonin topic, for instance. I notice that it seemed like a lot of reviews were missing on, missing picking up on and discussing important points that I saw to discuss another reviews. And how can they're not mentioning this? So, people aren't going back and doing the full review, and what ends up happening with the topic like that that's been discussed at nauseam. And I see this, I see even sometimes students being taught this in universities, that old studies that are older than five years, you can't cite those for your, for your, you are really like, like when you write something, yeah, like you're like, not at all, even if you want to provide historical perspective, they just don't want any references just like you have to ignore the past. And that is, that is a fatal flaw, as far as I'm concerned, because what I think happens in looking at just this phenomenon, where reviews seem to miss what other reviews are caught up and caught on is if you don't go back and look, but what is previously done, then you're missing some very important factors, and literally like very basic phenomena cannot be picked up on. So, yeah, so that wasn't going to talk about that with melatonin. So, this is just one feature where sometimes it is, sometimes it's not. So, if you want to say that someone could look at this and say, well, look, there's really no correlation here, right? That's, if you correlated all of these points, it's just a pure, basically, a random scatter. There's no, there's no clustering of these points around this line of identity, which suggests that there's a person product moment or other correlation between the animal biovailability of all these different species and the human biovailability. So, someone could say then, there's no application, in terms of biovailability, we can't count on animal, animal, data, whatsoever, to reflect human data. Because, looking at, as the whole, that's, that's true. If you look at this particular statistic, but I refer people to look up the book, how to lie with statistics. One way you can lie with statistics is the whole book, that's the title of the book. But in some cases, for some drugs, you've got very, very similar biovailability, and those cases, then the animal data is very relevant. So, let's go back here to even this, this quail ideas. Like, you can't do this in the extent of hypertrophy, the muscle growth. Here's the stretch overload, right? You get like 200% increase in the muscle size, no matter a month. There's nothing you can do with humans that, that, you know, you could get approval for that. But do that. And who, probably, two, with humans, if you, because you really just have your, your clavocal connecting your shoulder girdle to your, to your spinal column, it's actually a rib cage, right? You probably would like end up, like dislocating or subluxing your spin it, and or separating your shoulder if you try to like lug a fifth-year-old pound dumbbell around your elbow and constantly hanging. Yeah, you know, like if you're sitting at your desk, like you got a type with one hand, because it thinks constantly hanging with these bird birds. So, it just couldn't do that. But what we did get, as I noted with this, that I talked about studying with Jose Antonio, we had this really cool phenomenon where the fibers got bigger as the muscle got bigger and the fibers got smaller as the muscle continue to grow. Huh, that explains something we see in humans, where we can't take out muscles, and we can't count all the fibers, where we see humans with big muscles and ever-sized fibers. Maybe the same thing happens in humans. So even, you look at this, this one aspect, this one feature of response to talk to my, to talk to you, where you've got muscle growth that, way, you see if anything we've seen in humans, there still was a phenomenology behind that where the fibers got bigger and they got smaller, as the adaptation proceeded over time that explains something that when we see, we look cross-sectionally at bodybuilders with average size fibers and big muscles. So, if you throw the, you're throwing the baby out with the bath water, because you just generalize in that way. And those are some examples from the area of exercise science and muscle biology, muscle physiology, and bodybuilding basically that are pretty cool. What do I got now? Oh, here's another, people, I just kind of refer to people. This is the title of a paper that was, I thought it was pretty cool. So there's some problems too, if you look at systematic reviews, this is sort of a review of reviews that there's can be issues that you've got some advantages, and I'm certainly going to have generalized a huge review. You've got some advantages, which you talk about that with the animals, but sometimes that leads to a little bit of sloppiness in terms of how the science gets done. One thing I noticed just in, and this is, you can see this across science, is that the more the harder the science, let's say, so physics is a very hard science, either the particle exists or it doesn't, either you measured it or it didn't. And if you're talking about like particle physics, like a photon's a photon's a photon. Like that's not true of humans. Like a human's not a human is not a human. We've got massive bio-individuality here, whereas in physics, which is kind of the hardest of all sciences, you don't even worry about statistics, lots of cases. So, you need to, unless you're getting into, yeah, then you're getting into all sorts of theoretical physics, then you've got a different story. But for instance, one of the things that was brought up, if you look at toxicology, way that animals handle particular toxins, compared to humans, can be very, very species-specific, so rodents, for instance, they can handle a lot more toxins, even when you're relativized into body surface area, which I didn't mention, I should have thrown that in here, but you can find that I've mentioned this repeatedly over and over again. You just can't say, if you give one gram per kilogram to a rodent, that's the same as one gram per kilogram for a human. Because metabolism varies typically people use body surface area, because there's a relationship between body surface area, which reflects size, but not just mass, and a rate of metabolism. So there are ratios that can be used for comparing mice versus rats versus humans, or hamsters versus humans or dog versus humans. So, and dogs, even when you do that realization, toxicology can be very different, right? Experiminal conditions in humans can be dependent to sort the outcomes. So you can use really high doses, you can do things that just wouldn't be ethical in humans. They don't mimic the humans in area. So you overload a rat and feed them what would be the equivalent of one pound of some supplement per day, and they get cancer after a year. No one's going to eat one pound of caffeine a day or 500 milligrams of caffeine a day. So it's nice in that you're getting an extreme circumstance. We push this to the very limit, and these animals end up with this toxicological profile, but it really doesn't have relevance to what the average person is going to do. But it's a nice thing to know, it's not a benign substance. There are some side effects toxicological issues. I mentioned before, methalologic qualities, so sample size. In a human study, you need to do what's called a power analysis. So you figure out, okay, what is a meaningful difference when we get, when we have x condition for one group versus the placebo group or the control group? Is it 20% more muscle mass or a fifth percent more muscle mass important? Okay, cool. So if you want to have just a relatively good chance, and there's sort of numbers that are being used that are agreed upon of detecting such a difference in your experiment, then you need to factor in how variable you're typically, how variable the response is, so the standard deviation of response, and also how robust your response is. So you want to have for instance a training protocol that produces muscle growth in the first place. So if you want to see something that provides that would potentially increase muscle growth, then you have to have something that produces muscle growth. So that has to be factored in and you can run this, it's basic power analysis. A very simple thing to do really, if you have data from having done these procedures in the lab, and then you say, okay, I don't want to have an underpowered study, so I need to have, Shannon, you have 20 people in my study, because we have massive variability, and we don't have a great training response. Yeah, she's the problem for trained individuals. So shit, we're going to have to, in order and we're going to have a long study, a six month long study, and trained individuals who have at least a year were the training, let's say, which is kind of a common starting point, shit, we're going to have to have a huge study, is that, is that feasible? Yeah. On the other hand, when you've got animals, what kind of happens is like, well, they're all from the same litter, they're basically, they're very, very genetically homogeneous. They all look the same, like they actually do have personalities to some degree, like these are work with rats, they kind of get to know which ones which, give them names, sometimes that sort of thing, but they're very, very similar, so they're like family members are even closer, right? And they're all the same sex, you don't have, you don't have gender or sex issues, and you can control their conditions, control their feed, you control everything that's going on, especially in terms of what condition they get, whether they're the trained group or the non-trained group or they get the supplement, not just supplement, but what have you. So what that means, of course, is that that's really, really powerful, because you don't have a huge variability, and if you have, if you can do things with animals that like, compensatory hyperature, you get this robust response, you get 50, 100% muscle growth in a matter a couple of months, that's awesome. Yeah. So then you can see something matters. You do run into a potential ceiling effect, maybe you're turning on muscle mass, muscle growth, so tremendously, it doesn't matter what you do, right? It's going to happen. And then actually does, and I'll come back to that in just a second. So in animal research, sometimes what happens is they don't do power analyses, they're like, why would they need to? They know they have a robust response, they know they have minimal variability, they got all the features, they need that people pick up on things, so they do, they do six animals, you know, are they 10 animals? A lot of good studies, they do many more, but that tends to be an issue because animal researchers, they don't do that necessarily, because they've been princess doing studies where they didn't have to do it and get away with it. So one's up happening is they have underpowered studies, from going goes back, this is what this researcher did, they went back and look and said, yeah, what you did is find a difference because you had an underpowered study. You didn't have enough samples, it would be like going out and saying, um, you know, I want to find out if men are on average power than women, and you just, you just go out and look at the people who happen to walk past your driveway, right? And you took two men and two women and two men, and you have picked in two short guys and two tall women, like, okay, there we go, women are taller than men, right? Yeah, well, on average it's not true, but you did, you did, your sample size wasn't big enough, right? And you had too much variability because there's going to be lots of women there, taller than men, there's lots of overlap. So interesting the enough, I was going to say, um, uh, in the context of compensatory hypertrophy, which is very interesting, and I've mentioned this before on the podcast. It is a very robust response, and you can look up a guy named Goldberg, we talked about this, I think, in three podcasts. Who talked about Goldberg? Literally, yeah, you take out, you use, you use, you use, you struck a Zodosin and you kill off the beta cells in the pancreas, so there's no insulin. Yeah. The muscle grows just the same, that's right for a hypertrophy. You take out their thyroid gland, you got no thyroid, it's important for metabolism, right? It doesn't matter, you get the same rate of muscle growth, you take out the perpetuity, so now the missing, missing thyroid, now they're missing growth hormone, now they're missing testosterone. You got the same rate of muscle growth, it doesn't matter. You take out all those things, you take out the thyroid, you take out insulin, you take out growth home, you take out testosterone, kind of important for a body of the perspective, and the muscle still grows just the same, because we don't have the tendon transfer studies in humans, where they found some people who were missing their two attorneys, and they're very pretty. They're offered thyroid medication, and they gave them diabetes and let them go with that insulin, but you do this with animals, and you see their same rate of muscle growth, so that's an interesting factor, right? If you look at that, you'd say, well, insulin doesn't matter for muscle growth, which you know from times of other things, testosterone doesn't matter for muscle growth, yes, it does, we know this, right? You look at the other studies, but if you look at that body of literature, those things, you're like, okay, this animal model, it sucks, like it doesn't tell a shit, because it doesn't tell us about those important hormone factors that are important for muscle growth. Yeah. I don't throw the baby out with bathwater, it is important because it actually matches in terms of the reponct response in terms of muscle growth over time. It does match really well with humans, we know this is a tendon transfer thing. So there's things to take, which you just have to take it with a grain of salt, they appropriately size grain of salt. Yeah. So, and then the last thing I'll think I mentioned this in the next slide, you can come up with transgenic animals, you've got this genetic homogeneity, so you can make animals, you know, like animal models of obesity, where they're missing the left and gene or the missing the gene, or they have a defective gene for the left or receptor, right? And those are just, so you mean you've got some people, there's like, I think a family, which we're grossed from France, that lack the left and receptor and they were very obese, but you know, if you really want to say, okay, it's left and important for this side of the other, issues with transgenic model. Like you completely wipe the impact of the left and you can't do that in humans, right? You're not going to find people to do those sorts of things. And you know, someone who, you really, if someone did lack in left and you knew this, well then the ethical thing would be to start treating that lack of left and for their own health folks, right? Right? Right. Yeah, so on the other side, you've got this human genetic diversity. So there's an advantage there and you can have a very detailed sort of non-physiological pathological way of observing the impact of specific genes or specific hormones or specific proteins on any type of physiological response or adaptation. And then you can take some information for that, but no, it doesn't, you can't say that, you know, left in is all that matters for human obesity, that's of course not true. But you do know that if left in isn't working, those animals are very obese. They're just little, they're just round balls of that basically. Yeah, both the OVOV and the DBD, mice. So, so a couple last things, general thoughts. I've mentioned this already animals are, you know, the in-bred species with genetic or about the spelling issue. They're just type this up little bit and now we're going to, when we get to wide genetic variability in humans, this is worth knowing, too, or mentioning the higher arc of scientific evidence. So, you know, you can have case reports, you know, individual observations that, you know, you'll see what you're, could be very, very valuable. This is, this is where some people would put, you know, grow science, just some degree, grow anecdotal reports, right? Okay. This is what I see. When I think of grow science, I think of something where someone has said, this is what I see, and here's my science at the explanation for it, and the science is just completely made up. It doesn't match anything. It's actually science. It doesn't match anything. You learn in school, or in the, finding the scientific literature, they're just making up bullshit to make them sound self-sounds more intelligent or smarter or self-sensored product or whatever. But then we have animal trials. In vitro studies, we talk about these in vitro studies, or things in a cell culture. Cross-sectional studies, and we're talking about humans, case-control studies, where we isolate two different populations of people and compare one to another. So, different populations of people in different countries, or people with the same look at Japanese people who have grown up, first generation, they grow at the US, eating a US diet versus Japanese people who live in Japan. It's the impact on cardiovascular disease, for instance. In their cohorts studies, you follow people, a training hand study, that sort of thing, where you follow cohorts, people in watch, what happens to cardiovascular risk, watch what happens to various things. How important is exercise over the lifespan in terms of preventing the risk of hip fractures in women, or something like that, right? What kind of exercise? We have randomized controlled trials, placebo-controlled, double-blinded, all those are important. And then, usually see at the tip top here, the meta-analyses and systemic reviews. And I do think these are obviously super important. And the thing that I come back to is that these are telling us about what kind of the purpose of science is, can we take a phenomenon studied in a population which we know is relative to homogeneous and say with statistical reasonable probability that if we give this supplement or we have this condition that we're going to have this particular effect or this particular outcome or this elevated risk factor, what have you under those circumstances? And that's something that basically reflects the general usability with which we can that comes from the science that we're going to see this particular effect. This thing's going to happen. So, we know you can look at a meta-analysis that says resistance-training increases muscle growth, right? Bye, whatever. And then you see that's just just a just to call, just statistically significant finding, and we see that over the studies and we see that in reviews and what have you? But there are some people who don't who are non-responders and there are some people who are hyper-response. So these individual randomized controlled studies where you see the individual data and I talked about this here and I talked about this in my why you don't look like a pro-thought. The genetic variability is important. We can see that in these studies if you have any other report to data and we can even see that here in these case control reports. You can see this individual. Any coaches out there, Scott, you know this as well as anybody, not all your clients are the same. Some of them like say where a trend balloon is God's you know it's the holy grail right works great other people note just fuck some up because they can't sleep, they can't recover and they don't go anywhere. Right. So you've got these situations. So this is the hierarchy of science and the evidence but they're also other ways of knowing things. So that's important to keep in mind there's the ethical issues animals versus humans. Tests of outfours, adverse outcomes like the LD50s like what kind of dose is it take to kill up if you're a stand-up a test population or test the test sample we can't we're not going to do that humans right. I mentioned muscle exasperation taking out entire muscle mass fiber counting. You can't do direct body composition in humans. You know you can do a dexa, you do sorts of things but you can't actually tell someone how much body fat they have unless you kill them and do a chemical analysis and that's not worth it. So and I mentioned this to ease of data generation. You can do just you can you can bring animals in and do sorts of pilot studies and these just get your subjects are right there they're available. You just order them your animal show up at your at your they delivered to your door they're delivered to your university you'll pick them up you're good to go. Right and you can you can and they're expendable to some degree. I hate this but this is sort of how things work you do have to get research you have to get approval to do things in the in the university setting the research setting. Sure but humans require much more care and time dealing with human subjects people that you know are sort of keyboard scientists warriors to say I didn't have enough enough people or you had the huge dropout rate. It is not easy to recruit subjects you do so much crazy stuff. By doing that it's a massive output of energy keeping people happy and motivating them etc etc. So you can kind of a broad brush with the animal research some of its applicable something is not depending what you're studying and you're getting more of the finer strokes understanding these phenomena from human studies and then you need to look at the individual data points look what happens to some people some people re-compturing studies they go to training the lose body fat in the game muscle mass. And the people don't get any muscle mass they go nowhere. So you're still not getting everything when you're looking at the epnischististical significance using the statistical significance lens that is typically used and randomized controlled civil controlled double blinded studies because there are differences among individuals and that's what matters for you is what works for you even if the study says it doesn't or does don't. I mean you're. Yeah that's the whole crew the whole pack. Yep that's the yep that's the the suky in the background that's a little sorry the suky in the front here in the little super room. Yeah my nugget career there's the blitzie blue my blitzie bear and this is the fox now. Foxy in the back can't have you fox yep that's nice with the waggy tail you can see is that new picture that's an older picture I was looking I have I've used my laptop I have a one-trick some other computer but this is in our truck camper oh this is right before the pandemic actually when I got spam okay yeah well they still look happy they're still there's still glad to be there with you you know oh what are we doing today dad yeah exactly yeah so all right well listen if you were to sum this up Scott if you were to sum this up into the the elevator pitch um our rat studies useless okay frozen for a little while they're scary I quit the oh came out of power point okay we now I can hear you can hear me all right yep yep all right just a short lip so the elevator pitch how does some rises yeah um don't throw the baby out with the bathwater animal research there's there's all sorts there's all sorts of utility for this the things it just can't be done and to give us insights that we otherwise couldn't have like that that phenomena of fibers being average size and muscles that are larger you don't have high purgifete but you've got a larger muscle so there's so much there but you need to contextualize it so there are it there times when the animal research is is is much less relevant um and there are times when it's very relevant and it depends on what aspect one feature of of physiology of ad adapts or response to mock photography that you're concerned with and to generalize and just say that how do it is phrase animals don't apply animal studies don't apply to humans is just really an over-general over-generalization that is not true when stated in that fashion there's very well can't be some cases when you're like yeah this one doesn't really fit and some of that can be that the animal studies do apply to some humans some humans but they may not apply to you because you're an outlier in terms of that particular feature in terms of that particular response or adaptation so that's the thing to consider and you can always just read the studies and make your own mind up but just to like just throw that away like you're missing out you know yeah it's like you're like the guys like I want to I did I looked at two women and two guys it walked past my drive went all women are taller than a men I'm never gonna date because I want to woman that's shorter than me and they're all taller oh my gosh right you're just lost your whole your whole relationship possibilities because you didn't look look a little bit closer into the in the data and everyone has the ability to do that you can find this stuff as I say again and again on Google scholar on PubMed it's all available it's it's so available now it's amazing so don't undervalue your own own ability to screw dies the research because you can average intelligence person figure wanting to stuff out if they're willing to try you know I should dig back Scott and see if we have if I have the video still for the episode where you talked about learning how to read studies I feel like we could read release that same podcast because that was excellent that was a good two plus years ago now maybe four years ago even you know but I think that would be a that would be a good one that would be a fun one to go back over again just to talk about the basics about here's a study here are the parts of a study this is this is what you can do with it I think there a lot of people wouldn't get a lot out of that yeah and I did that that was a topic on and I can't remember which one other podcast that I did like in the last year okay yeah I've done that topic a few times yeah this is a big one yeah you know so it's out there it's you can leave the horse to water but can't make a great kind of thing yeah yeah but maybe somebody will you know it'll work somebody up the thing is I think and this is our both gas we don't know like there's nothing to call anybody out but chances are and this is this is the issue this is kind of the crux of this is that to some degree we have to have to sort of trust in someone right someone's the expert right and you can't be an expert in everything like I'll just example like I mean unless you're an automatic yourself you got to take your card or someone maybe can change your own oil and you can you know put your tires on or what have you but eventually you're going to have to leave let let someone else be your your expert and make some decisions for you and if your expert is told you something like how that animal studies they don't matter whatsoever that's the thing we kind of watch out for because that maybe very true in very specific instance but the thing I would suggest people to do is to ask that expert for the evidence for that and if they are truly the expert and they come up with that because they have you know a very cheap a very deep insight into that particular area and they should have that information on the top of their head they should be giving an example or explain themselves really really easily you know the believe me just because I said so type of response is one is okay maybe I'll go look into it myself it's kind of like kind of when you go into the car the mechanic you know and they say they're going to give you this estimates like why don't we gotta do that and their answer doesn't make sense like okay trust your intuition yeah you know and go get a second opinion so second opinions are are totally worth it in this area yeah it's funny that's the exact reason that you don't really like to be called doctor doctor scottes Stevenson because you know I think a lot of people don't know that you don't want people to put you on that pedestal of being like just blindly trust you would rather people ask those questions which you know I have a lot of respect for that yeah it's it's so it's a weird thing it's like the fan phenomenon or it's nice it's good to have respect for people and it's good to know what's coming from right yeah but but the doctor thing it it puts I mean I see this all the time you've probably seen this with your clients at the as with my clients and with friends who've gone in and they speak with western physicians and I'm not trying to bash on wet through western physicians just like with every question there's awesome trainers there's awesome barbers there's awesome nail technicians there's awesome mechanics and there's some that aren't so great right and there's some physicians and this happens just because we have a mindset in our society with western physicians and I think just the term doctor that they have MD stands for the joke is minor deity right these are gods and they're and they are to be questions and some doctors they don't want to answer those questions and and they can become very some can they just they just tell you they don't know giving you actually these things yeah so that is I can do very generalize perspective that I've noticed especially in that context with western physicians and the doctor title that just it's just part of our our unconsciousness I think and we we tend to just when you see the doctor thing it's like oh okay this person knows more than you know yeah and then they stop questioning that person I don't know that's like it's really opposite I've said a million times it's like ah now you have a resource for information right and if this person's gonna be it's there a good teacher which is hopefully why you're there to learn from them how you can ask questions they should be able to tell you all sorts of stuff not the opposite like it's just believe me thing it's just the opposite which it should be like ah now I can pick your brain you know be nice don't don't come up to someone in the gym it's right asking questions right um for half an hour but yeah you got a resource and it's been the doctor person but I avoid that just because most people who ask me stuff they recognize that I can be a resource and the doctor thing generally it ends up working against against what I'm trying to and the work towards which is openness and information and and helping people learn for themselves right um well with all that sense got I appreciate you taking the time to go over all this like I said man this is uh something that I think you could specialize in this topic versus anybody else that we podcast with so I'm grateful that that we do have you as that resource and this is this is my gig man I look at the research and I try to make it understandable so figuring out when the reason that's I mean I talked about that prints in the context of end sades and various my articles yeah I've I brought out that you don't always see the same responses right at patients and humans versus rats you got to have to be very careful for that yeah yeah yeah I numerous responses or numerous examples are popping in my head but we'll save that um so there are many cases where I brought that to the four fun and so there's some truth in that but that would black and white world baby fortunately all right guys well for another episode of muscle minds go to bbiobccoach.com and get Scott's book there be your own bodybuilding coach or you can find it over an Amazon it's great book and get the hard cover an Amazon you get the ebook at bbiobcoach.com of course go to our great sponsors turnutrition.com use our code think they're having a new year's thing where they have like 15% off the site so for our life people who are watching here and the Facebook group for think big bodybuilding media you go take advantage of that right now otherwise use our code think helps to sport a programming and you get a small discount with that also strong sports nutrition for those of you in the UK and of course supplement source.ca for those you can canada you get great deals that roll week to week they change all the time of course thank you to everybody on patreon appreciate you guys very much and thank you to everybody who's watching live today. Scott Stevenson most of all thank you to you it has been a pleasure to have another year of podcasting and I look forward to seeing what we do in the future man. Hell yeah yeah yeah to that someone who might listen to someone who's just gonna laugh 2023s our year Scott it's our year baby yeah hopefully nothing hopefully it doesn't come back to haunt us right. All right. I'll speak to somebody said that at the beginning of 2000 and was a 2020 when when the pandemic hit it was right at the beginning of the year and somebody paid for everybody's food at a restaurant and something they did like a news interview about it and this woman was like 2020 is gonna be the greatest year ever and then they kept replaying that clip throughout the whole year. Anyway guys saw something the other day to us and then I realized this is in the context of pandemic. Yeah this year 2022 is 2020 too. Yeah that's just a big hit all over you. Yeah oh that's funny. All right see you guys. Bye.

I have a problem with resting space. If you have resting space and you know it, it's your problem. And it's a hindrance to your life because it makes everyone who interacts with you, question, whether you really want to interact with them. And I've talked about this. It's not actually a good thing. People brag about it. Here at Girls Go, well, I just have resting space. And it's like, okay, it's going to cost you a lot. It's going to cost you relationships. It's going to cost you business. It's going to cost you all sorts of interactions with people. It's going to cost you financially. It's going to fucking cost you. It's not a good thing. Learn to be nice to people, smile at people, say hi. If you have resting space, it's a f*** problem. There, how's my rant? It's good. It's good. Yeah. Stop it. People don't want to talk to you. So what are we? One