 successiveolololol, successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive successive sure that you like, follow, subscribe, and share with your fitness friends and family, and leave a five-star review. Now here's the episode, The Anatomy and Function of the Cavs. Welcome to the NASM CPT Podcast, winner of ShareCare and Gold Marcom Awards. Host and award-winning personal trainer and industry leader, Dr. Rick Ritchie delivers real-world wisdom and trusted insights that keep you and your clients thriving. Hey y'all, and welcome to the NASM CPT Podcast. My name is Rick Ritchie, and today we're going to talk about the anatomy and the function of the calves, or singular calf. And I'm going to point this out. This muscle a lot of times is what's referred to as the bodybuilder's nightmare. Even Arnold Schwarzenegger despised his calves because they were what he considered to be weak, or at least a weak point compared to his massive upper body. And he said that they look like chicken legs. So he famously cut the bottoms off of all of his sweatpants to force himself to look at them and address them. And yes, you can do exercise to increase the size of your calves, but like any other muscle, you have to have the appropriate volume to do so. If you look at the old photos of Arnold Schwarzenegger, a lot of times, like beach photos, he may have been knee deep in water. And that was in part because the insecurity that he had around that. Now, my goal here today is not to go through how to increase the hypertrophy of your calves, but more to go into an understanding of the anatomy of the calves and the function of the calves. So let's start with just the etymology. So etymology, where'd them words come from? So the word calf likely comes from an old Norse word for calfi, which means swelling. And if you think about it, if you look at the bottom part of the leg, the calf muscle is like a swollen part of the leg, the swollen portion in the lower leg. So that makes sense. Now it's also the same word as a baby cow, but these are likely words known as homographs. Homographs, meaning they sound the same, but they're, they're, they're from different origins and they have different meanings. So we're going to look at the two muscles that comprise the calves. The first muscle is the gastrocnemius. The second muscle is the soleus and together as we whip them together and they have the same tendon together, they're often referred to, uh, at least in the literature as the triceps surae and the triceps meaning three heads and surae meaning leg in Latin. And we're going to have a different word that means leg. And I think Greek in just a moment, when we talk about the gastrocnemius. So the triceps surae, if you think about it, the triceps surae, the calves are, uh, branching from the same muscle, right? So if you follow the, the Achilles or the calcaneal tendon, and it goes from the bottom of the calcaneus around the posterior side of the calcaneus up the back of the leg, there is the soleus, which is one head and then the medial and lateral head of the gastrocnemius. And those comprise the three heads of the triceps surae or the calves. So let's get into those muscles as we separate them from the triceps surae. So we're going to talk first about the gastrocnemius. Gastroc, gastroc, you know, we, we think about the term gastroc and it sounds like food. I know that sounded weird, but gastronomy. And the word gastro means stomach or belly. And so the gastrocnemius, neemius means leg in Greek, I believe in surae is Latin for leg, triceps surae, gastrocnemius. It is the literal translation here, belly leg, or the way that we would say it would be belly of the leg. And again, looking at the gastrocnemius, which is the portion that stands out more, the swollen, distended portion of the calves, it is the belly leg. So let's get into the gastrocnemius. We're going to talk a little bit about its origin and insertion or proxel and distal attachments. And then we're going to get into what are some of the joint actions. So let's go here. Lateral head is, okay, we're going to, we're going to get into it. It's going to get thick. The upper posterior lateral surface of the lateral condyle of the femur. Now the femur has these, these two knobs on each side, medial and lateral. And so the lateral head goes on the posterior lateral side of the lateral condyle, that, that bony section that's rounded and protrudes out laterally. Now the medial head attaches to the posterior surface of the medial femoral condyle. And then there's another area of attachment where it's the popliteal surface of the femur. And in between the two condyles is this sulcus, this little dip, and it flattens out. And that is the popliteal surface of the femoral shaft, also where a muscle called the popliteus is. All right. That's where that one is. So then it's going to, to go down, it's going to go from the femur, cross over the knee, they merge, they go together, and then they insert into the surface of the calcaneus via the calcaneal tendon, or what we refer to as the Achilles tendon. All right. So the calcaneal tendon or the Achilles tendon, and it crosses over the ankle there, and it will do a joint action there. So if let's go back up to the knee, if it crosses on the posterior side of the knee, which it does, crosses on the posterior side of the knee, when that muscle contracts, it will assist in knee flexion. It is a knee flexor. A lot of times that let's say I'm going to work my hamstrings. If I want to get my calves more involved, I will dorsiflex my foot so that I take out some of the slack in my calves, create more tension, and my gastrocnemius is now a greater contributor to knee flexion when I go into dorsiflexion. So let's say you're doing seated hamstring curls. You can either dorsiflex to get more of your gastroc in. And you can plantar flex to minimize it. And that will also increase the requirement on the hamstrings when it comes to doing the curl. So these are different components. I also want to point out too, that if I'm doing a sports performance and I'm trying to help somebody practice how quick they flex their knee and turn their foot over when they're running, then make sure that when you reach forward, you're going to most likely, especially in sprinting, ball of the foot strike. And as you drive back, we're going to immediately cue to dorsiflex. And you'll see it. If you just put your leg down, keep your hip fully extended, put your leg back behind you a little bit, and you can just kind of flex the foot like you're going to kick yourself in your butt, but don't do anything at your ankle. Just kind of leave, leave the ankle muscles relaxed and do it as fast as you can. Then if you dorsiflex and then you try to kick yourself in your butt, it is so much faster. And that's one of the things that we do when we talk about sports performance is I want to get more turnover. Then you're going to dorsiflex so that you get a more rapid turnover before you go into the extension phase of your run. So as you kick back, dorsiflexion increases how fast you can do that. So we've got this at the knee, but we also know it does something at the ankle. This is the one that most people know they feel very confident about at the ankle joint or more specifically the talocrural joint is going to be plantar flexion. It is a plantar flexor. We know our calves are plantar flexors, but our gastrocnemius crosses the knee and it also does knee flexion. Now I'd say that the medial head of the gastrocnemius has some internal or medial rotational abilities at the knee joint. Now there's not a lot of movement at the knee joint when it comes to the transverse plane. It's very sagittal, right? It's knees flex and extend. Our talocrural joint is actually probably one of the true hinge joints. At that joint, there is no other movement. It is plantar flexion, dorsiflexion at that joint, but the knee actually has a lot more play. So it's kind of, I can't remember. I think it's 15 degrees of medial rotation and about 30 degrees of lateral rotation. Well, a lot of times people's feet turn out and some of that is abduction at the foot itself and flattening of the foot, but some of it is actual lateral rotation of the tibia at the femur. So as we, especially as we go into flexion, the, the tibia will laterally rotate. And yeah, that can lead to some valgus, not necessarily wrong, but it is something we want to be very aware of. But as that foot turns out and it is rotated at the knee, then we are going to want to do some exercises that help to strengthen medial rotation. So my medial hamstring muscles and my medial gastrocnemius can medially rotate the tibia at the knee joint. And what does that mean otherwise? It means that they're probably lateral gastroc and biceps femoris are a bit tight and they can do some of the rotation, lateral rotation at the knee. Excuse me. So maybe if you see that, there'll be some opportunities to say, okay, well, maybe we foam roll and stretch our biceps femoris and our lateral head of the gastrocnemius. And then I can do some things like strengthen my semimembranosus, semitendinosus, sartorius, and my medial gastroc to help get some internal rotation of the tibia. If we start to see rotation, external rotation at the knee. All right. Well, we also have the soleus now. So let's look at the soleus and the gastrocnemius is superficial. And it doesn't mean that it's not a deep thinker. Superficial just means closer to the surface. So soleus, anatomically speaking, would be deep. So gastrocnemius is superficial and the soleus would be deep, not a deep thinker, just deep in its location. So the soleus is located just beneath the gastrocnemius, just under it, closer to the bone. And it is a flatter muscle, which is where it gets the name the soleus, like solea, meaning the sandal of the foot, the flatness of the foot because of its appearance. It looks flat, almost like a sandal. It's also where we get the name sole for a fish because the sole fish is a, I'm a sole fish. Nope. It is a flat fish, much like the way I just sang. So it is a flat fish that lies down, looks like the sole, the flatness of the foot. So does the soleus muscle. Well, let's talk about the soleus muscle briefly. We're going to go with the origin. So the soleal line is a line on the tibia along with the medial border of the tibia. And there is an insertion point or an origin point, a proximal attachment there. And then it also attaches at the head of the fibula, the small bone in the lower leg. So the tibia is the bigger bone in the lower leg. Uh, technically I keep saying lower leg. Here we go. We call the entire leg, the thigh and the, the lower leg, uh, a leg. Anatomically speaking, technically the, the thigh is the upper leg and the leg is the lower leg. But I will continue to say lower leg lest we throw ourselves off. So the lower leg, there's the, the tibia and the fibula. Tibia is a big, the big bone. Fibula is a small bone. They go down and they actually attach to each other, uh, in the distal attachment. And there's a talus that goes in between those two bones. And that is the talocruel joint that we talked about for plantar flexion. So we're also going to have a talocruel, uh, joint being affected with this muscle. But if we look at it, we follow the, that muscle down from the tibia and the fibula where they comes together into the calcaneal tendon, uh, and attaches to the calcaneus. It does plantar flexion at the talocruel joint or the talocruel joint. And the talocruel joint is again, where the tibia and fibula, uh, have their attachment. So it is their distal attachment and the talus is right in between them and plantar flexion takes place there. So we want to be aware of that. Now there is a mnemonic that I had read somewhere that says, stand on your soul gas explode. So there's a mnemonic there, excuse me. And what it really means is stand on your souls is that the calves or the soleus is known for its ability to be a postural muscle or a, uh, what we oftentimes refer to as the workhorse of the calves. So the soleus is the muscle that if, if the leg, the lower leg muscles are working, it's going to be the, the, the soleus. The soleus is the workhorse, but the gas explodes. The gastrocnemius is the explosive movement muscle. It is the one that goes into maybe as we do our running and our jumping. That is the muscle that is primarily tuned up for that. Now, before we leave this, as we've kind of gone into the functions of the muscle and then what exercises are they a part of? Certainly they're part of walking and locomotion and calf raises. And yes, if you want to focus on your gastrocnemius, you having your knee straight is more effective doing calf raises. There's also seated calf raises, and that is better suited to primarily or preferentially focus on your soleus and not your gastrocnemius. I think all, all of them are good options, but I also want to point out that just doing squats is going to work your calves. Because if you think about it, plantar flexion, if I go down into a squat position, especially if I go deeper into a squat, not a deadlift, a squat, my knees are going to go past my toes. Well, in order for my shin to translate backwards, that is shin on foot, basically, plantar flexion. As my shin moves up, that's plantar flexion as it goes back into a standing position. So your calves are very responsible for pushing into the ground, leading to your shin moving back, allowing you to stand up out of a squat. This is why a lot of times people get a bit knee focused. They get a little too much on the ball of the foot because the calves can help them come up. And that is oftentimes why we might say, sit back or keep your heels on the ground. I do not coach people to put weight into their heels. Because if I do a squat and put weight into the heels, then I can't use my calves to support me. And then it also ends up being a deadlift while loaded on my shoulders, as opposed to a squat. So I want my knees to go forward. My knees, more than likely, depending on the size of your foot and the size of your, your shins, your knees will be past your toes when you do a squat, but they also shift forward. We shift weight into the ball of our foot, our heels come up, and then our heels move medially, which relatively speaking, our toes point out. And then we say, your toes turned out. Your toes didn't turn out. Your heels lifted up and turned in. Therefore, relatively, your toes are now pointing out. But you can keep your feet pointed out when you do squats. But I'm just saying that as you do the squat, the knees, as they track forward over the toes, especially in a more narrow stance, are going to be more involved in helping you get back up. So the calves are a nice touch. But let's talk about something else that I think is very important. The calves are also known as something else very important. It is oftentimes referred to as your second what? Heart. Your calves can be referred to as your second heart because they act as a pump for the circulatory system. When they contract, they squeeze and it pushes deoxygenated blood from the lower legs back up to the heart. It helps to fight against gravity as it squeezes, pushes blood back up against gravity. And this muscle pump helps to increase circulation. It prevents blood pooling. It reduces strain on the heart. It makes regular movement pretty essential when it comes to your overall cardiorespiratory health. And this is why long flights can be concerning. By preventing blood pooling, this is a big concern that we have a lot of times when people go on long flights and they can't straighten their legs and they can't get up and walk around as easily. Or they don't want to disturb people. And I say, it's okay. Get up. Get up. Stand up. Stand up for your rights. Get up. Stand up. Stand up during flights. So I want you to get up and walk around, especially on long flights, to help minimize blood pooling because this. Let's return blood back to, towards the heart. The calves prevent the accumulation of blood in the lower limbs. It helps to reduce swelling and then helps reduce the risk of blood clots. So how do you stay active and keep your second heart activated? You can do it by walking. Just walking regularly is the most effective way to keep that muscle pump. And I'm not talking about like a Arnold Schwarzenegger pump. I'm talking about a literal pump moving blood distally back to the central part of the body, back towards the heart. Doing calf raises and even standing on your toes can do it. A lot of times if I'm in on long flights, I will do some seated calf raises and kind of bounce my legs a lot just to see if I can get some extra blood going. And then if possible, again, hard to do on flights is elevating your legs, because keeping your legs higher can, uh, can help with that venous return. So how about this? Neglecting to move, particularly during long periods of sitting, it doesn't matter if you're on a flight or not be at work. We just tend to get up more. Uh, it can cause this pump to work less efficiently and it require more effort from the primary pump, the heart to keep blood flow going. All right. There's a little bit, uh, what I consider to be an interesting nuggets about the calves. So thanks for listening. Thanks to our producer, Eric Sorensen, like subscribe, share, and leave a five-star review. And if you want to reach out to me, hit me up on Instagram at dr.rickrichie or email me rick.richie at nasm.org. Y'all keep inspiring people to fitness. Thanks for listening. This has been the NASM CPT podcast. Thanks for tuning in to NASM CPT podcast, like share and subscribe for more expert insights that empower you and your fitness career. Stay strong and stay curious.