 On today's episode of the NASM-C-PT podcast with me, Rick Ritchie, I explore the idea that it is more complex than just calories in versus calories out. So today on the show, we talk about hormones that are going to seek to thwart the math of calories in, calories out. We also explore the concept of adaptive thermogenesis and your adaptive response is affected by the lifestyle that you have and certain things such as sleep, age, gender hormones. And then also let's point out this. Coaching is more important than the mapping. Stick around, figure out what we're talking about there. Make sure that you like, follow, subscribe, share with your fitness friends and family and leave a five-star review. Now here's the episode. It's more complex than just calories in versus calories out. Welcome to the NASM CPT podcast, winner of ShareCare and Gold Marcom Awards. Host and award-winning personal trainer and industry leader, Dr. Rick Ritchie delivers real-world wisdom and trusted insights that keep you and your clients thriving. Hey y'all and welcome to the NASM CPT podcast. My name is Rick Ritchie and today I want to share something with you. I think all of you know this, but we're kind of going in the face of some laws of physics, but here's the thing. It's more complex than just calories in versus calories out. Now, okay, whoa, whoa, whoa, hold it up, hold it up, hold up. Yes, calories in versus calories out is a law of physics. Facts, facts, that's true. But the human body is not some kind of passive system that just receives information and says, oh, okay, you're just going to passively go along with the decisions my brain has made to limit calories and maintain my activity levels or increase activity levels. So the human body, when it gets a hold of something, it likes to hold on to it. It likes to hold on to those fat stores. And so when we're at a caloric deficit, the body reacts. The body doesn't just say, hey, we're at a caloric deficit. Cool. Let's start melting off the fat. And that's just not how it works. So let's talk about some things that interrupt this. There's a word that we need to know. It's a hormone called ghrelin. All right. We don't just limit calories and exercise more and limit calories and do more exercise and the weight comes off. The body responds in a way that it wants to conserve what it has received. So ghrelin is one of those things. Also, let's just talk about some things that we already kind of know to be true. So for instance, my mom, for years, she had had a thyroid issue and she had gained some weight and she started medication. And when she started medication, she started to lose weight immediately and a relatively significant amount. So that wasn't just an agreement of her brain saying, hey, calories in versus calories out. She had tried for a very long time to limit the amount of calories and go and include more movement into her daily life. Going to the community center and going out for a walk in our very hilly neighborhood where I grew up in Florence, Alabama. It's very hilly. And so that was a challenge. And all of a sudden she's taken some type of thyroid hormone and the weight comes off. Is that because the just decision to lose weight? She had decided over and over and over and over that that was something that she wanted to do, but the hormones make a difference. And so we'll get to ghrelin. We'll get to ghrelin in a second. So some people gain weight and some people lose weight. And when it comes to medication, and I'm talking about medication, not just designed for weight loss. Sometimes for me as someone with diabetes, I have to take insulin and my insulin requirements change. And when my insulin requirements change, sometimes I gain weight. Sometimes I lose weight depending on the changes. And that is not just because I've decided to limit my calories or I've decided to move more or vice versa. Think about also women going through menopause, the body will be changing. There's a lot of changes that go on the body when it comes to menopause and the calorie intake didn't change or maybe it did, but why it's not just, let me just say, all I'm going to do is say calories in and calories out and you have the answers and you have the solution. And when that doesn't work, that's on you because I gave you the mathematical formula as your trainer. Here's the mathematical formula. And it's not something that you adhered to. Okay. So now we're taking that and saying, you can't hold me responsible. I gave you the reason, the easy math that makes it work, but it's honestly, um, it's a bit weak in its approach. It's not incorrect, but it's also a lot not correct. And again, mathematically speaking, yes, energy in and energy out, but you are doing energy in energy out through a lot of things that stand in the way. So the math of calories in calories out works. If you can overcome the body's innate responses that is trying to thwart your efforts to lose that weight. So let's talk about some adaptive responses and it's rooted in several factors. I think we need to make sure that we address, uh, number one, let's talk about sleep. Sleep is a big concern. Are you getting enough sleep? And there's some content out there that shows that sleep helps with weight loss. And if you are not getting enough sleep, that is such a stress onto your body that your body changes the way it responds. So, okay. Now here I am, I'm going to say, all right, calories in calories out. I'm going to give you some simple math, but then limit the amount of sleep you're getting and the, the, the processes that go along that help you sleep, that allow you to sleep and what sleep does for your body and your system. I can no longer just say it's as simple as calories in calories. I got to look at the sleep. So can I look at my clients and say, let's have a discussion, not just calories in calories out. How much sleep are you getting? Let's talk about stress. Stress also has a component and limits in sleep add to the amount of stress that you have. And that stress is physiological. It's not like I'm limited my sleep. And so my brain, I'm having stress and anxiety because the same way that you might have with a big project that's, that's looming over you or the demands that people are putting on you. It is a different type of stress. For those of you who have sleep apnea, sleep apnea, sometimes yes, can be caused by weight gain, but sometimes sleep apnea exists outside of weight gain and can lead to weight gain. No, we're chasing our tails on this. We're running around in circles because we don't know which one is which. And that's why I think it's very important that we take into account all of these considerations. There's a hormonal balance that has to be addressed. And of course, sleep messes with your hormone imbalance. Stress messes with your hormone balance. The amount of inflammation that you have is also going to be a factor on your weight loss journey. And it is there to thwart your calories in, calories out idea. The simple idea that all I have to do is save this many calories and move this much because your body is going to react. It also reacts based on what your sex is, what your age is, and that is going to also take us back to menopause. And menopause is one of those things that just, it thwarts in so many different ways. And it is wildly frustrating for so many people who go through it, the hot flashes that happen, the covers on, the covers off, the sweating, the freezing, the back and forth, the up and down. And I can't just say, oh, if you're trying, you're gaining weight during this time in your life and you come and you say, hey, I want a personal trainer. I want to start really trying to get stronger, get fitter, build my bone mineral density, and I've been gaining weight. I want to stop gaining weight or I want to lose some weight. Just know that that challenge is there and your hormones have decided, and it's decided differently in everybody. But I'm telling you, during menopause, that, thems are the brakes, right? This is going to be a real challenge to take on. We have to overcome things that are in the way, issues, a biological series of responses that don't like the idea of calories in versus calories out. And we make it sound really simple. And if all you did was say, all right, listen, I'm going to look at my Newtonian physics and I'm looking at the law of thermodynamics, the system at which allows our biology to work is oftentimes in disagreement with the conscious decision that we make that I would like to eat less. Because there are factors that jump into our body and say, I know cognitively, I would like to limit how much I'm eating. But my brain, my body, my gut, my hormones, so many things inside of my system is saying, nay, listen not to that voice. Listen to the voice that I'm telling you. Go get something sweet or savory and bring it to me now. In the concept of adaptive thermogenesis, we have ghrelin. Ghrelin is the hunger hormone. It's produced in the tummy, in our stomachs. And ghrelin is the thing that signals to our brain, specifically the hypothalamus. It's time to eat. It's time to eat. And ghrelin, when we try to continue to not eat, limit our food, then that signal likes to speak up, certainly. And then also some things that happen are another hormone is called leptin. And leptin is the satiety hormone. And that is, it comes from fat, not the stomach, or like ghrelin does. It comes from stored fat. And it lets you know when it's time to stop eating. And leptin resistance is something that can cause the brain to miss the signals that say it's time to stop eating. And we don't limit the eating until there's an expansion of sorts within our stomach, because the expanding of our stomach also allows the leptin to be like, oh, okay. But that leptin has to be signaled, and it has to go to the brain, and the brain has to receive that appropriately in order to stop. Now, yeah, can I stop? Can I stop? Cognitively, consciously, can I make the decision to stop eating? Cognitively, consciously, can I stop eating? Sure, you can put food on a plate and say, this is all I'm going to eat. And then you can eat that. But it doesn't change the fact that ghrelin might still be there going, hey, hey, dang it. I require more food. And there are times I do this. I go to the refrigerator and I open the refrigerator door because I want to eat. And then I don't see anything I want. And I close the door. And two minutes later, I'm right back up opening the refrigerator going, there's got to be something in here. And I close the door and I open it back up. Oh, there's food in the refrigerator. It's just not the food that supports the cravings that I'd like to have at that time. Now, I know some of you. Some of you are going, great, then just don't eat. Sit down and stick to your macros. Man, that's so easy for somebody to say that doesn't struggle the way that some other people struggle. If all you're doing is just saying, hey, it's just this simple, then you don't know how hard it is for some people. And there is an innate flaw in the delivery of the support system that should be there. Because what happens is that the energy expenditure, when you continue and you say, okay, well, now I'm going to limit the amount of food that I'm taking in, then your body says, fine. Then I will limit the amount of movement that you do. And I might increase the amount of lethargy. Or I might slow the bodily processes down even more. So let's say that you go and you exercise. Great. And even in the caloric deficit, you go in it and you exercise. But in an attempt to salvage and save those stored calories, your body might slow down even more. It might slow down even more. I even did my exercises. I hit my calorie goals. But suddenly, the body is now responding by saying, all right, we're going to slow this weight loss process. And we might even lose muscle in this process, which also is something we don't want to happen. And all of this as an attempt for the thyroid to adapt that causes weight loss to slow or gain with the stops and the starts, the back and forth. Here's the thing. The hard part for the clients is when the trainers just point out that the math, that's all they have to do. And don't consider the other components. And this can make clients feel like it's their fault. It's more complicated than just the math. The math isn't mapping because if that's all we had to do was do the math of calories in, calories out, then it would really give us considerable, repeatable results for every single person. But we train the people. We train people. And this is the kind of stuff that can increase the challenge of training. But if we're not prepared for it, it's easy for us to say, well, listen, I did my part. I came up with this concept. This really, really, it's calories in, calories out. How about that? And all I have to do is preach that to my clients. And if there's no other support system, then all you're doing is data transfer and treating them as if they're not an active system. And it's just, here's another passive download. All I have to do is provide the information. We know that's not true. If all we had to do was provide the information, then we could just send them a text and say, this is your workout. And then they would take that workout and they would go out and do it. But when it comes to workouts, we seem to commit a little bit more. And we say, oh, you've got to come in. And we're going to do it this way. And we're going to approach it this way. And we're going to set a time. And I'm going to be here for you. And I'm going to hold you accountable for the day and the time that you come in. But when it comes to your diet, calories in, calories out, you're on your way. Far more complicated than just stating the math. The challenges exist beyond the calories. And the power isn't the math. The power is the coaching and the support that goes along with it. Also, obesity is a medical condition. So when clients with obesity are here, you should consider support beyond yourself. They should consider support beyond the trainer. And you as the trainer should support that additional support. Yes. Yes. I wouldn't say, hey, I know that you have heart disease. And I know exercise is really good for it. Don't have to worry about going to the doctor. You don't need LipTor. You need me. The trainer. No. No. You should go to the physician. And you should get the medical consult. And if the medical consult says, don't worry about exercise, then we can say, okay, let's find another physician. But the medical professional, especially somebody who focuses on weight gain, weight loss, obesity. If we're working with those people, 100%. They're going to say, yes, keep working with your trainer. These are other considerations. And there may be medications. There may be additional supports that they can provide. But this is where the coaching comes in. And this is where things like the NASM certified nutrition coach and the wellness coaching education really come in handy. They play a significant role in helping clients be supported, not just being told, here's the math. Go do the formulas on your own. And the formulas are actively fighting against you. The formulas are actively fighting against you. You know, we're going to go up and say, let's, space invaders, we're going to go up and land on the moon. And yet we have all these little space invaders who are trying to knock you off course. Say, hey, the moon's only this far away. All you need is this amount of thrust. And you're going to get to the moon. Stop worrying about it. You just need this. You just need this. It's not fair to the clients, especially clients who are struggling. Some people it may work great for. It may work great. And you can go through some of those steps. And some of the steps that are supportive. Like, let's go ahead and meal prep. Meal prepping is a great way to do it. Let's food log. Yes, great way to do it. Give me more. What else do you have? I have meal prep and food log. That's it. That's it. All right. You got meal prep, food log, and math. If it was just the math, it would be so much easier. But the results, they would be consistent across the board. But the program cannot just be keyed in and the output arrive. Biology uses physics. But it manipulates the variables in ways that are not seen. And so we can't just give you the physics and not talk about some of the ways that your biology will step in, sometimes aggressively, to try to limit what you're trying to do when it comes to the physics, the thermodynamics. So be supportive. Seek additional supports. And for you as the professional, seek additional education. All right, y'all. Thanks for listening. Thanks to our producer, Eric Sorensen. Like, subscribe, share, leave a five-star review. And if you want to reach out to me, hit me up. You can do so on Instagram at dr.rickrichie. Or email me at rick.richie at nasm.org. Keep inspiring people to fitness. Thanks for listening. This has been the NASM CPT Podcast. Thanks for tuning in to NASM CPT Podcast. Like, share, and subscribe for more expert insights that empower you in your fitness career. Stay strong and stay curious.