ohiohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohohoh to technology, how we do our workouts when it comes to apps, and what we're going to do with interpreting the data, but also the aspect of improving our social lives as well as our mental wellness and health. So like, follow, subscribe, download, share, give us a five out of five rating, but enjoy this episode. Welcome to Random Fit. Wendy Betts and Ken Miller dive into fitness talk that's anything but ordinary. From the classics to the quirky, proud winner of a Goldmark Calm Award. Hello, everyone. Welcome to Random Fit. I am Wendy Betts here with my co-host and friend, Ken Miller. Ken, how's it going? Good, Wendy. How you doing? I am doing great. And on this episode, we are going to talk about the 2026 ACSM Worldwide Fitness Trends. Now, I know that we've done this in the past. We've done this year after year, but it's super important to know where our industry is today and where it's been and what's kind of holding steady, what's gaining traction. Some things are kind of surprising, or I was a little surprised, I don't know about you, Ken, about things that are losing traction. And so we're going to talk about some of the, well, I guess the order from 20 down. Yeah, we're going to do like a, you know, a top 40 countdown if you're like Casey Kasem back in the day. Wow. We'll start off, yeah, to age myself a little bit. But, you know, we, if you've been listening to both Wendy and I, you know that we do like our surveys and we do like to know what's happening because it's good to be in touch with, with what's happening out there. Because if you don't know some of these points that we're going to bring up, maybe it's a time for you to kind of research if it's something interesting to you, because it is all about fitness. So what we're going to do today is we're going to count down from 20 to 11, and then we're going to go more specifically in the top 10. So to start off, number, number 20 is youth athletic development. And that's one that it's, it's fallen from number 11, right, last year to 20. So not that youth performance is less important. It's just other things have climbed up above that. Commercial multipurpose gyms. So this is one of those that I found really interesting because, you know, with the pandemic and the shutdown, big, big use facilities have kind of come down a little bit. But now this is an indicator that people are wanting to come back. And it can be very economical to join one of these, one of these bigger facilities. Number 18, outdoor fitness, always in the top, top 20. So that's, you know, get outside, it's free. It's, again, economical, it's free. You know, there's a lot to do outside, especially with other programming. Hot and cold therapies, we've talked about, right? Ice plunges, saunas, steams, thermal therapies, that's, that's on there. But that's one of those that debuted on ACSM's list at 20, but it's climbed up a little bit more. Physical rehabilitation adaptive training. This is one of those that, again, you're going to always need to address those that are coming from less, less than optimal positions as far as strength and conditioning wise. But, you know, it's, it's, it's on there. Certified, employing certified exercise professionals. Again, that's something you need to, as a consumer, always keep in mind, is the person that's there responsible for your health and, and wellness qualified? Are they educated? Are they, have they passed minimum skill levels to work with you? So that's something that needs to be addressed. Chronic disease management. Again, that's, that's a really big one. Again, roughly 60% of the adults in America have at least one chronic condition. So being able to address those specific needs that you have there. Moving up to group fitness classes. Again, this fell off the list in 2019, but like what we said, people are coming back. They're willing to, and wanting to be amongst other people to share the same event, same experience. So we have that. And then we get into high intensity interval training. That's one of those, again, it's always on the list, but it's, it's, it hasn't had the traction it has, but it's still there. Number one in 2014, actually. So now it's at number 12 and then specialized fitness studios or boutique studios. So this is the more intimate, smaller environment where it might be you and a dozen other people doing yoga, Pilates, spin classes, or, or even like personal training studios. So someone who wants that more intimate environment, that's what that one's about. And that is number 11. So as we get into the top 10, we are going to actually look at these a little bit differently. Instead of itemizing them from 10 to one, you can actually look at them as a category when it comes to what these top 10s have in common. So when do you want to start us off with the first batch? Yeah. So instead of going through and reading each one from, like Ken said, from 10, nine, eight, seven, I mean, you guys can look this up. You can find it on acsm.org. They obviously have it. It's found pretty much anywhere. If you just type it into Google, the whole survey will come up. And again, the reason why we do this is because this is the 20th year that they've come out with this. And it is one that a lot of fitness professionals and professionals within our industry, whether they're chiropractors, PTs, personal trainers, it doesn't matter. We all kind of look at this just to make sure that we kind of know the ins and outs and see what the trends are. But I found when I looked at the different combinations of one through 10, if we look at number one, so we're going to go backwards, we're going to start with number one. This is once again, it has been number one for the last couple of years. It's wearable technology, technology, and it's reclaimed its top spot. And, you know, it's really shifting. I think what we're seeing, especially in our industry, is that people really want to know their data. And what they do with it is whatever they do with it. I mean, I have an Oura ring, I wear a Garmin watch, I look at all the different data. And then I compare the two different types of technologies to see, which I feel makes me look better. But then also, too, is there one that seems like it's more accurate? But number one, four and eight. So number four was mobile exercise apps, and number eight was data driven training. And if you look at those as a combination, I mean, it really is like looking at not just tracking the information, like a number eight, when we say data driven training, it's not really just about tracking it, but it's interpreting what that data means. And it's looking now at things like heart rate variability. That's been a big topic. I know we've done podcasts on that via two max, and then it also kind of gives us information on when do we push when we wake up in the morning? Did we have a good night's sleep? Are we recovered in order to go that extra mile and do a harder workout? Or do we need to like maybe take a step back and recover? So I think having just all that technology and the fact that there's three major tech components within the top 10 says a lot about where we're kind of moving forward in a data data driven society, I guess is the easiest way of saying that. Yeah, I know. It is one of those things that when we, you know, you and I wonder, we've talked about this, that when you see a fellow Garmin user, it's like, what's your, what's your, what's your battery level? And you and I joke around about that. It's not about anything else. What's your battery level? I mean, it's like, it's, it's kind of creepy, but it's kind of funny because if you know, you know, right? Right, right. So there's, there's times where I think I got a battery level of a hundred one time. So I woke up and my, I remember when I screenshotted that to you and I said, Wendy, I got, I got a hundred. I slept so good and I'm so well recovered that I've got a hundred on my battery. So I think I sent you mine and it was like 30. But yeah, you're, you're three hours ahead of me. So yours was, yours was already trending down fast. Right. So I don't think it ever really trended up, but yeah. But when we, when we talk about data driven training and I think the thing, thing about that is like, yeah, we're, we're, we're joking around. We, we, we have the information and then, yeah, if, if you've got a, if you've got some information that's telling you, okay, let's, let's work out. Let's, let's have a, let's have a workout. Let's, let's really push it today. That's what that data driven information is about. So that if, again, this is the idea between from tracking to interpreting. So if you've got a good night's sleep, you've got a high battery level, you're recovered, then you know what, why not make that the day you run that extra half mile or try to run that same distance one minute faster versus the day where your battery level is not high, right? It's medium to low. And then maybe that stays like, well, yeah, I am kind of feeling run down and maybe I should make this more like a zone two type of workout. I'm going to keep my heart rate down to 135 and just do a recovery day, you know, 45 minutes on the bike, keeping my, my intensity low to moderate. And this is where, yeah. And I know that, you know, Garmin, they, they do a great job of telling you saying, okay, maybe you should relax, do a mobility workout or do zone two, do something else today. And I'll say that, you know, I've, I've followed what it's told me. And, you know, I have, I have zero complaints in that fact that, you know, when it comes to calming down and taking it easy, I'm never going to complain about that. But then those times when it's like, yeah, you know what I should, I mean, I hate to take, you know, guidance from a computer if I don't have to, but I try to let my, my, you know, tell myself saying, you know what, maybe, you know, I feel good. The numbers are looking good. Yeah. Let's, let's push it today. And, you know, one, one other story I'll say, I'll share is that I've had clients that actually they go by what their watch tells them and they have zero input as far as well. This is what my watch told me. It's like, well, yeah, that's what your watch is telling you, but it's not the end all be all, but it's something to consider. So when you talk about interpreting the data, you have to mix in a little bit of, okay, well, how do you feel and how does that compare to what the watch or whatever you mentioned, aura, Wendy, you can take that information and actually use it. So I think when it comes to these, you know, what, what was landed in the number one, the four and the number eight spot, we are talking about tech, but the one thing I, I, I'd like to tell my clients or people that I talk to about technology is that it's there, it's feedback, but you still have to give it that human factor of, okay, well, how do you feel about working out hard today? Or, or how do you feel about, yeah, why don't, why don't you take a, a kind of more of a recovery day, especially when you haven't taken one in the last 10 to 14 days? Well, and I think too, I mean, we're, we're looking at it, but when you look at those three together, they really do go hand in hand. The data driven is giving you the information. And again, the number one is the wearable technology. So if you're wearing the technology, you're going to get the data that's going to drive you. And if you can't get to the gym too, that's when the mobile apps are going to come in, which was at number four. And I love the mobile apps I use. Obviously NASM has their own app where I can design programs and I'm actually sending it to my clients. And so I think one of those things that they can't get to the gym, they're still connected with me, but we can also communicate. I can look at their programs. I can see if they've done it. So there's an accountability factor that I think too, when you wear tech and you're actually looking at your data, you're holding yourself accountable. And I really love that concept. And so the fact that those three kind of made it on the upper end isn't surprising. And I don't see it going anywhere, especially when number one is reclaimed its spot again. I think we're going to probably see that. My prediction is probably the same in 2027. But one that I wanted to talk about next were number two and number three. They actually went side by side. Number two was the fitness programs for older adults. Now, again, you have to think there's approximately 73 million baby boomers. And there's that concept that we have out there about longevity and act, you know, being active as you're aging. And while we don't really say anti frail, a lot of people are saying that's the new buzzword. I don't usually use the word frail and anything anti even in front of it. But anti frail, it's a thing. And when they say it's a new buzzword, it is kind of more in that population. And I know when I'm getting feedback from my clients that are older, some of them, that's what they say, they want to be anti frail, they want to be able to move better, perform better and still be able to do things at any age, and age not be the factor of why they can't do something anymore. But that number that was number two, number three was exercise for weight management. And that actually had a name change from weight loss to weight management. Because I think, and Ken, I want to get your thoughts on this. When we're thinking about weight management, I think GLP ones are really playing a huge factor in that now. Whether you like them or not, it's becoming more of an essential, especially if you're obese, or you're hitting obesity type levels, or you're, you're becoming a diabetic. I mean, it's out there. And I think that type of, you know, GLP one, I think it's here to stay. Yeah, and that's a, that's a very interesting aspect of it, when, especially when you change the name, right? Loss versus management. Because when you look at the effects that GLP one has had, it's not so much in that you're going to lose weight, you're definitely going to lose weight. And we, we had our resident registered dietitian, Kat Barefield. And when we, when we talked about GLP ones, and what they do, and, and how it affects the body, the, one of the bigger parts, the, the bigger considerations is that not that you're just going to lose fat, but there is a significant amount of weight loss, which is lean body mass. So when you talk about weight management versus weight loss, where people just wanted to lose the pounds, no matter where the pounds came from, now we have a muscle density issue. Because when you look at the, the loss of lean body mass, or fat-free mass and fat mass, you're losing up to 40% of that weight being lean body mass. So here's the thing, the second you get off of that GLP one, or you start to resume your regular diet, or start to eat without that, without that component, then guess what, you've lost muscle, and now you're putting off fat. So the bigger issue now is that, yeah, the scale is going to show a difference, but the, the ramifications are, is that you've lost a lot of muscles with that. So again, Wendy, you and I have talked about, you lose muscle, you're, you're going to lose the stress on the bone. So bone density is going to become an issue. You lose strength, you lose coordination, your ability to do simple things like walk upstairs, the conditioning is going to go away too, because you've lost muscle. So, so with one solution comes another problem. So the, the, the idea of weight loss versus weight management, or again, weight management, we, we, we're going to, we're opening another situation. So I think this is going to affect when we're talking about trends and, and what 2027 might look like is now we have to look at, okay, well, well, now we have to really look at what are we going to do to put on or keep on lean body mass. So when you talk about, again, when GLP one enters the conversation, muscle strengthening, fat-free mass loss is just as much of now, I don't know. There's, there's a big trade-off when it comes to, when it comes to that weight management aspect and how it's climbed so high on the list. Well, and I think that's the importance too. If someone is on GLP ones and you are a personal trainer to emphasize the importance of lifting heavy because of everything that, that can said, plus as they're aging, especially if you're going to combine two and three together with looking at active older adults, and then somebody that is utilizing these types of medications, I don't know what you want to call them, but like some sort of GLP ones. I think it's really important for you to get, take some classes, listen to some of the podcasts. Like again, we've done some, I know Dr. Scott Cheatham has done some great information. NASM has a course on GLP ones because you just need to know, you have to know what you're talking about and having that knowledge of seeing what the good, the bad, the ugly is. You have to be able to find a happy medium because if someone's going to take them because they are getting their diet, you know, they're a diabetic and their numbers are looking really good because that's the whole purpose of a lot of them, or if they're obese and their numbers are really high and they're becoming more streamlined, that's really obviously important for their health as well. So you've got to kind of think, well, GLP ones aren't bad. It's just, you have to think about the maintenance. If somebody's on them, what we can do to ensure that they don't have sarcopenia or some sort of osteopenia or osteoporosis things that it can lead to, if you don't work with those in a smart way. I think too, like when we're looking at the next kind of grouping, what I want to think about the basics, we always talk about, you know, mind and body and flowing and making sure that we're kind of moving as one. You know, I struggle on that part a lot, Ken, because I'm just very focused and I move that way to get going. And then it's kind of a one size fits all type type day. But number five was balance flow and core strength. So if you, especially through NASM, what do we talk about? We really focus a lot on balance and core, but it's the flow between all of it. And I think it's really looking more instead of the way that I wanted to look at it on the strength side, they're looking at it like Pilates. I know Pilates is huge right now, especially in basketball with the WNBA. So Pilates, yoga, bar, those are classes that a lot of players are doing on the side to kind of work hand in hand with their strength programs and what they're doing on the court. I'm sure that that holds true. I know a lot of our NBA guys were doing core. I mean, gosh, yoga, not core. They're doing core too, but they're doing yoga because that's what they're doing for some of their active flexibility days. But that was number five. Number six was exercise for mental health. And number seven was traditional strength training. So think about those in a row because free weights, resistance, that's never going to go away. Traditional strength training will never go away, which I think is fantastic. Where it falls within the top 20, I think that varies. But I mean, we know the importance of it. We just talked about it even with GLP ones. So Ken, I don't know what your thoughts are, but I'm not surprised with any of those. No, I just again, when you when you look at the wearables, the technology, the fact that those are above, you know, because when you we've done this before, we're talking about hit training and all of that. That was number one, right? Those are, you know, top five. Now, top five is core strength and flexibility and balance and flow. And, and I think that the fact that the order, the genre, or the type of information or the type of fitness that's happening and what people are finding important is that's, that's the part that's really interesting about 2026. Because when we did this last year, it, it didn't have that same makeup, although wearables was up there. Apps was up there. But the the the top 10 makeup and the fact that, you know, yeah, like you said, strength training, that's never going to go away. That's, I mean, that's the people in the in the on the selectorized equipment, they're in their free weight area doing their bar work, they're doing their dumbbell work. All right, that's, that's for the masses. That's, that's easy. You pick the weight up, you put it down, it's like the lowest barrier to entry when you when you join it, but when you join a gym, but then the I think the idea of, you know, when we talk about being mentally in tune and being in touch with your feelings and being able to manage stress, especially since, you know, there's a lot of a lot of information, a lot of books written right now about, you know, self improvement and being able to, you know, do what you can to manage your anxiety or depression. And exercise is one of the best things you can do well above taking medicine or drugs to manage your anxiety. If you exercise, not saying I'm not saying don't take your meds and exercise. I am saying that when you do look at some of the research, just getting outside being out, being out under the sun, letting the sun's rays touch your skin and touch your eyeballs and, and taking off your shoes and walking on grass, those, those have a lot of benefits when it comes to improving your mental health. So the fact that mental health as, as a concept in a word made the top 10, I mean, that's very impressive, but it also, it also means that, you know, it's, it's very important for a lot of people. So when you look at who, who actually filled out the survey, this, this is, uh, the survey went out to ACSM's mail list. I don't know how they qualify that, but, and it went out to, to people on their, on their list all throughout the world. But the fact that it's something that has come up, it's top 10 of over 1500, um, people that have filled out the survey. I mean, that, that means a lot in that people are trying to improve their health as well of, as well as their, their mental wellness. So I think, and that's another one, as you said, Wendy, that's, that's here to stay. And I think it's just going to probably oscillate up and down based on what other components of fitness and wellness are going to be on that top 20 list. Yeah. I think that we're, you know, the, we talked about basically one through nine, one of the, well, nine was going to be personal training, which we all know, hopefully is here to stay considering that's, that's how a lot of us make our living. But I thought that what was interesting and they call it the newcomer this year was, and it came in at number 10. So it didn't come in on the top 20. It literally came in for the first time at 10 was adult recreation and sports clubs. And it's really looking at the rise of a social athlete. And we're talking now about basically pickleball, any type of paddle sports and run clubs, things where you're getting more social, people are still wanting to go outside. We all know that pickleball, especially in some of our older adults, they're picking pickleball up for the first time and they're loving it. They're loving it. Now we are seeing an increase in injuries because some people aren't trained to do, to pick up the paddle and actually go and play pickleball because they haven't done anything in years. However, if you are your athlete, meaning that you go out, you walk, you're very social and you're pretty active pickleball and some of these other paddle sports that are available. I mean, we're seeing that stay on the rise. I don't see that one going anywhere anytime soon either. I know people around our community, they're always like, you should play pickleball instead of tennis. I'm not there yet. I'm not really willing to put my tennis racket away, but you talk to Marty and pickleball is the best thing since his avocado toast. So, you know, it's one of those, I think it depends on where you are in your life and what you really enjoy and that's his thing and I'm not there, but I love to be outside and be in my little clubs though. Yeah, I will say that, you know, I started, I've taken on a new client within the last five weeks, four weeks, and he moved with his wife to my area and one of the first things he took on was he took on pickleball. Again, pickleball was the fastest growing sport in America in the last couple of years. So I'll say this, Wendy, one, when it comes to training him, he's coming up with a bunch of, yeah, my neck is bothering him on my shoulders because he's doing something he hasn't done. So to your point, yeah, if you're not conditioned for it, for the agility, the reaching, you're moving your arm fast. So there's a lot of speed and there's power involved. So that's one thing that we've had to work with. But I will say that with him, he's been able to expand his network of friends and his social, he went, he didn't know anybody here. Now I think he knows as many people as I do, just from the pickleball network, because he goes to two different spots, plays pickleball, one indoor, one outdoor, and two different sets of people that he's been able to meet with and have, you know, lunch, just coffee with. And again, he just moved here and he's been able to create for himself a network of, and there's, there's nothing more important than having a good, healthy social network. So whether it's pickleball or with what you do, Wendy, with, with tennis and whatever other sports there are out there, but the social athlete is, is a thing. And this is the, you know, you do your activity and then you go grab a coffee or you meet later for a happy hour or whatever it is. It's just, you have someone to talk to. And if you see them at the grocery store in your local community, you know, that's, you know, that just makes you get more of a part of the, of the community. So I think again, this adult recreation and sports club, that's again, that that's another one that's going to be around just because of how strong it is. And people that have, you know, as you said, that may have done nothing athletically, right, throughout their lives. And now they're doing a sport that they wouldn't have otherwise done, but they're also strengthening their social networks. So I thought when I saw that on the list, I'm surprised it wasn't a little bit higher, but you know, it just came on. So I'm not, I thought it came in pretty high, just considering it had never made, it had never made the list. And I know Ken had gone through in the very beginning from 20 to 11 and listing them. I'm just going to quickly go through 10 to one, cause we just talked about them all. But if you want to know the order again, 10 was the adult recreation and sports club. Nine was the personal training, data-driven training technology was eight. Traditional strength training is seven. Exercise for mental health was next. And then we've got balance flow and core strength, mobile exercise apps that came in again at number four, exercise and weight management at three, fitness programs for older adults at two and I'm sorry. Yeah. Two and number one wearable technology. So Ken, I know we usually go through these trends. We do this every year. I think it's super important to our listeners, especially if you're not really even in the industry, you just know what's trending. And if you're looking for something to spice up your workout or spice up your routines and you want to kind of see what everybody else is doing and what people are really enjoying that maybe you haven't considered. I think sometimes looking at these trends or even discussing them can actually maybe trigger something that maybe you didn't think about before or you didn't even know was available to you. So, so I really enjoy when we do these. Yeah. Yeah. I, and nothing like a top 20 list to kind of give you like, Hmm, that's something to think about, which is not our top 20. It's like, this is a big deal. And they've done this for 20 years, y'all. This isn't the first time that they've done this. And it's, I think they're going to continue to do it because I mean, we even have classes in, in, in our university. We actually do talk about the reports every year. Yep. And it's, it's, it's important because, you know, if it's interesting to one person, chances are it's interesting to, it might be interesting to you is what I'm saying. So, so Wendy, thanks for your insight. I always love talking about what's, what's happening and what your thoughts are on that. So for those of you listening to both Wendy Batts and I, Ken Miller here on Random Fit, hopefully you enjoyed this episode on the ACSM 2026 worldwide fitness trends, and hopefully you can form some opinion for yourself or actually, you know, do a little web search on what one of these top 20s is happening in your area and go check it out. So if you like what you heard from us, like, follow, subscribe, download, share, and give us a five out of five rating if, and when you can, but until next time, everybody take care and be well. That's it for Random Fit. Wendy and Ken will be back with more fitness fun. Until then, keep moving and stay curious. Like, share, and subscribe.