 Hey, pyrgid, Hey, what's up, guys? It's Andre here with the NA-ASM Peak Physique podcast. GLP-1 drugs like ozempic and Trisepatide are everywhere right now, including the bodybuilding world. They're helping athletes drop body fat faster than ever. But what happens when you come off? Well, for you today, we're going to be talking about that post-GLP rebuild, metabolism, muscle retention, appetite rebound, and so much more. Be sure to stay tuned. And I want you guys to like, share and subscribe. Let's get into it. to it. Welcome to the Peak Physique Podcast, hosted by IFBB Olympian and NASM Master Trainer Andre Adams. This show delivers elite strategies and cutting-edge techniques to build your best body yet. Hey, what's up, guys? Welcome back to the NASM Peak Physique Podcast. I'm your host, Andre Adams, NASM Master Trainer and IFBB Physique Olympian. On today's episode, we're breaking down post-GLP rebuilds for bodybuilders. So everyone's familiar by now with some of the trending terms like GLPs and all of the therapies that fall into that category like ozempic and Trisepetide, which have been helping people get shredded faster than ever. But there's one big caveat, right? Those come with a cost. And when coming off of those medications, they can truly wreck your appetite, you know, set you up for issues with leptin and ghrelin. And then obviously, there's a big risk of muscle wasting, right? So lack of muscle retention. So that's what we're going to break down today, right? Exactly what happens after GLPs are implemented and how to rebuild your body for physique athletes. So let's take it back to the beginning in GLPs and talk about why they kind of rose to fame or popularity within the bodybuilding community. But more importantly, where did they start? So GLP-1 drugs, right? We'll just call them GLP because as we'll get into in a moment, there's, you know, dual action, triple action, et cetera. But think of those medications like ozempic, Wacovi, Trisepetide, those magic, I can't even call them magic pills because they're, you know, oftentimes injectable. But why did those explode in popularity in the general population? Well, again, everyone, I think, tends to want to take a shortcut, right? So instead of grounding themselves maybe in diet and training first, people tend to lean into medication first approach, which can be, you know, it can come with some extra complications, we'll call it. But that's where this really started as, right? And it was really developed originally for people with type 2 diabetes. So not even thinking about athletes at that point, right? Obesity control, people with type 2 diabetes, and then widely adopted later on by the physique and bodybuilding community. And we'll expand that by the biohacking community in general, because of the fat loss and the appetite control benefits, right? So as with many, many medications, and a lot of supplementation that is commonly used in bodybuilding today, most of these started as medical therapies to treat chronic conditions or very specific issues within the body. But some of those tradeoffs and those side effects actually are favorable for things like weight loss in this scenario and body count. So GLPs, right, they work for fat loss and appetite control, as we're well aware. And the question we want to answer today really is what happens after you stop. We're going to break down some of the benefits on muscle loss tradeoffs, which again, is a very big risk for muscle wasting and catabolism, metabolic rebuild, so post-GOP therapy, post-competition season, whatever it might be. And then I want to point out some risk factors for who should avoid GLP therapies in general, as well as some long-term appetite signaling and other issues that need to be addressed. All right. So now that we kind of talked about the history of GLPs, right, general population, trending into bodybuilding because of those side effects, they're actually favorable. Let's take that a little bit further and talk about the mechanisms. So we'll start with probably the most common one, right? The original one, which was ozempic, semaglutide, rose to popularity a few years back. And that one is going to mimic glucagon-like peptide one, right? Glucagon peptide one regulates appetite and satiety. So that's where you're getting that benefit of, you know, especially if you struggle with wanting to overeat, you're ravenous, you have really strong hunger cues. That can be a problem for anyone trying to lose weight, but especially when we're trying to do a more aggressive cut and get ourselves into, you know, lean stage conditioning for a bodybuilding show. So that's one of the main mechanisms that also works by slowing a gastric emptying, right? And it slows the assimilation rate primarily of uptake of carbohydrates. Then you've got another class, right? So that was GLP ones. If we go up another class, we have GLP two. So then we've got things like trizepatide in that category and even GLP threes, which are more popular over these past 12 months or so with therapies such as retitrutide, right? And again, each of these has different pros and cons. I can kind of compare and contrast also because as people are discussing with their medical practitioners, what could be the best therapy for them to explore? We'll talk about what some of those drivers are for each specific need. But, you know, retitrutide, for example, it's got that additional anti-inflammatory component and that third pillar being the glucagon control component. So there's, you know, many different options when we're talking about GLPs. And then, you know, also your body produces a natural, you know, GLP in the gut, right? So it's important to start with the foundation of optimizing your gut health, probably before you even get into any supplementation. All right. So again, thinking about the mechanisms of action for GLPs, really, I like to remind people that it does have a slowed gastric emptying effect. That's going to increase fullness signals to the brain. It's going to improve blood glucose control, right? It's going to improve insulin sensitivity, but you have to use that with caution. This is where it becomes very individualized based on the person. If you're already taking things that are slowing or impacting gastric emptying, let's say you have a high fat diet, let's say that you are taking metformin therapy or over-the-counter berberine or GDA, glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent. All of these things have similar mechanisms of action and have a slowing effect on the gastric. So this could be something where you have to be conscious of what you're already taking and then what you're actually trying to accomplish, or you don't want to overdo it. You know, you could also, you also have to factor in if you're taking digestive bitters, enzymes, or anything that's really giving you mixed signaling to the gut. Now, clinical data is going to show about 15 to 20% body weight loss in trials, right? There's plenty of data on GLPs at this point. Some of glutide is around 15%, GLP-1, trisepatide being a GLP2, a little bit more aggressive. You can get up to 22% body weight loss. But what about the body comp, right? When we're talking bodybuilding and physique, especially even more important to consider the effects on total body composition. So benefits for athlete, again, we get the easier diet adherence, less appetite, unless you struggle with appetite. So that's going to be one of the risks we'll talk about later. But overall, less, we'll call it reduced food noise, and then improves insulin sensitivity. But again, that big trade-off being the potential for muscle wasting. So when we talk about 15 to 22%, potentially higher amounts of body weight loss, once we get into GLP3s, we got to ask ourselves how much of that 22% is muscle versus fat. And that's where the importance comes in resistance training, hypertrophy training, very strategic nutrition, especially if you are working out, we want to make sure we're getting adequate amounts of protein and amino acids in the muscle. We're getting proper insulin signaling pre-intra and post-workout, and all the things that we have to do to make sure that we are optimizing metabolism and not muscle wasting, right? Because then it becomes counterproductive. All right, so the hidden costs. Let's dive a little deeper into muscle loss, muscle wasting, muscle catabolism, whatever you'd like to call it today. Studies suggest 30 to 40% of weight loss with GLPs can be, are you ready for this? Lean mass. That's a terrifying thought for a bodybuilder. 30 to 40% of your weight loss could be lean mass. So this is, again, it's the main thing that I want to stress here. All these therapies can be highly effective when managed properly with adequate diet and training. But if you're not careful, you could be sacrificing 30 to 40% of that weight loss as lean mass. And let's think about it for a minute, right? So when we think about fat to muscle ratio, it's exactly that. It's a ratio. So if you are a 200-pound person at 18% body fat and you lose 20 pounds, well, it's possible to lose 20 pounds and still be at 18% body fat, right? Because it's a relative ratio. So we've got to make sure that we're retaining or even building muscle as we're dialing into a contest. But at the same time, making sure that the weight lost is coming more specifically from body fat, right? We're willing to trade a very small amount of muscle at times to get the conditioning where it needs to go. But overall, we want to retain as much muscle as possible so that your physique has that depth, that fullness, and that pop when you get on stage. All right. So for physique athletes, again, the cost there, reduced muscle density, potentially flattening your physique out, which leads to reduced muscle fullness and just a lesser overall stage look, right? So that's going to be something that's of very high importance to bodybuilders. And we can also maybe delineate a bit between enhanced versus natural, right? For enhanced athletes, obviously there's higher anabolic signaling, there's going to be more muscle nitrogen, therefore there's going to be more muscle fullness. You know, that is going to be a little bit easier to hold the fullness or bring it back down the stretch versus natural athletes, which have to be extra, extra cautious not to flatten their physique out because it's not like an overnight fix. You know, generally, if you're on some of these therapies, they have a very long active half-life, seven to 14 days. So if you are having trouble filling out on peak week and you're three days out, it's going to be a little bit too late to, you know, try and backtrack and pull something out and chase conditioning and chase fullness last minute. So you got to understand your physique and the risks, understand the mechanisms of action, and then plan your timeline to pull these therapies out as you get closer, you know, to your show day. So the causes for that reduced muscle fullness or that flattening is really going to be indirect in some cases with a little bit of direct signaling. Some of the indirect things would be things like reduced protein intake, right? You're going to have very low caloric intake for one, because you're dieting into a show, but for two, because you're also just getting less hunger cues, right? So when you have that lower intake, especially think of the end of a prep, right? Those last two to four weeks heading into a show, uh, you've trained, you're trying to squeeze that last 1% of body fat off your training intensity. As much as we love to, you know, try and mentally stay in it as much as we can, your training intensity will decrease. It's just a matter of less recovery. Uh, you don't have as much fuel to really drive and push your hardest through those workouts. You're just trying to survive each workout. So again, reduced appetite, reduced, uh, training fuel, reduced recovery. A lot of those things are going to lead to muscle flattening and it's a snowball effect because you guys got to remember everything's connected. So it's not just about what we're eating, but it's also about our central nervous system, our ability to recover and our ability to reduce fatigue. So these therapies could be just exacerbating, uh, you know, these kinds of prep induced issues that we're, we're dealing with. So, you know, when you're approaching overreach, for example, uh, you might be holding a lot of extra inflammation. You're chronically sores. You got a lot of DOM, late onset muscle soreness, and you're just not able to really recover fully. And what happens is you end up holding a film of water. Um, you know, if let's take our female competitors, if you're a bikini competitor, a lot of times you'll hold that around the tie-ins around the outer thighs. And it's really hard to drop that. So when we're adding in these, uh, GLP therapies, that could just be exacerbating, uh, the issue, right? When you're already just under recovered. So just keep that in mind. It's not just medication. It's not just your diet. It's, it's not just your training. It's all of these things combined, right? So again, muscle, uh, glycogen is the main driver for fullness as we should all be aware by now. And some of the reason that muscles respond slower, right? When we're taking GLPs, in addition to being in a diet is not just the slowed gastric emptying, but you got to remember as a result of that, we are also blunting some of the insulin signaling, right? So let's take someone who's not using any therapies for this post-workout they have, or even intra-workout, they might have a very fast digesting carbohydrate, right? We might have something like first form ignition. You might have carbolin, um, something like a carb powder that's going to give you a nice glucose and insulin spike, right? insulin being that signaling hormone, it's going to signal to the muscle receptors to open up and start pulling in those amino acids and essential nutrients from the bloodstream. Now, if you think about that scenario, and now we've slowed gastric emptying that insulin spike, and technically that muscle protein synthesis spike is not going to be as great, right? It's not going to be as sharp or steep. And so we flatten that curve out a little bit. Now that's great for weight management and weight loss, but if you're struggling to fill out, you might have to rethink your timing, your dosage, or your therapies. And so this is where we got to be really strategic with the individual because of that slower delivery of glycogen to the muscles, right? So lower insulin spikes mean less fullness. Now, if you're prone to holding body fat, especially visceral fat, you might want those lower insulin spikes, right? Because the more you spike insulin throughout the day, it is also a holding hormone. And so if we're spiking it, you know, too frequently or at non-optimal times, we're not going to get the proper nutrient partitioning we're looking for. And you might store that as body fat instead of pushing it into glycogen in the muscles, right? So that's my caution there is just when we're talking muscle glycogen, just remember if we over slow gastric emptying too much with too many supplements, you're going to get less post-workout super compensation when you do add those carbs in. Now, if your goal is full depletion, right? You're fully trying to exhaust and deplete the body, you're trying to deplete the muscles, really tap into that last little bit of body fat, then that could be a good thing. But if you're having trouble filling out down the stretch and you're already near stage lean, you might want to start modifying your approach to allow your body to achieve that super compensation and fill back out. We just saw that actually in this past weekend at the Arnold Classic. So for you guys that watched the Arnold in 2026, there was quite a few top athletes that missed their peak simply because they couldn't fill out on time. And I suspect this might be the case. All right. So post-GLP metabolic rebuild. We talked about some of the risks, some of the benefits. Now let's talk about how to rebuild that, right? So post-competition, after discontinuation, your appetite often rebounds very strongly. So this is where you've got to be on it, right? It's not just like a mental thing. There's some physiological changes happening within your body. Leptin resistance is going to be one of the biggest ones because remember, as we teach in our PBC program, post-competition prep, your body is not set up to grow. Your body is actually primed for fat gain. You have insulin resistance, leptin resistance, down regulation of thyroid hormones, down regulation of your metabolism. So again, we've got to be very cautious as we start to slowly reverse out, or if you're doing another show, as we start to bridge and then set you up for a successful second peak. And so leptin resistance is going to be one of the big drivers responsible for the strong appetite rebounds once we pull GLPs out. And you got to remember, ghrelin also increases while metabolism may still be suppressed. So your hunger hormone is starting to ramp up and you can feel very ravenous and your metabolism can't keep up just yet, right? Because we haven't done any metabolic building yet. That's a process in itself. So the strategy there is a controlled reverse diet or bridge diet, depending if you're shifting into an off-season slash improvement phase, we'll call it, or if you're bridging and then re-prepping for the next show, right? So if we're going into a controlled reverse diet, typically you'll see values in that kind of plus 150 to 200 calories per day. And we might bump that every second or third week, depending on progress. We want a nice controlled reverse, just like how we got into show shape. We want to control it coming out. And that's also going to help you manage your hunger and avoid rebounding with a bunch of excessive body fat storage. So prioritize proteins, you know, try to get in at least one to 1.2 grams per pound of body weight coming out of your shell. And remember, part of that is we need that to build muscle, obviously, but proteins and even healthy fats, even fibers from vegetables, those things do assimilate a little bit slower and they allow your body to feel a little bit more full, right? So more satiety for a little bit longer. So we want to make sure that we keep that floor of one to 1.2 grams per pound body weight protein. And then I like to start slowly bringing up some healthy fats, especially important for our females when we're talking hormone signaling and restoring the HPA, HPO axis, right? Trying to get the mentee cycle regulated. So these are going to be very important things. And then reassess based on your goals and based on the rate of growth, how much you need to bump those calories every second or third week. You're slowly going to start rebuilding training intensity with compound lifts, do some progressive overloading, do some training intensifiers. Now that your strength is coming back, right? You've got more fuel to push yourself through those workouts. And then as we're going through this process over the subsequent weeks, we're naturally going to start restoring insulin and leptin sensitivity. That's going to be essentially essential, excuse me, for a successful improvement phase or even next show. And we can support that as well, again, by adding those carbohydrates in and we're talking clean carbs. So when I say carbs, all carbs are not created equal. We're not talking a cup of sugar. We're talking a cup of rice, right? So we want to make sure that there's still clean food, but we're giving that safety signaling. We're replenishing glycogen. It allows our CNS, central nervous system to calm down and drop inflammation and grow, right? So that's our goal post-shell, post-GLP rebuild. And then we'll start to slowly increase your training volume from there. Now, other really good adders that I would highly recommend, we also recommend this in our HTMA mineral balancing programs. It's going to be adding things like GDA, glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent. That's going to have a host of ingredients that are excellent for insulin sensitivity, including berberine, 500 milligrams. It's going to have ALA in there and a few other things. Again, so you're getting some of the slower gastric emptying benefits without fully suppressing your appetite. You're getting some of the insulin sensitivity benefits. So even, you know, other therapies, other supplements like myo-inocidol and similar. And then chromium picolinate. When we do our mineral balancing, that's usually the first mineral that we check to see what that athlete's level of insulin resistance looks like. And so make sure that, you know, if you're not doing that yet, especially important coming out of a post-GLP rebuild, that we get in anywhere from 200 to 600 milligrams of chromium, depending on what's optimal for that specific individual. So we want to keep that insulin sensitivity good and high and set you up for a successful rebuild. So let's recap muscle versus aesthetic trade-offs. And we're talking GLP-1s, GLP-2s, and 3s. GLPs can produce faster fat loss and definitely smaller waistlines. And I want to touch on that for a moment too, because when you're thinking about taking a GLP, and let's say you're having that conversation with the doc, you don't know which one's right for you. I like to start the conversation here. If it's your first introduction to GLPs, and you're just trying to take the edge off of hunger, you know, maybe get a little assistance with weight loss in the early stages there, probably going to want to start with the GLP-1. So semaglutide, ozempic, probably the most common. That's actually a good proxy to see how your body responds. You know, some people will experience nausea. That's very, very common, especially with anything that affects your glucose. And so usually with all of these therapies, the doctors will start those, you know, the actual dosage is very conservative for, let's take semaglutide, it's going to be like 0.25 milligram, one time a week, subcutaneous injection. And then every third or fourth week, based on, you know, the need for the individual, they may recommend titrating that up in 0.5 milligram increments until they cap at, you know, an optimal amount. Now that's going to look different for each of these GLPs, but that's always a good bet. Now, if you are experienced, or you need something more aggressive, then you might be having a conversation with your doctor about dual GLP, like trisepatide, or latest and greatest with ritrutatide. So, you know, things that I would kind of caution there is if it's the primary driver is mainly, let's say, weight loss, then either of those are going to be great therapies. If the primary driver is appetite control, you're going to want to go likely with trisepatide, which has a little bit stronger appetite suppressing effect. If it's visceral fat reduction, and, you know, just good all around blend of, you know, these benefits, probably retrutatide, retrutatide, excuse me, because that one's going to have a little bit better anti-inflammatory component, a little bit less aggressive appetite suppressant. So again, there's different medications that can be discussed for different needs, different goals, but that's where I usually like to start the conversation. And, you know, retrutatide, for example, smaller waistlines, that one is going to help reduce visceral fat a little bit stronger than some of the others. So again, just kind of guiding based on that decision tree into the needs for that specific athlete. They may, you know, reduce muscle roundness and fullness in some athletes, if nutrition and training are not managed. And again, that really comes down to just avoiding muscle wasting, avoiding muscle catabolism and muscle loss as you're going through that weight loss journey. Part of that is keeping your hypertrophy training in place. Most people, and I think it's more diet driven than supplement driven, we start to hit overreach. We start to feel fatigued. We start to approach burnout down the stretch. We just don't have a lot of energy. So it's more natural in the gym to start to lighten up the weights. You know, you also don't want to necessarily risk getting injured going into a show. And I think one of the biggest mistakes athletes make is they reduce their training intensity too much. So let's just take a barbell squat or a leg press, for example. Let's say that at the beginning of prep, 12 to 16 weeks out, you're squatting 300 pounds and, you know, eight weeks out, you're squatting 280 pounds and you get down to that three to four weeks out and you've dropped that 300 pounds all the way down to 180 pounds for high reps. And you start to increase your volume, right? Not that that's a horrible strategy. However, when we're talking GLPs, we're talking about maintaining muscle fullness and size and density. You got to try and stick with weights that are similar to where you started at in prep. It's going to be a hard thing to do, right? When energy is low, it's hard to mentally will yourself to move that kind of weight because again, fuel is just low in general. But when you frontload your carbohydrates, try to time them around your workouts to fuel your training. Try to go to that dark place. Try to push yourself, even if you're still, you know, in that 85 to 90% range of where you started prep. That's going to help you really, really hold onto that level of muscle fullness and roundness that you need when you get on stage. Bodybuilding requires fat loss, but muscle preservation is the key. And remember, when you're doing your check-ins week over week, it's not just the scale weight, right? It is the body composition because you could lose 10 pounds, but it's going to look vastly different if two pounds is muscle, eight pounds is fat versus eight pounds is muscle, two pounds is fat. So keep that in mind. The scale is good for directional trends over a longer period of time, but ultimately it comes down to aesthetics and body composition. With that, I want to talk about who should avoid GOPs. There are some individuals that might just want to avoid GOP therapies altogether, right? So that could be people that are already underweight or already very, very lean. And in addition to very lean, I'll take it one step further and say athletes that are prone to flattening. So if your biggest struggle, your biggest feedback, every show is you need to come in fuller. You probably shouldn't be taking GLPs. That's probably part of the issue contributing to not coming in fuller. If you're a female struggling to get fuller down the stretch, if you are doing anything to suppress or speed up estrogen metabolism and clearance, you know, again, it's a balance, right? Too much estrogen is going to attack those estrogen receptor sites like the visceral, right? Low abs, the hips, thighs, the glutes, and it's going to make you retain extracellular water and fat. However, if your estrogen is too low, remember you lose your protection against androgens. It's going to severely impact your mood, your quality of your hair, skin, nails, libido, everything. But more importantly for the physique athlete, it's going to flatten your physique out. So if your feedback is, hey, you need to really fill out and you're struggling to really come in as full and tight as you should be, it could be that you're layering too many things together like estrogen inhibitors, layered on top of GLPs, layered on top of GDA, layered on top of fat burners, and again, increased glycogen turnover, low estrogen, and GLPs with slowed gastric emptying. You're going to be chasing fullness all season long. So those are things that I want you guys to be thinking about, right? Other people that should avoid GLPs, individuals with history of eating disorders or just no appetite in general. When we're talking about behavioral eating disorders in general, and I see this a lot, I've got it quite a few times as a coach. You guys should really be avoiding bodybuilding at that time, right? Because it's like having relationship issues with your significant other and then you think getting married is going to solve the problem, but it only makes it worse, right? And so I want you guys to understand that if you have a behavioral eating problem, disorder we'll call it, you should be addressing that separately and first, right? Make that your main focus and priority, improve your relationship with food. And then once you've got that under control, right? And you feel like you're in a really good spot, then maybe start thinking about doing a transformation or a prep, but don't tackle those both at once. You know, break those apart. All right. People with risk factors. There's going to be like chronic disease issues that, you know, we probably just want to stray away from altogether. So again, originally developed for type two diabetes, but if you've got any other chronic issue that affects metabolism, we'll call it metabolic pathways, insulin regulation, glucose regulation, digestive issues, pancreas issues, those type of issues should be discussed in depth with your doctors before you decide to, you know, explore something like GLPs. And then of course, athletes that are already in extreme contest prep body fat ranges. So we talked about just general population that are already very lean to begin with, not a good fit. Works similarly with athletes that are already in or near contest prep conditioning. However, there's one caveat that I'll put in there, right? That one caveat is if your main struggle on prep is appetite and you feel like you're going to eat the house down because you can't control your appetite, then that could be a scenario where you're having that conversation and starting to think about GLP one and low dose just for the, you know, mild to moderate appetite suppressant benefits. But long-term appetite signaling, let's just leave you guys with this, right? A little bit of real talk here. So GLPs do suppress ghrelin and they alter gut brain appetite signaling. That's a big one, right? So we got to be very careful as a result of that to avoid that ghrelin rebound that we talked about, right? So GLPs suppress ghrelin and alter gut brain appetite signaling. Long-term users sometimes report hunger dysregulation after stopping usage. And again, it's, this is real. I've actually worked with plenty of athletes that feel that ghrelin rebound and they are ravenous and it's, you know, most people think, well, you're a bodybuilder, you've got excellent discipline already. How hard can it be? Let me tell you, when you have some physiological things happening in your body that are telling you you're hungry, it's a dangerous place to be as a bodybuilder because we can eat. So that's something you guys got to be very, very careful of again. And it's more specific to people that are maybe coming off of GLP therapy that have been on it for a very long time. So that rebuild that we talked about a little bit earlier on this episode, that's going to be even more important if you have been on those therapies for several months and in some cases, several years, right? And then coaches, for all you coaches out there, we've got to emphasize rebuilding normal hunger cues and metabolic health. It is our job. It is our duty to our athletes to reinforce these things. So the athletes, you know, don't be dismissive or brush them off when you get that check-in post-show and they're like, hey coach, I'm, I'm starving. Like, yeah, hey, we increased my food 500 calories a day post-show, but I feel like I'm completely ravenous. I can't control my appetite. I feel like I might binge eat. Those are, those are red flags, right? So we got to address those and reinforce a controlled reverse diet, make those adjustments as needed. Start bringing those clean carbs up, feather in some extra healthy fats, double up on, you know, some low FODMAP veggies, things that won't cause bloating or fermenting in the gut, but help with fullness, right? Try to slow gastric emptying a little bit. And so there's, again, a lot of things that coaches have to reinforce with athletes. And we should be thinking that direction before we even get to the end of a prep, right? And we want to set them up for success. So with that, we'll get into some closing takeaways. I want you guys to get the pens out, write them down, because again, these are some of the most common therapies you're going to hear about over and over and over. And as you're having those discussions with your, you know, your primary care physician, your coach, whoever might be, I want you to remember these key takeaways. GLPs can be effective tools for fat loss and appetite control. Undoubtedly, right? There's plenty of evidence out there. In fact, in this episode, we're going to drop some references and citations to some really good articles, case studies, and white papers for you guys to explore. The real challenge is maintaining metabolism, you know, and muscle, we'll say it's not just metabolism, but maintaining metabolism and muscle, especially after discontinuation, right? That's going to be the hardest challenge is we've got to reprogram your body to make sure that we set you up for long-term success after your competition. Successful athletes focus on rebuilding metabolism, protecting muscles, and restoring appetite control. All of those are going to be essential for setting you up to have a successful improvement phase, off-season, or next show. So remember to ground yourself in that, expect it. Don't just try to, you know, drop your GOPs and then, you know, just try to tough it out, guys. You actually want to have a plan for anything, even coming out of a show. If you're taking zero supplements, but you've been dieting down, dieting down, and, you know, you did one or two shows, and now it's time to grow, just naturally, again, down regulation of metabolism, and you're still going to have that same leptin and insulin resistance issue to overcome. So just make sure you have a plan. You've got your reverse diet in check, and slow and steady is going to win the race. So guys, that's all I've got for you today on GOPs. Hopefully you learned something new, and I imagine in the next few months, I'm sure there'll be new therapies and new things to talk about. So I want to keep this conversation going soon. In the meantime, you guys know where to find me. You can catch me on Instagram at andreadams underscore official. You can find me online at teamadamsprep.com. And you can email me if you guys got show episode recommendations. If you got questions for me, hit me up at trainingbydre at gmail.com. And in the meantime, if you got some value out of this, we would love your support in sharing this episode with at least one friend. And of course, be sure to like and subscribe. All right, guys, thanks for tuning in to the NASM Peak Physique podcast. We'll see you guys next time. Thanks for tuning in to the Peak Physique podcast. Subscribe for elite strategies and cutting edge insights from IFBB Olympian Andre Adams.