 price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price price do all the fun things on our shows, and we hope you enjoy what we talk about. Welcome to Random Fit. Wendy Batts and Ken Miller dive into fitness talk that's anything but ordinary. From the classics to the quirky. Proud winner of a Goldmark Comm Award. Hello, everyone. Welcome to Random Fit. I am Wendy Batts here with Ken Miller. Ken, how's it going? Things are great, Wendy. How are you doing? I can't complain. Another day in paradise, if you will. In today's topic, we are actually talking about the crafting, if you will, the perfect home gym for you. And I was saying it's beyond the barbell, if you want to look at the actual title, because Ken, I actually had a client that probably could easily buy any and everything he wanted and not even make a dent in his bank account, if you will. And he's like, Wendy, I need you to help me with my home gym. And, you know, some of the questions that I asked him, I think he was shockingly surprised. Because most of the time, if you've got the means, people are like, you need to buy this and this and this and this and this. And instead of just rattling off all of these things, we had a really intense and deep conversation. So therefore, we bought exactly what he needed, not what I knew he could afford. Right. And I have that same conversation, actually, with any new client that I have, I have that same conversation. Now, not all of them have the means to buy whatever they want. And not all of them have the space, even if they did have the money, not a lot of them have the space that they need to fit, even if they wanted these things to put them in there. So I mean, I think this is going to be a great episode, because hopefully, we'll give you guys some ideas on how to outfit your home with something that you're going to use a lot, right? Because the last thing we want to do, Wendy, right, is to tell people to buy this and this and this equipment. And then the next thing you know, it's either in a closet or in a corner, gathering dust. So I think when it comes to this episode, and basically creating your, and I think the operative word here, Wendy, is your perfect home fitness space, because everybody's got different goals, different needs, right, different space, different budgets. And hopefully, we can share some insights on how you can, if you don't have something already, how you can fashion something that's going to help you stay on track when it comes to your fitness. Well, and I think, you know, one of the questions you can ask is why before you buy, right? And unfortunately, some of that equipment that you're talking about that's gathering dust is in my home gym, if you will, because it was the newest thing at the time. And it would be really cool to try this out. And, and we end up doing my husband and I both are in the industry. So we end up buying a lot of different things, because we want to see is it versatile? Is it something that we would suggest or highly recommend to a client or somebody that's asking us a question. So it's very interesting, because that's kind of our take on it. Like, I want to try it, I want to see what it's like, I want to feel it, use it and see if it's basically what's being advertised. Or is it something that I personally did not like or think that would be beneficial. So to your point, when you say, you know, what, what is it that you have this conversation with your clients, one of the things that I have said this on multiple podcasts, one of the things that's mandatory for my clients to actually purchase in order to work with me is that I want them to have a foam roller. And obviously, we meaning, Ken, myself, anyone that is NASM certified, we have partnerships with Hyperice. We also have partnerships with Therabody. But I find it to be something that's extremely important, because everything that I'm going to do with them after the assessment is going to begin with a foam roller. And so no matter what the space is, or anything like that, I just say that this is one thing that is highly suggested and very much recommended in order for them to be successful with me as a trainer. Ken, I don't know if you also have that conversation before we even get into the equipment. But I pretty much mandate it. Yeah. And ironically enough, again, you get you get those clients to that are maybe rehab or post rehab. So nine times out of 10, when I asked when I tell them, okay, this is what we're gonna do, we're gonna learn how to stretch, do some core balance, plyometrics and some maybe bodyweight exercises or calisthenics. So foam roller, as far as equipment pieces, is basically top of the list. And relatively speaking, they take a very little space, right? Unless you have the three foot long one, right? And that takes a little bit more space. But a foam roller is easy to put away goes under the bed and the closet. And the core in the room kind of hides with other equipment if you have other equipment. But that would be the first on the list of pieces of equipment somebody would invest in. And you can get it as, you know, the pressed foam, you know, anywhere from $8 to 12, if you're gonna get something like a trigger point grid, which is gonna be up with $40. Or if like you mentioned, Wendy, hyper ice with the Viper, that's gonna be $150, $200. So for the space, it's they're not gonna, they're not that much different in dimensions. But depending on what you're going for, and you know, do you want something that's economical? Or do you want the Cadillac of foam rollers? That would be the Viper. So it depends. Again, that's where budget plays plays a role in it all. But space wise, it's, you know, it takes up the same amount of space. Well, and I think that that was going to be kind of the first question, I kind of jumped into like something that was mandated that I not mandated, you know, really wanted them felt very strongly that they purchased it, it could be any of those that you mentioned. But I think a lot of the times we start to rattle off, which is exactly what I just did on these are the things that you just are must haps. But I think to your point, Ken, what is your budget? And what is the space? So yes, with this particular client that I started the episode talking about, I think it was one of those things that means was not the factor. And he had an entire room where he could have bought every type of machine, if you will. And he could have gone around in the circuit, just like he would if he wanted to go to the gym. The big thing is, is he did not want to go to the gym, because he gets bothered when he goes to the gym, he wants to stay within his home, and do his own workout without having to leave, which I totally understand. But it was interesting, because I said, well, what's your budget for this? And he was like, and kind of looked at me, because I think that's important. And even though you have the means, everybody has a budget, they have a number in mind. And then you can say, okay, these are the things based on the assessments, the goals, just like you said, Ken, what is it that they're going to be doing? But if you have a budget, and you only want them to have certain pieces of equipment, you can look at the higher quality pieces of equipment that's going to last them longer, but it's also going to be more upfront. So to your point, if someone has a very low budget, but you know that they need a few different things, you may start them with the press foam foam roller, or somebody that is maybe has a higher number in mind, you could then purchase, like you said, the foam roller that has the vibration or something that's going to last them for a really long time. So I think, you know, finding out the budget and space is going to be crucial. But then at that point, when you start building on, you can be like, okay, these are some brands that I suggest based on where we are, and then you can help them stay within that budget. Yeah. And I think when it comes to the budget, that's, that that is a that is a big factor for a lot of people, especially these days, right? You know, prices now are not what they were five years ago, or even two years ago. So when you're trying to, I guess, when you look at your fitness budget, and if someone's coming to me, they're spending a certain amount of money for my services. Anyway, so again, if there's any once a week, twice a week, that's, that's going to be a line item for their monthly budget. But then if they're going to create, and look at what their finances will allow again, if the space is not an issue, then we can, we'll actually go over some line items, some some important things that we'll go over in a little bit. But like you said, there's a difference between $12 and $200. And there's a bit huge difference in what you get. I mean, you're going to feel the difference. But I also think that going back to, you know, the question, you know, what, what is your perfect gym? So if someone is looking at just general fitness, foam roller is just an idea. It's just one component that's going to help somebody who's looking to improve flexibility and mobility. And I'm sure people have said that to you, Wendy, as far as, well, I just want to be more mobile, I want to be more flexible, or even those clients that say, I want to jump higher, I want to run farther, I want to run faster, I want to lift heavier. Foam rolling is a component of what it takes for all of those goals to happen. So investing in something that's going to last you a long time, that's going to be used once, twice a day, maybe. But also consider that if there's other members of your household, that's also going to use the same piece of equipment, I would rather kind of upgrade, if I could go to the higher end, because if it's going to get a lot of use, you don't want something that's going to start breaking down after a month, right? Nothing wrong with press foam rolls, they're actually pretty durable. But if it's got me on there, who's 200 plus pounds, it's got my, my wife and my kids using it multiple times a day, I would rather have something that's going to be, you know, it's going to be able to stand the test of time. But also, you think something that's going to get used from multiple members of the household, that's not just wear and tear on it, but also from the wear and tear standpoint, that it's also going to get sprayed down and cleaned more often than if you just use it yourself. So I think that's the other, the maintenance is another part that goes into budget when it comes to what investments you should make. Well, and it's interesting that you said that, and I kind of giggle was because I had a football player that weighed significantly, way more than 200 pounds. And, you know, he was, we were having a conversation actually about foam rolling. And he's like, I just, I just cannot foam roll. And I was like thinking, well, it's because it's too tender for him, or he was having some issues. And when he was introduced to the foam roller, it wasn't here are your options for foam rolling. He actually said, okay, I'll go and purchase a foam roller. And this is now again, this is a while back when now everybody knows what the different types of foam rollers are. So imagine when this is still kind of new, he goes out and buys the white foam rollers and those are the softest type of foam rollers that you can buy. And imagine this lineman trying to foam roll his piriformis. So the side of the outer hip, so he's putting his entire body weight, basically his butt cheek on this foam roller and he's leaning into it. And he was like, you know, it really hurt for like, I don't know, a few seconds. And then after that started to feel a lot better. And when he got off of it, it was already kind of squeezed down to almost like, you know, half of the size. And instead of it being like in a roller, it was more of a rectangle because he had squashed it so much. So yes, I mean, size of a person and weight is also going to determine too some of the factors when you're talking about just durability and long lasting. But what we ended up doing is we took that foam roller. I told them to get a knife, like a butter knife and cut it down the middle. And we used it as a half foam roller to challenge balance work when we were ready for that. So certain things like that, you can actually use. I had the same thing, Wendy. I had an all lineman. He had the biggest calves I've ever seen. Yeah. And same thing. It was the shape of his calf. And I just said, you know what, just keep it because I can't use it. Yeah. That was, it was funny when you said lineman, I already knew where you were going with that. Oh yeah. So, so, you know, but we're just talking about foam rollers, but, but again, I am to the point where I think that is something that should be highly recommended and should be almost number one. And if you really think about going down like the template, if you're a NASM certified trainer or have seen any of the NASM templates, we just start with inhibition, which is basically foam rolling. So we're down regulating overactive muscles before we go into a stretch. And we do that to get better benefit from that stretch. And if we know that the muscle is tight and needs a good stretch, then we want to get the best stretch we can. So if we have the foam roller first and then do the correct stretches the right way, then I'm a step ahead of getting all those goals accomplished just during our training session by prepping them the right way. And if they're not with me and they want to mimic some of the stuff that we're doing, they're going to know the importance of that foam roller. So, so I always say a foam roller, number one. The second thing that I highly recommend Ken is the, and I like the cloth ones. However, it doesn't, there are different types of the small mini bands, the loop bands, if you will, not the ones with the handles, but the ones that are already in a small circle shape and they have different colors. I like a specific brand because they have lasted me the longest. However, the cloth ones I love because I can use them myself at home. And then when I feel that they're dirty, I can throw them in the washing machine. However, if I see different clients, I can also bring them home and wash them and, and it's not messing up the integrity of the actual band and it feels better on someone's skin. So they don't feel like they're getting pinched as much. So I like, but again, I've said this before, when we get into the activation side, I'm a huge fan of having every one of my clients, including myself do lateral two blocks because most of the outer hips, the glute minimis and specific or more specifically is weaker in individuals. So I get one of those and have them do their two blocks. Yeah. Many, many bands are great. Um, I will. So when you and I travel and where we're in hotels, um, I'll have a mini band in my backpack, right? I'll carry it with me very easy. I mean, it just, it takes up zero space. Um, and I bring that up. I know we're talking about home gyms, but I tell a lot of my clients who do travel for work and business, um, that if it's, if it can be in your home, it could also be in your travel bag when you are, when you're away for work. So things like that, features like that, and whatever piece of equipment that we're talking about, something that they can take with them. Um, so again, I know we already talked about self myofascial technique with a roller, but if someone has a hypersphere mini or a lacrosse ball, uh, they, that can go with them when they travel, that's, that's actually a double benefit as well, but the mini bands, um, and I love, and I, and I've got a couple in my facility, Wendy, that the bands that have the, that are more cloth and stretchy, but, um, tell me if yours has this or not, they kind of have that, that kind of rubber lining on the inside. So prevent it from sliding up or down the leg. If they're doing, if they're doing it. Oh, there she is. She's already. But I say like, I have it with me always. I get literally my backpack is right here. So, um, so yes, they have some that do have the rubber on there. There's some that, that don't. And, um, I've got both and I think it kind of depends on where I'm placing it. Like if I do the above the knees, sometimes the rubber ones a little bit better if they have on socks or something, and they're doing it around their ankles, whatever exercise I may have them do. But I will tell you, especially if you are really wanting your, you're new to exercise and you're, you're really trying to, to build the core and work on certain things. These types of bands are amazing because you can easily do, um, some, some floor work, some core work, some, you know, some people like to do bird dogs with them, or we're just moving our legs. I have people do standing hip circles with them. So we're working hip flexors as well as, you know, kind of getting a circular motion throughout the hips. And all of this feels really good on someone's skin versus feeling like there's rubber that's kind of taking them in different directions. Um, yeah. And it's, and again, it's, it's a modestly priced product. And I think if you're going to go with the minivan, the rubber ones, that's what, two, $3 a band. And if you get the full set, it's going to run like $10. If you're going to go from light to heavy resistance. And I tell my clients, you know, get, get the whole, the spectrum of, of resistance bands, because one, you're going to find one that's accommodating for you today, but you will get stronger over time. And a lot of times there's, it's cheaper when you buy them as a, as a package, but also there's other exercises that you can do, right? You mentioned some really good ones, tube walking, um, doing a floor bridge, but there's also things that you can do with your arms. If I have it around my wrist, I want to do some, uh, shoulder work, some rotator cuff, or even scapular work. I can have it around my wrists just as much as I can have it around my, my knees, my ankles or around my forefoot. So very versatile piece of equipment. Yes. And to your point, I think a lot of times we take for granted the upper body with them, but like you said, I mean, the things that you can do on the shoulder work, I mean, it's, it's awesome. So that that's another piece that you can do now. I will say, um, moving to something that's a little more pricey. And, you know, I say that because I know that it's, it's not in everyone's budget, but if you, if you don't want to use what we're going to already talk about, which I'm going to go into as some sort of cable machine, you can also think you can do a lot of the different stuff with the tubing, with the handles, because you can actually anchor those types of single bands onto a piece of equipment to make a good, strong anchor. And then you can do a lot of the different things that you can do on the cable. I personally did not have room for a big cable machine in my personal gym. However, in this client that I was telling you about that, you know, had the means in the space, we got him a dual cable machine where, uh, it's one base that has two different stacks. The arms can move in all different directions. They can move in and out and up and down. And when I train him and, or his wife, we can use that same piece of equipment at the same time if they're doing single arm or single leg or something with it. So it's very versatile, especially if you're going to do group training, uh, meaning for yourself or your trainer where you're going to be at a location. Now I, because it don't have that space, it didn't have the height for it personally for the arms to go all the way up. So I purchased a encore, which is, or an anchor, if you will, depending on, on how you say it, but it's something that I can actually anchor it like Velcros onto a piece of equipment and it's a cable and you have these little bitty, uh, they're about this big, if you will, uh, pieces of weight that you can actually put on it that will increase the tension of it. And, and something that I can actually take when I travel and I see the different teams, if I'm working with tennis, I can actually put it on the tennis net and work with my tennis, uh, people outside. Um, I can, I can take it and work virtually anywhere with it, but I can also use it for myself. So again, it is a higher piece of equipment to invest in. However, I personally, with my own workouts really do like cable stuff. So it's, if I'm going to make this, I wanted to make sure that I was, I was actually going to use it. And, um, as a trainer and him having the means that I'm going to his house to train him, I was like, this is a piece that I feel would be beneficial. And it's worked great. Oh yeah. I, I have one in my facility. Again, my, my, my facility has, is more of an open space concept, but I use it in there and I have it here in my home as well. So my own personal home gym, I've got one, I have happened to have an open post that has some space in front of it. So Wendy, uh, the pushing, the pulling, um, pressing, um, all of that I'm able to do. And I have made recommendations, uh, for that, for my clients, all they need is like what you're saying you like, you can strap it onto a post or a fence, a tree. Um, you know, you, you, a lot of, a lot of options on as long as it's secure. Um, but as you said, it's a, it's, it's an investment, right? It's, it's over $700, but from that vantage point, you can do anything and everything that you can do on a cable machine, right? There, there's nothing that you can't do on a cable machine that you can't do there. But, uh, just to clarify, and the something I had to explain to my clients, like it's got 60 pounds of resistance. This, this kit is 60 pounds. I know you've got, you're pulling on the cable and those little 10 pound incremental, you know, quote unquote weights that has 10 pounds of resistance on it as you pull the cable. So you add 10 pounds on 10 pounds. So it's only, I mean, it's not even a pound, right? Each one of those. Yeah. They're easy to travel with. I say they're super cute. They're like, you don't want to say that it takes, don't say that in front of it. I guess it's fire. It's fire. It's fire. Yeah. It's not mid. But, but it's, uh, it's, it's a very big, uh, it's a big as in what it can do for your home gym. Um, you know, by adding a cable, cause that's one, that's one motion. A lot of people cannot do it. A lot of times you're just relegated towards dumbbells, kettlebells, bands, foam rolling, but here you, you're just redirecting gravity from that vantage point. So I can have resistance from in front of me, resistance from behind me. And like, like you just said, anything you can do on a cable machine, you could do here. So it's, it's a big piece. I mean, it's, as far as influential piece of equipment, when it comes to the quality of your workout and what things that you can do. Mm-hmm. And then I think another one, uh, that I obviously suggested and have myself. And I think, I mean, obviously you would, you would as well would be the dumbbells. Um, so we, we have the dumbbells that you can change. Um, it's just like basically two different dumbbells and you can change the weight on there. And so I don't have like fives all the way up to whatever number I want. Mm-hmm. It's just, you know, a set where I can change the weight. My husband can use it and change the weight and we pick them up. And so it's like a single set dumbbells with, with the weights on the end. Um, I personally really like those, uh, can, I don't know, do you have like the, but I mean, I'm sure you do at your gym, but I'm saying like at home, do you, what do you have all the different weights or do you have? Yeah. No. So, so here's a, actually before I share with you what I've done with my own home gym, let me just share with you that this episode of Random Fit is brought to you by NASM One, the membership for trainers and coaches. Members enjoy unlimited access to hundreds of career resources. Get the Edge app to schedule and program clients. Enjoy half off all certifications and specializations, access free CEUs and more. All this for just $35 a month. Go to nasm.org forward slash membership to learn more about NASM One. So, uh, Wendy, I'll say that I had a five, I had three pound dumbbells, five pounds, 35 pound dumbbells. I mean, just stuff that I've accumulated over the years and I was using, but I'd have to go from a 20 pound dumbbell to a 35, right? So it's a big jump, which again, that's not, that's not a story that I had. I mean, it's a story I hear a lot from my clients. Like, and I, you know, even though I work with my group of guys twice a week and I have to ask, okay, all right, Greg, how much is, how much, how much, how much weight do you have right now in your dumbbells? I, I have an eight and I have a 15 and I have a 30 and then Jim and Jim has the adjustable weights. You know, he just twists the wrists and then he can pull out that. And then I have another client's like, how much, how much weight do you have available? So I have, I have to play this mental gymnastics of who has what. Um, but I'll say that for myself, I was, I, um, I have a set of power blocks again, popular brand of adjustable weights. Um, and because of, you can put these little metal cylinders in there and kind of give it two and a half pound incremental, uh, weight increase. So I can go up in increments of two and a half pounds, um, which is huge. I mean, for home gym purposes, 55 pounds is the heaviest I can go, I think. Um, but that satisfies most, I'd say 98% of the people out there. So a hundred percent of my clientele, I don't have anybody that's so big and so strong that, you know, I need the 90 pound dumbbells. Yeah. I mean, to your point, if they, they need that, then, then obviously they should probably go to a gym because there's a lot of, I'm not going to recommend having, you know, necessarily a Smith machine or some sort of, uh, a rack, you know, in their home because of the size of this stuff. I mean, we have the barbell, we have the actual weights for this at my house, but we were like, what are we going to do with this? So it's literally sitting in the back end of our basement because we can't really put it into where we're actually working out because it takes up a lot of space. But, but I'm like, we have this random bar that we never really, because we're not really doing a lot of different types of squats or we don't have room to put it on our back and do walking lunges because we're going to run into walls. And, um, you know, so that is something, the reason why I don't recommend that. Now, again, if you have the space and somebody really does love doing bench presses or, you know, certain types of rows or something with an actual barbell, then I'm all about it because it's something that fits their goals, their wants and their needs. But on, on the average, I don't suggest that I always say, Hey, let's work on the mobility, the stabilization, the smaller things at home. And then you can lift heavy with different types of equipment in the gym or with me. So another one I strongly recommend is the TRX. Like I don't have something that I can actually take the TRX and anchor to the ceiling because I have drop ceilings in my, and where my gym is in my basement. And, um, so I have the door, you know, the actual, where you can throw it over the door, shut it. And I guess the door anchor, if you will, and we can do virtually everything that way, but we're not necessarily underneath it. So there are a little bit of limitations, but I have really loved having that at home and easy to travel with too. Um, as far as versatility of what you can do on one piece of equipment, I think, uh, TRX or, you know, when it comes to fitness anywhere, TRX gives you the most options. You can, you can push, you can pull your, your, your rowing, you're doing pushups. You can put your, um, you can put your, uh, feet in the, in the foot cradles and do some ab work. You can do hamstring work. You can do balance work. Um, it's actually one of the, the, after foam rolling and adjustable dumbbells, that's one of the things that goes on the list as far as what I recommend clients making investments in just the one word of caution. I tell everybody is when you are putting the little door anchor for that TRX, just make sure if that's a popular door or if it's a door to someplace else, some, you know, that someone might be entering the room that you're in, make sure you put up that sign that says workout in progress. I think that's what the sign says. It actually comes with it. Yes. And I, I have, uh, I have needed that sign and not used it before to say, you know, but it's all good. I'll always say, yeah, I'll always say, Hey, I'm working out. Nobody coming to this room. And, and I would say probably, I mean, when we're actually talking about workout equipment, I mean, I still love my stability ball. Uh, I know, I mean, I, I still do chest presses on it. I still will do a lot of like pushups or planks or different things on the ball because I, I, when we kind of introduced it, meaning NASM kind of brought it into the, the, uh, into the model, I really had a lot of fun doing a lot of different things and things that weren't just the standardized normal things you saw in the gym. So I still like to challenge myself to see if I've got it. So because I can, and I think my clients are ready. I also have them use it a lot of times because I have to demo it. And, uh, and so I've, I've always loved my ball and yeah, yeah, I, I suggest that to you. Yeah. Yeah. I have, unfortunately I have two of them, so they take up a lot of space. Yeah. Yeah. Um, well, because my kids are doing the exercises, you know, they're doing, they have their version of the exercise. I have my versions of exercises, but it does give a little, I mean, it makes things fun as long as I think with, with consideration for that piece of equipment, you really have to have the space for it. Not so much that if I'm doing a ball pushup, my hands are on a ball, my feet are on the ground. I'm doing a pushup with, from that, from that standpoint, I just want to make sure that, especially if you're a new person to using a physio ball, you want to have plenty of space to the left and to the right of it. So if you, you're now starting to invest in a bench, which is a great piece of equipment, but also your, your, uh, adjustable weights are nearby. So safety starts to become an issue when you have stability tools in there, because if you're going to sit on it and do some curls, or if you're doing a ball wall squat, you want to make sure now that you have the wall space that's open, you don't have a bunch of shelves and things next to you. So safety, again, going back to the idea of space, does start to become, you know, a concern when you start to accumulate things, but specifically for the physio ball, you want to give yourself a little bit of room, especially if there's a chance that you might fall off one way or the other. But then again, hopefully you're not doing exercises that are beyond your ability to control your body and use the piece of equipment safely. Yeah. And I think you mentioned it. I think a bench, um, is always good too. Now I will say this one thing that I'm our bench. We have actually have two of them. One bench that we have actually has a place where we can put some of our weights underneath it. So you can kind of store. I mean, I know I have the adjustable big weights, but to your point, I still have the threes, the fives and an extra set of tens that I, and I don't want stuff everywhere. Like I'm very type A, you guys have known that I like things very clean and organized. So being able to put those free weights underneath and have a space for them. Plus the, one of the ones that we have actually will anchor up or, or, lift up. So you can have it in an incline. You can do it in different, um, kind of different ways where I can be sitting straight up, or I can kind of go down into where I'm laying flat. Another one that we have that is one where you can actually lift up as well, but there, they have a storage underneath it. And so, you know, all the bands, two walks and the, or the, uh, bands for two walks. And if you're doing resistant bands with handles, that stuff can be kind of stored in there as well. So if not like have a little storage area, like a basket where everything goes. So A, you know where to find it and B, you know where to put it back. And also when things are clean and organized, it makes your workout, like you said, safer because there's not a lot of random stuff thrown everywhere, but it also makes it easier for you to find, especially when you're trying to hurry to use things or minimize your rest periods. Right. Right. Um, and I think something else that you and I haven't talked about, Wendy, is just the flooring, you know, as far as safety goes. Yeah. And if you're, if you're in your garage, um, and if it's just, I mean, untreated or, uh, you haven't done anything to the floor and to improve the tackiness and traction, uh, having some kind of rubber, uh, rubber flooring installed. I mean, it's easy as finding something that's like a three, you know, three by three, uh, interlocking squares. And that just helps with traction and that's going back to the safety side of things. So if you're talking about your home gym, um, making sure that you're, the area is safe. And like you said, Wendy, we can't preach it enough is that we want to make sure it's free of clutter, but also making sure that one, it's easy to clean, but also to save for you to walk on versus, you know, just the other, the other week I was visiting a friend, his, his, his equipment's on a wood floor, a very, when it's clean, it's a slippery wood floor. So just to make sure that, um, yeah, you're, cause you're, you're also putting your weights down, you're, you're picking it up, putting it down. Um, especially if you have the harder metal or even the, just being heavy, if it's going to sit there, it, you know, you don't want to damage your, your investment in your floor either. So, or just, yeah. Or carpet. I mean, so in my basement, my basement is, uh, we have carpet. And so we did the same thing. We put the interlocking squares down and the workout side because a, I have clients obviously that'll come over and we'll do some, some manual stuff. And then we do some corrective exercise. I don't want their sweaty bodies and sweat. I don't want that. It will be like, to your point, like cleanliness is going to be important because too, you have to think, okay, he's going to be using it. If it's just your gym and it's just you and you don't care, it's all good. But, um, for me, I don't want, I don't want, uh, personally to have that on my floor forever until I get my carpet clean, which I would have to do all the time. So, I mean, I know that we could go on and on, but I, you know, I just, I think the whole purpose that when we started talking about this and I was mentioning the client is, you know, what he said to me afterwards when we went through this list, because basically what we just talked about is basically these that we told him to buy. I mean, we did include some recovery things. Like I had him buy a pair of recovery boots and, um, a venom back for his lower back. Cause he really likes heat and vibration in there. And that's just like a nice to have for him. Um, but I think the biggest thing was, is he was very appreciative because I could have told him, I want you to buy this and this and this, and he probably would have bought anything that I told him to buy. But I'm like, realistically, these are the things to start with, because this is the stuff you're going to use all the time. And then the nice, you know, the, the kind of nice to haves, if you will, or as we kind of build more on your programming, if we see that we're missing something, we can easily go back later and purchase it. So he was expecting that if he was going to be out all of this money and in all reality, it was way less. Um, which again, just because you can, doesn't mean you should. And I didn't want it to be just a rack for him to throw stuff on. I wanted it to truly be things that he's going to be able to use. He knows how to use, and that was going to mix up his workout and all different facets, no matter what phase of training we were in. And, um, super grateful for it. Yeah. And I think because they've had that guidance from you, Wendy, that you're able to make smart decisions on what's, you know, what do I need to do to maintain, if not improve a little bit between sessions with, with, uh, you as a personal trainer. And that's, that's the same conversation I have with my clients. So, um, Wendy, thanks. Uh, thanks for your insight. I always, uh, love kind of picking your brain a little bit as far as how you handle, um, different topics like this with your client. So, um, and it just affirms that, Hey, I'm saying pretty close things. Yeah. We're on the same page, same page, uh, time, money, and space, right? That's, that's really what it's about. So Wendy thinks, yeah. Thanks again for, uh, for sharing your thoughts on, uh, beyond the barbell crafting your perfect home fitness space. So thank you everybody, all the listeners of random fit for spending your time and money and now not money, but time and attention when it comes to this episode of random fit. So like, follow, subscribe, download, uh, let us know what you want to talk about on other episodes of random fit, and we'll get other topics on here for you. So everybody give us five out of five rating and until next time, take care and be well. That's it for random fit. Wendy and Ken will be back with more fitness fun until then keep moving and stay curious, like share and subscribe.