 asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc asc truly an inspiring interview. So I appreciate you being here and listen to Jamie and hear him out, listen to what he's saying and where he's coming from. It is so valuable. Make sure that you like, follow, subscribe, share with your fitness friends and family and leave a five-star review. Now, here's the episode with my interview with Jamie Selzler. Welcome to the NASM CPT podcast, winner of ShareCare and Gold Marcom Awards. Host and award-winning personal trainer and industry leader, Dr. Rick Ritchie delivers real world wisdom and trusted insights that keep you and your clients thriving. Hey y'all and welcome to the NASM CPT podcast. My name is Rick Ritchie and recently I was the co-author in a book called Inspire the World of Fitness and the chapter in my book that I wrote is called Fitness is for Everybody and Every Body. And in that, I go through some of the struggles that people have in participating in fitness because of two things, age and size. And I find it to be interesting, right? So we have gyms and we want people, look, can you be fit? What are you doing to change your life, make it better? And you go to the gym and you actually don't see a lot of overweight people? Actually, when I go to the gym, at least the ones I attend, I generally see really fit people. They're the ones there the most often and the most prominent in the gym. And then there are other people who hide and who are intimidated by the gym and are intimidated that those people look fantastic over there and they're enjoying and they're making a lot of noise and they're living their life in the gym. And it sometimes isn't a place for every body. And I say that because I, throughout my career, have hired several overweight and obese personal trainers who have made significant changes in their lives and had lost a lot of weight. And I think the problem is I hire those people and nobody knows their backstory. And pardon me while I say these words, people say to me, who hired the fat trainer? And I would say, I did. And they go, oh, oh, well, well, why did you do that? And I was like, do you know anything about them? Did you hear their story? Did you hear that they had lost a hundred pounds? And this is how they look now, but they've gone through so much more than most people have ever gone through. Well, I bring that up, this chapter in the book that just recently came out, Inspire the World of Fitness, as part of the idea fitness group that collaborated on this book. But I bring that up because my guest today, and my guest today is somebody who has been through that. And I don't want to spend too much more time talking about it because I do want him to explain a little bit about his story and see if he's experienced any of the things that I've been talking about, where you feel othered by an experience because of the body that you're in, the body that you have. And his story is pretty incredible with a weight loss of, so far, I see 370 pounds, and has gone on to become an NASM personal trainer, nutrition coach, and a certified wellness coach. So without further ado, I want to welcome Jamie Sessler. Jamie, welcome to the show. Thank you so much for having me, Rich. I really appreciate it. This is an awesome opportunity to be here. My trainer is a huge fan of this podcast. I'm sure he's a little bit jealous that I'm here, and he's not. Oh, let's rub it in his face. Well, I think you should get Peter here at some point, Dr. Ritchie, because I think it takes a special trainer to be able to look at someone my size and say, yeah, I'll train you a few years ago, and here I am today. Oh, I can't wait. All right. First of all, Peter, thank you. And Jamie, I did want to talk a little bit about this, this story. Yeah, so you do have a trainer. Was that the first steps that were made in that? You know what? Let me stop. Tell me your story. Start from the beginning, and then I'm going to pepper in some questions as you go through it. Sure, Rick. So my highest weight was 652 pounds. And this was probably about three and a half, four years ago where I was that size coming out of COVID. But I've been over 500 pounds since my early 20s. And I've had, you know, in terms of fitness, I've had multiple times where I lost significant weight. I've lost 100 to 150 pounds multiple times in the past. And that includes times where I was using exercise as well. I recall at one point I had, my first time I had a personal trainer was in 2013 for a few years. Amazing trainer, Josh Bowen out of, at Aspire Fitness in Lexington, Kentucky was incredible. And, but I didn't really succeed. And I look back now and I sort of feel like I failed my trainer as opposed to the other way around. But over the years, I just continually gained weight. Due to obesity being a disease, which I firmly believe as do medical professionals, on top of emotional eating. And I worked a lot and I traveled a lot and I was just never able to build any sustainable habits. And then often would injure myself in the gym and then I'd give up everything because of it. And I've now really changed my life. I've, you know, I'm below 300 pounds at this point. I'm a NASM CPT and my life is better in every single way. I'm, I'm smiling ear to ear for those of you who are not watching this on, on our social networks. You're listening to the podcast. Uh, Jamie, I'm, I'm wildly impressed with your story and, and I know that there's a lot of struggle that goes along with this. So can you, because you said you lost weight a lot, so 150 pounds on multiple occasions. And can you give me the emotional side of this? Like the, you know, what were you feeling when you were at those high weights? What was your perception of self? What was your perception that you thought others had of you? Yeah. Well, there was a clear perception that others had of me. When you are significant, when you have significant overweight in, in which I, I did for many years, you see how people look at you. And, you know, especially I used to travel for work a lot and airports are especially difficult for someone who's bigger. Airports and gyms are the scariest places to be if you're really big. And I would see people, you know, taking my picture, uh, secretly, you know, like I wouldn't catch them do it or, uh, the people who would, you know, nudge their friend next to them and, you know, point a finger at me sometimes giggle. And those are the kinds of things that I would see. And over the years, of course, that doesn't make you feel very good about yourself. I'm fortunate that I was raised well, I have a high degree of self-confidence, even at those larger sizes. And so that never got in the way of my trying to live my life. But what did get in the way of me trying to live my life was my size. And for many, many years, while difficult, that wasn't really impacting my mobility. And ultimately it got to the point where my mobility was impacted significantly in terms of what my movement was, was able to be. Uh, and in terms of, because of that, I was just, as someone who's extremely extroverted, it was just staying home a lot because the difficulty and even getting out. And so I needed to make a change in my case, you know, getting medical help with the GLP one medication, which I'd love to talk with trainers about, uh, who are listening today, but I really changed my life kind of bit by bit, but it's a huge emotional toll on you when you're that size and not just the perceived judgment of others, the actual judgment of others that you see in their face or that they say with their words. Man, I'm so sorry. Uh, I, I know that exists. And, um, I have a friend of mine who is a dance instructor and he's a, he's a, he's a big fella and God bless him. He can move like nobody's business. It is beautiful to watch this man dance. Uh, but he's in a bigger body and there's a lot of judgment for that, especially because he teaches group fitness classes. He teaches group exercise classes. And so he has a lot of people when he goes in to, to sub a class where they immediately, I don't know exactly what you feel exactly the story that you're telling the, I can't believe this is the person. Why would they hire anyone like that? And, um, and, and, and I'll go on to now pick up where I started from that. I've hired multiple people who were overweight, obese as personal trainers. And just let me know, Jamie, what your, your thoughts are on this. And then we'll dig into, you know, the experiences that you had. And then I do want to talk about the, the GOP one, um, supports that, that go along with it. Um, I've hired these people to, to come in and I noticed something that has been, that was really nice is that we started having more overweight people coming in and taking classes, more, uh, overweight and obese people joining the gym because there were people that were like them. And you hear this phrase so much, Jamie, you hear the phrase representation matters. And it's so true that if somebody is there that can experience what I have experienced, that have gone through some of the things that I've gone through, then maybe they are the one that can more comfortably help me, or at least I can be more comfortable approaching somebody and asking for help because it's a big difference being a certain size. And then saying, I know that there's this 22 year old with, with 8% body fat that doesn't know what I feel, doesn't know what joints hurt on me, don't understand the way that this body feels and the way that people perceive me. Um, I found it really successful and I'm proud to say that I'm somebody who has hired multiple people that have been overweight, obese and older because older people oftentimes also find it a hard time going into corporate gyms. And, uh, I, you know, just give me some feedback. Like what, what did the gym feel like to you looking in on it and, and maybe not seeing people that, you know, represented the way that you looked and felt? Yeah. Well, I want to start with, with language. And this was a lesson that I learned about a year ago. I was talking with Dr. Paul Davidson, who is, uh, a PhD and in psychology and works with, uh, clients who, and patients who have obesity. And I was talking to him at some event and I referred to myself and I said, well, you know, I'm obese. And he said, no, Jamie, you have obesity. And it really started changing how I talked about myself and that I'm not an obese person because if obesity is a disease, then you don't say I'm a cancer person. You say, I'm a person that has cancer. And so now I've, I've had to work really hard to change my own language about this, that when referring to someone, you can say this, that's not an obese person. That's the person who has obesity or that's not an overweight person. That's the person who has overweight or has weight issues. And by changing the language, you really do begin to separate who someone is as a person from this condition that they are struggling with. So I think powerful. It is. So changing the language allows you to, especially talking with the client as, as sort of separating them from this thing that they have, which is critical just in terms of giving someone the belief, the self-efficacy that they can actually control the change. Yeah. Because if I'm an obese person, I have to change everything about myself. Whereas if I'm a person who has obesity, I can focus on what, what works, what do I do that's good? And now what do I have to change? And it's just an easier thing to do if you don't have to change who you are fundamentally as a person, at least at the start, those of us who've done this know that as you go, that becomes exciting. But at the beginning, that's very intimidating in terms of how people perceive a gym. And I talked to, you know, I have clients now, I, as someone who's lost this much, I have a social media presence where I talk to hundreds of people every single week about this specific issue. And the reality is that when you go through life as someone who is much larger, you are constantly judged. I talked about that already, but you are judged all the time. And you assume that if you were to go to a gym, that where the people are generally the healthiest, the most fit, you think that that's where you will be judged the most, or the most harshly, because these are the people who don't have the same problem that you have. And so it is incredibly intimidating to walk into a gym when you're a person who has 50, 100, 200 pounds that you need to lose to get into a better situation in terms of your health. That is made worse in the social media age that we're in. When you go online and you see people who are CPTs, or even if not CPTs, just trainers without certifications, who are out there judging people who have obesity, judging people who get medical treatment for it, saying bad things like, oh, you're just wanting the easy way out, that kind of stuff. There are trainers who've been on TV who make the training profession look like you're just someone who screams and yells and punishes people into health or makes people hate their body into health, which never works, at least not in a sustainable way. And so if I'm someone who has a way to lose, gyms are really scary. And the message that I'm trying, I'm trying to deliver two messages today. And really my entire life now is about delivering these, these two messages. Number one is to a person who has obesity, you can improve your life at a gym and using a trainer is a fantastic way to do it. And the reality is that when you go into a gym, and this has been my experience, certainly, that, and I, well, I walked into a gym at, during this, this time of 550 pounds is when I started work lifting weights, particularly, that when you walk into a gym, often, the people who are there are going to be the most supportive of you. They're the people who have the most respect for you, because they know personally, how hard it is just to show up, even just showing up and getting it done. And so I want people to know that you're not, while there's jerks everywhere, for the most part, you're not going to be judged in a gym, you're going to be supported. And it doesn't mean that everyone's going to go up to you and give you a pat on the back. People don't want to be patronizing. But you're going to find a supportive environment. And then to the other message I want to deliver to trainers out there is that you need to be aware that those who have a lot of weight are, have had struggles and have complex relationships with what fitness means to them. And you need to come to all of this from a place of love and respect. You know, no one chooses to be certainly in my case, 650 pounds, no one chooses this. And anytime you have this perception that someone's just choosing to be big, then you are approaching this in a way that is not going to be very helpful for someone. And if you're in this profession, because you want to help people, you should be supportive of whatever tool someone uses with you or their doctor to get the help that they need. There is a huge opportunity right now, an opportunity unlike anything that has ever existed. And you as a trainer have a choice. Do you be on the side of someone who's going to help with this opportunity and help people improve their lives? Or are you going to be someone who's going to be fearful of change? In terms of trainers, I thought me being someone who has now lost, you know, a significant amount of weight. And still, you know, my body will always be big, which I at this point, I like, but I'll always be bigger. I'll always look even after I've skin removal surgery and all that I'll always look like someone who's bigger than your average trainer. I thought that would get in my way. And to your point, I realize now, if you're someone who has 50 or 100 pounds to lose, and you go into a gym, and you have a choice between someone who's lost a significant amount of weight, who is your age, who's middle age, maybe, and who's been down this road, knows the difficulty in just day to day movement. Or you have a choice for someone who has never had more than five pounds of overweight on their body. And it doesn't experience this stuff. I thought they'd always go for the person who's the healthiest. And that's not the case. And it has really taught me that there are different types of trainers for different people. So if you're a trainer who thinks that you don't have the right life experience or skill set to train someone who's 100 or 200 pounds overweight, it is perfectly okay to say to that person, I don't think I'm the right trainer for you, but I'm going to help you find someone who is. Because, and I'll stop talking because I know you have a next question. You as a trainer can do a huge amount of damage to someone's life, not just by not being the right trainer for them. But if they have a bad experience in the gym, because you're not the right type of coach, then you are making it so they will never walk into a gym again. So sometimes the best thing you can do is say, no, I'll find someone who's better for you than me. It might mean a little knock on your income temporarily, but ultimately it's going to give you the right skill set to coach for decades of your life. Yeah, I think you're right. There's so many times where one person has a bad experience with one trainer. And therefore trainers are painted with the brush of they don't listen. No, he didn't listen. Oh, they hurt me. No, she hurt you. No, right. So there's this kind of one trainer did this to me. And so all trainers are a monolith to that person. And I think we have to be careful with that. In fact, I have a physical therapist that I've worked with for years and I'd refer people to him all the time. And I asked him, I was like, why don't you ever refer people back to me? And he said, I will never refer anyone to a personal trainer. And I said, why? And he was like, because I have so many people that come in to physical therapy because of being hurt working with the trainer. And I went, I'm not them. And I went, and no matter what, there is a chance when you are lifting things up and putting things back down, things that are heavy on the body, there's a chance for something to happen, but at least have it happen with somebody that's there to help and support them. And then certainly refer them to a physical therapist if they need to go. So after a conversation that ended up moving the needle quite a bit. And now most of my referrals come from that physical therapy company here in New York, which I appreciate. So I think that that's valuable. I want to talk a little bit about your decision to become a personal trainer. What was that? At what point did you get where you were like, I think that I actually want to study this a little bit and learn what it's like to be a personal trainer? How did that come about for you? Yeah. I mean, at my heaviest, the thing that got me to change, not to change my life because I tried before, but to actually just go seek help this time that would last was kind of had three things happen. One, I was on a beach. I had officiated my sister's wedding and fell on the beach and could not get up. I was stuck in the sand and I was terrified that people were going to take video of me. I was going to be a meme. I was going to become the beached whale. And I was by some miracle, one of my new brother-in-law's best friends is a world ranked amateur power lifter in bench press and guy in his fifties. And he came over to me and I said, I'm, I'm 650 pounds. You can't, I don't think you can get me up. He's like, I'll do it. And he did. He popped me up, uh, almost immediately in total miracle. A few weeks later, I was having dinner with some friends and one of them is 75 years old, pulled me aside. I was 43 at the time. And he said, Jamie, I want you to go to my funeral. I don't want to go to yours. Oh my gosh. And when a man who's 75 tells you he's going to your funeral, it made me realize that I was not going to see 50 years old. I was going to be dead. Jamie. And then a few weeks after that, I got stuck on a toilet. I couldn't get up off the toilet. I was just too weak. And eventually I was able to do it, but realized not only did I not have many years left, but the years that I left were going to be horrible. My mobility, I could walk 20 or 30 feet. I needed a walker to get up. And so the reason I'm telling you that's part of why I became a trainer is I know what it's like at the other extreme when your body is absolutely a prison for you. So as I lost the weight with help of a GLP one, obviously I learned how to eat much better and got access and use my personal trainer. Who's amazing and had a really good experience with the trainer in the past. As my weight got down, I actually appeared on a couple of podcasts, one of them being a pretty large podcast out there. And they're like, you know, you have a story to tell. You should start sharing the stuff on social media. So I started going on like Tik TOK because when people start GLP ones, they go on Tik TOK. That's where they, for this, cause they're generally going to, I mean, they're for the most part, uh, middle-aged, mostly women. And you hear about people use the GLP one who lose a lot of muscle on the process, not because the GLP ones causes any sort of muscle wasting, but they're just losing weight quickly and often without adding resistance training in. And so I was on social media and making posts and doing live streams and was getting a lot of questions about this and decided that I really needed to learn some of the science behind the advice I was giving people. And I was giving advice just based on my own story, uh, which included resistance training. But so I signed up for NASM. I went online, uh, you know, you fill the thing out. I get a, I get a call and talking to, uh, to the, the person at NASM about this stuff. And he's like, Hey, um, uh, he had seen me from one of the podcasts I was on. Uh, next thing you know, I talked to these, to a few guys. And so it took me about, it took me six months and it took me a little while to get it done. And it was, I became, I fell in love with the human body during this process. I, my career has been business, business and politics is what I've worked on my whole life. And, you know, back in school, high school, college, the sciences were not on the list of stuff I liked even dealing with. And, and I, I mean, I need to, you know, how I talk about, you know, those, especially in the fitness industry need to not have a judgment about those who have obesity. I had to also come to terms with my own biases about trainers, because I thought that if you're a personal trainer, you're just like some meathead who knows how to lift. And, you know, you go tell other people how to lift up heavy things. And that was my perception, even though the trainers I've worked with were smart guys and I respect it, but going through the ASM certification, I was deeply challenged with the science with both, with not just the, what the muscles are, but everything that goes into this with the nervous system and all of that. And I developed an entirely new level of respect for those who go through the process of becoming certified as a personal trainer. And, and I was like, wow, like it takes a great deal of intelligence to do this. And it's more than just being able to point and say, this is your bicep. It is so much more than that. And I am now blown away when I see folks who have certifications and personal training. It's not easy to do. And I have a huge amount of respect for that. So I, I had to approach my own. Yeah, absolutely. So just like those out there have biases against those who have a lot of weight and think that they're maybe lazy. I'd biases that those who were personal trainers didn't know what the hell they're talking about. And they were, when it came to science and they were just like, Oh, it picked that thing up. I was wrong. And if I could admit that I was wrong about my biases, hopefully others can as well about theirs. Uh, and so I've learned the science about this stuff. And as I've learned it, I've just become fascinated with how the body is connected and how every system affects every other system. And I just, I've fallen in love with it at this point. And which is interesting. I'm 47 and I found a whole new passion in my life. That's unlike anything I did before. Well, for them, at least when it comes to the physical side. Yeah, I love that. Well, Jamie, give me just a moment. And then I've got more questions for you. All right. This episode of the NASM CPT podcast is brought to you by NASM one, the membership for trainers and coaches members enjoy unlimited access to hundreds of career resources, get the edge app to schedule and program clients, enjoy half off all certifications and specializations, access to free CEUs and more all of this for just $35 a month. Go to NASM.org slash membership to learn more about NASM one. All right. I want to go back to some of the things that, that you had mentioned before, Jamie. So it's at one point you were talking about, don't be afraid to, to have people work with their doctors to help support them in a, in their progress. Right. And I think this is really important because we talk about, you know, I, I mean, I train a lot of people of a certain age and there's rare that I find somebody that's not on cholesterol medication or, you know, something for their triglycerides or their A1c or anxiety. And it's interesting because exercise is something that helps with all of those things, but the exercise professional should never be like, wait a minute, how, wait, stop taking all of that. I'm the exercise. I can help you. I think that that's really important to point this out is that we have this, this new magical support for people with obesity and the GLP ones. And, and I think trainers don't need to get scared. Like, no, no, no, just do it this way. I don't, I don't think that that's the best way to do it. First of all, exercise is not the best way to lose weight. It is a very good support. And I think that is very vital to, to point this out. And that being said, there is the, the GLP one, uh, class of, of drugs now pharmaceuticals that are incredibly helpful. You jumped through a lot of hoops throughout the years, losing weight, gaining weight, losing weight. And then you finally came across the, um, the GLP ones. Talk to me a little bit about the, the GLP ones, the conversations that you've had with your physicians and how that became something that allowed for a, a more significant and, uh, longer term change in what you experienced with obesity. Yeah. Well, first of all, I encourage every trainer out there to take the GLP one course that NASM offers. Obviously it applies for your CEUs. It is incredibly good in terms of teaching you how all of this works. I've taken it. Uh, I'm giving feedback on it. I'm going to be working with them on sort of the next iteration of it. It's a fantastic course. And if you're out there and Dr. Scott Cheatham that you spoke with on that. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's why I'm about to go film some content with them, but it is, it's a great course. If you want to learn more about GLP one, uh, my trainers taken it as well. And at this point, I think I'm, I'm certainly not a medical expert, but when it comes to at least the, the client use of a GLP one, I am absolutely an expert at this point. And I learned a lot in the course. So I encourage people to take the course. Nice. Thank you. In terms of, of course, but in terms of why this treatment works, at least for me and for many people that I talk to, and I've a hundred thousand followers across platforms who are mostly using a GLP one, it's that obviously it fixes some metabolic disorders. It helps with insulin resistance. But for me, the biggest effect that it has is that eliminates the food noise. And a lot of people don't quite know what that means. Obviously you lose weight by being in a calorie deficit. That is true. Uh, that will, that will always be true. How you achieve that calorie deficit is, is very different. And in my case, I have this thing called food noise. And if you don't know what that is, I'm going to describe it this way. Imagine you are a parent and you have a kid, I call him Timmy. I call him the Timmy, the food noise demon. So imagine you have a little kid named Timmy and you go to the grocery store. You're going to get some healthy stuff to make dinner that night. And Timmy sees a candy bar, wants it. You say, no, Timmy, you can't have the candy bar. It'll ruin dinner, ruin your appetite. And Timmy throws a tantrum. He starts screaming and hitting the ground. And parents understand what this is like, where you have a kid who just throws a tantrum and you're a parent and you're in the grocery store. And now you can't hear yourself think you can't focus because Timmy won't stop screaming. And you have a choice. You give Timmy the candy bar. You know, it's the wrong thing to do. You know, that it encourages bad behavior, but you know, that in this one instance, it's fine. I just need to move about my day. So you give Timmy the candy bar or you can choose to ignore Timmy. But how long can you ignore Timmy? Could you ignore Timmy 24 seven for weeks? No one can. Timmy is food noise. That's what, that's what food noise is like. And a GLP one is like leaving Timmy at home when you go to the grocery store. So you can actually make better decisions. I used to say it's like giving Timmy up for adoption, but someone told me that's a dark analogy. So it's like leaving Timmy at home with a, with a sitter. And so if you are someone who has significant obesity and you're trying to make healthier choices, finding a way to quiet the food noise changes everything for you. And it has for me, I don't have that anymore, which means that all of the things you're supposed to do, uh, you, you can do. And in terms of, especially when it comes to eating. And of course, as people know, once you have some success with weight loss and your, your inflammation goes down and your joints feel a little bit better, then you actually have a desire to start some of the movement in my case, resistance training and walking. And so that's where a GLP one, you know, talking with my doctor, it was the right decision for me. There are other options like bariatric surgery, which I never seriously considered in the past. I always thought I could do this on my own and I'm glad I live long enough for a treatment. It makes a huge difference in terms of how you approach day-to-day life, both, both physically and mentally. Oh man, that's powerful. That's powerful. I want to, I want to go back also to something else that you had said, which, you know, given the, the two trainers, there's a trainer that, the, of size, and then there are the other trainers that, um, that you actually, you said the words and I just, I want to backtrack on this a little bit, uh, the healthier trainer or the healthy trainer. And I was like, I want to go back to that just for a moment for, for you, for us, for listeners is that there are so many people that give the perception of, healthy because of the way that they look and they get there in a very, very unhealthy way. So what they take, what they do, what they do to their body, what they put in their body in an unhealthy way. So they're lean and muscular, but also potentially very unhealthy. And I also have known people who were very fit that did treat their body, uh, very poorly with substances and things like that. Also want to point this out. Um, there are a lot of studies and, and I am, how do I say this? I am a person with diabetes. Maybe I won't say I am diabetic anymore, Jamie. I am with diabetes. So, so here I am thinking about this. And if, if I take this on this, this, this, this position with, uh, diabetes, I want to be really careful when I'm talking to people and making sure that I'm doing what's healthy for myself. And so when I, when I studied to do a course on fitness and type two diabetes, I was able to, to learn a lot about sedentary behaviors. And this kept coming up over and over again. And it said, um, that when people moved and you mentioned this first, just to start the show movement, getting up and moving and the challenge of moving with, with size, the more that people moved, the healthier they were independent of body weight. And it's research after research, after research didn't matter the size of somebody I'm sure up to a point, but the size of somebody, as long as they had more regular movement in their life. Now, certainly at a certain size, regular movement can be challenging, which limits the movement. Pain can limit movement and mobility can limit movement, but independent of body weight. We found that over and over again, the, the health markers were very similar is that people who moved more again, independent of what body weight were healthier people. And I just want to push that so much as, as physicians that, that look at people and they say, obviously by the look of you, by based on your BMI and all of this stuff, you need to lose weight. And, and I want to pump the brakes just a little bit. And I say, Hey, you want to lose the weight, lose the weight to the GLP ones. I think that's amazing. But the real answer is, can you move? Because the movement is the medicine and then you can add other medications into it to help support that process. And weight loss can also help support that process at a certain point, but the movement is the medicine and getting to the point where you can move to help support you in your life is something that I think not just fitness professionals need to be involved with, but things that we need to get our physicians more on board with as well is to gear towards movement and maybe a little less towards weight loss. And then if the weight loss supports like the GLP ones help with movement and mobility, even better, let's get more people out there moving. I think one, one area where those in the fitness industry need to be cautious, or at least mindful is in terms of the types of movement that people like, you know, in terms of, you know, and he has some certification, they talk about enjoyment being, being important. I think when it comes to those who are starting, enjoyment is more important than anything. Often, especially I think inexperienced trainers think that programming is the key programming is not the key. You have to find something that's sustainable. And someone who does a mid average mediocre workout, but it's something that they can do and they like doing that, doing that five or six times a week is, or, or even two times a week, if that's what you need to do to start, it's so much better than the perfect routine or programming that you do once every couple of weeks. And so I, you know, for example, I do at home workouts. I show people how to do them. I, I live stream them. I may have little videos and I have two rules for myself and I'll tell you how I got these rules. My, I got these rules because I searched online at home workouts and they're great, but they are not great for the vast majority of people who struggle with obesity. I only do workouts that I could have done at 600 pounds and I don't do anything that involves getting on the ground and getting back up. Right. Go, go look at at home workouts and it's things like dead bugs and it's all this stuff that you can do without equipment, but you cannot do it if you are a hundred pounds or more overweight. And so finding something that people really enjoy doing is great. So, you know, when I, when I program, either give advice or actually program for people, I just start with box squats from your couch. And I tell people just do that or from your bed. I say before, when you get up in the morning, get up and sit down 10 times and do that right before you go to bed. Congrats. You're working out your, your resistance training. And then if you want to grab a gallon, a jug of water and hold that in front of you, when you do it, that's even better. Now you're doing a goblet squat. Congrats. And when people, when people realize that they can enjoy doing very basic things, that's what begins to build that belief in them that they can do more. And if someone shows up at a gym and you start programming some like 45 minute or 60 minute routine that cycles through, you know, eight or nine different lifts, you are guaranteeing that they're going to fail unless they, you know, unless they have experience in the past where that's what they want to do. Taking someone and throwing them on an elliptical or a treadmill for 45 minutes is asking them to fail. Yeah. A lot of people, you know, have the perception that a gym is supposed to be grueling and not fun. I, I have a great time. You know, it's interesting. I, I was featured in the New York times a week or two ago and they, they sent a, and it's specifically about people who have found the love of exercise on a GLP one. And they sent a photographer to do a photo shoot. And I was working out with my trainer in the gym and the photographer's like, Hey, can you kind of look stern? Like, why are you, he's like, he's like, why are you smiling so much? Are you always smiling in the gym? I'm like, yes, I'm smiling all the time in the gym, except the moments when I'm yelling at my, at Peter, my trainer for making me, I hate deadlifting. So, so I yell, why are you making me do this? But you know, I'm smiling in the gym because I'm only doing things that I enjoy. They challenge me, of course, but I enjoy doing them. And I'm reminded when I'm in the gym that it was not that long ago where I got stuck on a toilet and now I'm moving my body in ways that I've not been able to move my body since I was a teenager. And so helping people find things that they enjoy, don't worry about it being perfect. And don't worry about how they're going to improve in the short term, improve at what, how do you build habits that they can sustain over the course of decades? And that usually starts with things that people like doing. Right. You know what? I've, I'm picking up that maybe this is some of that wellness coaching business that that's coming into play here, not just personal training. I think the wellness coaching is incredible for many reasons, but a huge part of it is about having, giving people the belief in themselves. The folks that I work with, and I'm including myself in this, really struggle with how do you get from here to there at whatever the end is. And I talk about the boring middle a lot. And you see this on social media. You see this with me. You see a before picture of someone who's, has significant obesity, who's very large, really deconditioned, which I learned during my certification is a nice way of saying out of shape. So someone who's very deconditioned. And then you see the after where they're moving their body and they look good and all of that stuff. And it's very easy when you are a client to see the before and after and want the after really quickly. Yeah. And there's this part that I call the boring middle. You know, there's the 1% that's the before and the 1% that's the after, but it's the 98% where the work happens and it's incredibly boring and it takes a long time. And it's doing the same boring things day in and day out, which is why enjoyment, uh, finding things that are enjoyable is so critical. And the wellness coaching really does teach you, uh, how do you coach clients through that phase? The part where it's six months in and someone decides that they just want to give up, you know, the, the best thing that happened to me during this process. And I think the wellness coaching, uh, can help coach people on how to do this. The best thing that happened to me in this whole time was accepting that it was going to take me longer than I wanted it to. When I said, you know what, from my, where I am at the beginning to where I am, not really at the end, cause there is no end until we're underground, but, uh, where at least I'm in a body after surgeries, after the weight loss, after all of that, it was going to be five years, about three and a half years in now. Uh, and so once I said, yeah, I'm going to give myself the permission that this is going to take years. It got easier, uh, uh, a slow drop on the scale or an increase on the scale, which we all have, uh, didn't become something that would make me make me want to give up. Uh, and dealing with how do you deal with the boring parts of it, which wellness coaching is really good about is really important. I think as we look to the future in this industry, it's going to be less about specific routines and programming and more about how do you treat a person holistically, uh, whether they be on a medication or not. And I think wellness coaching should almost be a required part of being a CPT at some point down the road. I like that very much. So I'm going to put you on the spot a little bit now with, with this question. Do you have anything currently that you feel like are roadblocks or struggles for you that, that you have to work through and what are some of the ways that you talk to yourself or that you, you know, create a support system that helps you through those? Yeah. Uh, good question. I think where I, uh, probably where I struggle the most now is after a while, things just start to slow down in terms of weight loss. I'll say this. I've never had a goal weight. I do not have a goal weight. Uh, I actually don't focus a lot on the scale to be honest. I mean, I weigh myself every day, but I don't really ever care what the number is. Uh, my goals are things because I can't control the scale. I can't pick a number. I'm not, you know, a robot that can program the, you know, the, what the number shows. I do have direct control over what do I eat my movement? How many steps do I get? What are my lifts like water? So I only set goals for things I directly can control and my weight is going to be whatever my weight is going to be. Uh, but because of that, my biggest struggle now is, is I've lost a lot of weight and I have a lot, a lot of loose skin, uh, particularly around my stomach, my thighs, um, you know, arms, all of that. And so it is, uh, difficult just physically in terms of imbalances and those kinds of things. Uh, and so I'll have, I'll have, you know, skin removal surgery at some point later this year, need to kind of refocus on that, but that's becomes a challenge. And for those trainers out there, my story is not unique when it comes to loose skin. And the more someone has to lose them, you know, there's no way you can avoid loose skin. There's no lotion, potion, or cream that does it. It's just luck, time, genetics. Uh, and so I think that's a challenge for me now and it's a challenge for others as well. And I think we, because it's a fairly limited number of people in the past, I don't think that we've found exactly how do you train someone and you may have ideas that I don't have, but how do you train someone that has a lot of loose skin other than just, you know, compression clothing and all of that. But because of GLP one, I think this is going to become a much more common situation in down the road. Yeah, I agree with you. All right. One last thing. Tell us a little bit about your coaching business. Uh, as we start to wrap up our time together. Yeah. So I am doing mostly online coaching for folks and two types of coaching. One is sort of a one-time thing for folks who are starting a GLP one. This is an area where I think trainers out there, uh, really should invest some time, which is why I think the GLP one course is effective. When someone is starting a GLP one, there are, they have questions about things like, uh, obviously exercise and working out, but basic nutrition information, particularly around protein and fiber. Uh, there's some misunderstanding. People need to know about water. They need to know things like, how do I talk to my doctor? And so while we don't, well, within our scope of practice, we're not going to give medical advice. We can say things like, you should talk to your doctor about protein. You should talk to your doctor about the side effects you're experiencing. And I think people need some of that reassurance. So I do some coaching. It's just one time. All right, you're starting a GLP one. Let me walk through what to expect for you. Let's come up, let's come up with like a basic, uh, movement plan for you that works with what you need. And then I do more ongoing coaching for, uh, folks. Everyone I'm coaching is on a GLP one. They're all folks who have started at one to 200 pounds, um, too much. And the coaching is really focused on the basic fundamentals. My, my coaching, I call it my one change coaching. And it really is about how do you help people identify what is one change that they can make at a time. And it's different for everyone. It's often sleep, uh, to start, but, uh, I think my focus is on people who have a lot to lose. I I'm not a big fan of the online coaching where someone creates, and I don't think there's a lot of actual CPTs that are doing this, but this online coaching where you use AI to create like one plan that you sell to thousands of people for 50 bucks a pop. I don't like that. I'm not a fan of that. I really prefer the individualized coaching that I think a lot of people listening to this podcast believe in. And I think that we as coaches have to combat some of that. Otherwise people are just going to get a perception that the person selling the $50 plan to a thousand folks is the same as someone who is charging significantly more, but actually providing individualized service. So that's what I'm trying to do in my own little, in my own little way. I do this on the side. I don't do it yet as a career or a profession. Uh, mostly what I'm trying to do is just provide a bridge for people. What I really want is for folks who are using me to use me as a transition to an actual physical gym and an, and a trainer inside of a gym. And so that's why for my coaching, I don't have a contract because I want people to be able to cancel anytime. And I don't want people to use me for more than six months, maybe 12 at the most. And so what my goal is as people get to the end is for me to help them find a gym and a trainer. So part of what I offer is, all right, you're ready to get into a gym. Let's look for gyms that are nearby. And then I will call and talk to some trainers on your behalf and find out, all right, do you, as a trainer, do you understand how GLP ones work? Do you have experience working with clients who have obesity? And then I'll give my client three or four names who they can then go out and talk to those trainers and then hire someone who's best for them, knowing that I've helped build a foundation and I'm transitioning to someone who can serve them in person. And that's how I coach. Oh, that is fantastic. Well, Jamie, I want to, first of all, I want to say thank you for your incredible vulnerability, your willingness to share and let other people hear your story so that they can, you know, listen and learn and be motivated by that. So thank you so much for doing that. And then I also want to give you a moment where you can share your socials, let people know where they can find you and follow you. Yeah. So I'm posting on YouTube, TikTok, Instagram. You can just search under my name, Jamie Selzler, J-A-M-S-E-L-Z on TikTok, and then Jay Selzler on the others. I fortunately have a unique name, so I'm not hard to find. And then you can find me online at myonechange.com or jamieselzler.com if you want to reach out. I'm particularly interested in learning and hearing from trainers who are maybe looking for advice to support themselves on how they talk to folks like me or the people that I serve. Excellent. Jamie, thank you. Also, thank you to your personal trainer, Peter. All right. Peter Wunderlich from Blueprint Personal Training in Fargo, North Dakota. Perfect. Perfect. Peter, thank you for being a fan of the show. And maybe we'll have a conversation about what it's like to train Jamie. So we'll circle around on that one. Jamie, thank you so much for being here. I appreciate it. And for everyone listening, thank you for being a part of this. Thank you to our producer, Eric Sorensen. Like, subscribe, share with your fitness friends and family, and leave a five-star review. If you want to reach out to me, hit me up. You can do so on Instagram at dr.rickrichie or email me rick.richie at nasm.org. Keep inspiring people to fitness. Thanks for listening. This has been the NASM CPT Podcast. Thanks for tuning in to NASM CPT Podcast. Like, share, and subscribe for more expert insights that empower you in your fitness career. Stay strong and stay curious. SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH SH