ухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухухух guys soon. Welcome to the Peak Physique Podcast hosted by IFBB Olympian and NASM Master Trainer Andre Adams. This show delivers elite strategies and cutting-edge techniques to build your best body yet. Hey, what's up everyone? It's your boy Andre Adams here, NASM Master Trainer and IFBB Physique Olympian. Welcome back to the NASM Peak Physique Podcast again. Today, we've got some really fun topics for you today, but we're going to ground it in hydrogen water and potential benefits for bodybuilders. This was actually a really fun topic that came up on one of our weekly coaching calls with my team. I love the topic and the conversation so much. I actually had to do some research and bring it here to share it with you guys because I love staying on the cutting edge of anything that's in the realm of bodybuilding, biohacking, and optimal health. We're talking about those latest trends hitting the biohacking world. This is one of the most promising therapies, we'll call it. I guess you could call it a supplement. Again, it's in water, right? When we think about H2O, we're talking about the H2. Some of the things we've heard so far, faster recovery, less inflammation, better performance, all these good things that obviously would be beneficial for anyone, but specifically the physique athlete. But does molecular hydrogen actually help with physique athletes, right? Does it help us train harder? Does it help us burn fat faster? Does it help us retain muscle? So these are the main questions that I want to answer with my research here today with you guys. All right. So let's dive on in to some good old hydrogen water discussion here. It's trending in high performance circles. When we think about recovery kind of being top of mind, and again, you'll see this even at your local gym today, but recovery has always been an essential part for athletes and hydrogen water is starting to make its way into those circles. It's often marketed as an anti-inflammatory antioxidant, it's recovery enhancing. So these are some of the bold claims that you'll hear throughout some of the messaging. And again, we want to sift through some of the marketing and get down into the science of why this may or may not be a good addition. And then even if it does show some promising results, probably the more important question we all want to know, is it worth my time and money? Because things are expensive. If you're a competitive bodybuilder, we have enough expenses. So we're willing to maybe invest if there's payback and we're getting some value and some result, but is it just a fad or is there more to it? So our goal today, explore whether hydrogen water actually benefits physique athletes and is it worth the hype and the cost? Let's break down what hydrogen water actually is. Hydrogen water contains dissolved molecular hydrogen gas, or H2 for short. Different from alkaline water. I get that question a lot. And it's also different from oxygenated water because that's another question a lot of people have. It's not the same as an electrolyte drink, right? This is its own thing. So H2, dissolved H2 water. And hydrogen acts as a selective antioxidant. So there are some potential benefits that sound really promising when you do the research. That antioxidant helps to neutralize harmful free radicals like hydroxyl radicals, right? So there's things that in theory should allow us to improve our performance and our recovery. It may also reduce oxidative damage without blocking beneficial training adaptations. Because you guys got to remember when we're going through a hypertrophy training phase, there's a few mechanisms of action. Some of those are metabolic stress. And when we think about that, we don't want to disrupt any of our training adaptations. So we want the benefit without making something that's counterproductive to our results in the sport of bodybuilding. One thing that really piqued my interest in my initial research were the potential benefits on mitochondrial health. That also crosses the blood-brain barrier because hydrogen is very, very small. So these are things that are definitely interesting from a biohacking perspective. And when we're talking about mitochondrial health, we're talking cellular energy. We're talking about better overall muscle performance. So this could be something that is truly a game changer if we can truly unlock these benefits from the dissolved hydrogen water. And I know what you guys are probably thinking right now. You're probably thinking, but Andre, aren't we already getting H2 in H2O? That was actually my first question when this came up on our call. And I'm like, all right, let me put my former chemistry and engineering hat on. I'm like, let me think this through. And so the main answer to that is, yes, you are in theory getting hydrogen in water, but it's chemically bound to oxygen, right? So when we have H2 plus O, we get H2O. But if we can unbind that so that it's free and available for use, that's going to be a lot more effective. So that hydrogen is locked into the water molecule in water, meaning your body can't use it. It's not free gas. And it is different because hydrogen in water is actually dissolving those H2 molecules as hydrogen gas within the water. It's similar to how carbonation is dissolved as CO2 inside sparkling water. One analogy I like to think through is imagine that regular water is like a house where all the hydrogen is actually trapped into the walls, right? But with hydrogen water, we're actually filling that house with tiny little balloons full of hydrogen, right? And so they're available for use. They're free. They're unbound. They're not attached to the house. So think about it in that context. And when you reframe it that way, you can kind of visualize how there could be a potential benefit and how you're getting separate H2 that's unbound as opposed to bound up H2O. I want to talk about oxidative stress and how that can present as beneficial for bodybuilders. Heavy resistance training increases reactive oxygen species. Some of you guys might be familiar with this in some of our NASM coursework, but we refer to that as ROS, right? So reactive oxygen species, part of the metabolic stress process. ROS contributes to muscle damage, inflammation, fatigue, right? So we don't want too much of this for too long because obviously that's going to impair our ability to continue training high intensity and recover. Excessive oxidative stress can also slow the overall recovery process and contribute to DOMS. So it's the delayed onset muscle soreness. And hydrogen water in theory may help regulate oxidative stress during those intense training sessions. So this is where, you know, from a training perspective and regulating oxidative stress, this could be something worthwhile. And that brings us to some of the potential benefits for athletes. H2, hydrogen water may reduce muscle fatigue and lactate accumulation during exercise. You know, when we think about lactic acidosis, we think about lactic acid buildup after a heavy training session, right? That burning sensation in your muscles, we might be able to reduce some of that fatigue and accumulation with something like H2. So in that scenario, you would maybe be drinking it pre or peri slash intra-workout. But that would be the theory there, right? Is buffering that, you know, lactate accumulation during your intense training sessions. Some research does show that there's reduced markers of muscle damage and inflammation. This one I'd like to research a little bit more because here's the thing, you know, we get so caught up in anti-inflammatories and gosh, talk about supplements, right? Or recovery and everything is anti-inflammatory. But you guys got to remember what is hypertrophy in general? We're intentionally inducing inflammation in, you know, in the actual muscle fibers in the cells. This is how we're growing. This is how we're signaling the anabolic response. So we don't want to overdo anti-inflammatories either. So this is one that I want to maybe investigate a little further. You know, when we're talking about, let's say, 24 to 48 hours post-training, then it makes sense. Then we want the anti-inflammatories. We want to speed up the recovery, but we don't want to blow up that SRA, that stimulus recovery adaptation curve and potentially mess up that super compensation, right? Because once our bodies recover, and remember, they're rebuilding back to a state that's slightly stronger than you started. That's how we build muscle. I am a big fan of the potential mitochondrial support, as I mentioned, which can improve cellular energy production. Since it does cross the blood-brain barrier, that could also translate to maybe more cognitive function, maybe more mental focus and energy, right? So these are things yet to be explored. But possible improvements in recovery between training sessions, that's where I see it being the most beneficial. If you can recover that muscle faster, what does that mean? Well, that means that you can get back into the gym sooner. You can train that muscle harder. Now, imagine a lagging muscle that you're trying to speed up, right? You're trying to speed up the adaptation and growth. Well, heck, if I can train it three times a week instead of two times a week because I'm not recovered faster, that accelerates my whole timeline into prep, right? So that could be something that is beneficial if it proves out, if it checks out. So now that we got a little context on some of those potential benefits for hydrogen water, I want to talk about what the research actually shows, right? You know that in NASM here, we're huge on our three pillars for evidence-based science, right? Latest and greatest scientific data and research, the coaches' expertise, and then client outcomes. And so I want to talk about what the latest and greatest research actually shows. Research on hydrogen water, it's promising, but again, it is still very early. So there's going to be some information that is yet to come, yet to be explored. This is one that I want you guys to maybe keep a lookout for. Some studies do show that reduced fatigue and oxidative stress has been shown successfully and repeated repeatedly. So that's going to be an important part of just general reducing fatigue. From a physique standpoint, when we say reduce fatigue, when I look at an athlete that I'm coaching and we have a lot of inflammation, we have a lot of water retention, we have delayed onset muscle soreness, usually those things will also present themselves in way of biomarkers. So I like to track, you know, resting heart rate, HRV overnight, a few other things that give us a pulse on how that person's sympathetic tone or their central nervous system is responding. And again, if fatigue is high, stress is high, that means the body can't keep up with the demand of prep-induced stress, then that's going to definitely impair their ability to get lean, drop inflammation, and come in tight on stage. So if we can address some of these with something like hydrogen water, I'd be all for it. You know, but again, still a little bit preliminary in the studies. Other studies do show minimal and inconsistent performance benefits. So that's been the biggest issue right now is in some of those controlled studies, there are promising results, but they're having difficulty repeating that across the board. Now, one of the reasons that I personally suspect that there's some issues with repeatability is because the volatility of any gas, but especially hydrogen water. So variability, again, likely due to small sample sizes in the studies, and then inconsistent hydrogen concentrations. It's very volatile, so that gas, think about a soda, right? It's not too different than CO2, sparkling water, carbonated sodas. What happens when you first open a, you know, a can of Pepsi or Coke, right? You take a sip and you're like overwhelmed at how carbonated it is. Let that can sit there for two days and then take another sip and it's completely flat, right? Some of that dissolved CO2 is now obviously dissipated. Now, the issue with the hydrogen gas is it has a similar problem, but I think it's even faster from the studies that I've read. So that gas can actually, you know, dissipate, and you know, you don't have the same concentration of hydrogen water. Now, the biggest question would be, what is the shelf life as well? So if they're able to package this, make sure that there's a very tight control tolerance on the concentration of hydrogen, then, you know, we could be in business. We could be talking about an effective product here, but from what I've read so far, it's really hard to sustain that and make sure you have a adequate concentration of hydrogen. Just reinforcing when hydrogen water could help us as physique athletes, bodybuilders, even new performance athletes out there that are hopefully tuning into the show. During high volume training phases, such as contest prep, this would be a big one, right? Because that's when we have the most oxidative stress, we're creating the most metabolic stress and damage through high volume training. So this would be a clear area that I see potential to improve recovery for a bodybuilder. This can also be part of athletes that are doing multiple training sessions a day. Give me an example. Let's say that you wake up in the morning and you're going to do 30 minutes of fasted cardio this morning and you're going to do HIIT cardio, right? That's going to come along with cortisol spikes and it's going to come along with some, you know, aerobic to then anaerobic states when we're talking, you know, stress on the body. And then later in the day, let's say mid to late afternoon, you're going to get your weight training in. So now you have your one hour intense weight training session. And then if you are really going crazy, which I don't recommend, you might have another 15 to 20 minutes either post-workout or in the evening, right? Where you're trying to reach your stage conditioning. So you got a lot of high inputs between training and cardio. Again, daily multiple training sessions that would be considered high volume training phase could be a good application for hydrogen water. For most competitors experiencing high fatigue and oxidative stress, they would also fall into this bucket of who might benefit from H2. And then also people that may improve insulin sensitivity and metabolic pathways. So if you have insulin resistance, you have an inability to digest carbs, you know, your chromium on your HTMA is low. You know, you bloat every time you eat carbs or you just feel really inflamed and your body's not partitioning those nutrients properly. Could be a good application. Again, I don't see hydrogen water being like an immediate thing. You know, you take a pre-workout, you feel it within a couple minutes. I don't foresee it being that effective. I think this is something that you would end up using for a longer period of time consistently at consistent concentrations to really, really realize the full benefit of something like H2. All right. So when it's probably overhyped for physique athletes, this is probably the stuff that you guys want to hear the most, right? Hydrogen water does not directly build muscle or burn fat. Now, again, to my earlier points, that doesn't mean that it's, you know, immediately just written off as ineffective. It can be an indirect effect, right? So again, if we're able to get back into the gym a little bit quicker, we're able to recover, we're able to, you know, put more training density throughout the course of that training phase, then it indirectly is helping us build muscle or it's allowing us to recover a little faster where we have energy to wake up and do our cardio every morning and get lean. It's indirectly helping us get lean and burn fat. You know, if it's improving insulin sensitivity, it's therefore improving nutrient partitioning, allowing our bodies to store that energy in a more efficient way versus storing it as belly fat. So I think there's still promise there. It's just, I want to point that out and make it very clear for you guys that it's not a direct muscle build or fat burning effect. These are indirect things that help enhance metabolic pathways and improve, you know, your overall performance. Some of the recovery benefits, they may be subtle for more recreational lifters. So let's talk about fitness enthusiasts that maybe aren't actively competing. I don't think you're going to see as noticeable of a result because it's not that the result isn't there, it's that you're not creating enough oxidative stress, and it would be really hard to measure. So it could still be a very good therapy to consider. However, I don't think the benefit will be as recognizable as it would in athletes that's training four to six times a week, you know, doing cardio four to seven times a week, then it's going to be a little bit more important. And, you know, the result I think would be a lot more obvious. We got to remember too, when we're talking about hype, many commercial products lose hydrogen concentration very quickly. Again, that gas will dissipate over time, and it's very volatile. So that's going to be something that we'll need to observe. I'd like to see more studies around it. And, you know, see what the active shelf life is. Once you open that hydrogen water, do you have to drink it immediately? Or is it okay, you know, if you drink it two days from now? And then what the measured result is, because that's the scientific method, right? It's having a controlled study with, you know, a large enough control group, and then making it repeatable under different scenarios. So I'd like to see more data on it. But I think that's going to be one of the biggest risks. And if you guys think about it, if you pay five times as much for hydrogen water, and it's dissipated, right, so it's just kind of inactive, you're kind of just paying for expensive water. So that's my one caveat for you guys is, you know, maybe try it out. But just be cautious, because we don't know how long the shelf life is for those products. So again, this came up in discussion, one of my coaching calls, I thought it was a really fun rabbit hole to go down and just start researching. But I do see some promise for hydrogen water. It's just I don't think we're fully there yet. So leave you guys with a few key takeaways and thoughts on H2. Hydrogen water may support recovery and oxidative stress management, especially in high volume training and physique athletes. It should not replace your fundamentals. When we're talking about adequate recovery, it starts with building a foundation, sleep, nutrition, programming, undulating periodization, regular deloads, self care. I'm going to give you a few of my self care before we wrap here. Red light therapy, parasympathetic breathing, massage, you know, you can do infrared sauna, contrast therapy, grounding, you can do so many different things to take care of your body first and foremost and drive recovery. Now hydrogen water could be very complimentary to that. But don't think of it as a replacement or substitute for those, right? So it'd be complimentary to good old fashioned self love self care, Epsom salt baths to one of my favorites. Best viewed as a potential recovery tool, rather than a performance miracle. And that's where we need to delineate the hype. Because when you see those articles flash across your screen. And since you watched this podcast today, you're probably going to start seeing advertisements on hydrogen water. Because the algorithm just loves that. But just again, I caution it, right? Make sure that you understand it's not a miracle water. It's not a holy water. This is actually a tool that can potentially help support our recovery and our overall performance. And for me personally, I like to leave you guys with a little bit of science, but then also a little bit of my personal thought. I actually love the science behind it. It's a really fun topic and potentially a good adder. But we may not be fully there yet. The jury's still out on this one. So again, I'll be paying attention to the latest and greatest articles as they come out. But I encourage you, if you are looking for something new to try, you're struggling with oxidative stress, performance, recovery, fatigue, you might want to give it a try and report back. I'd love to hear you guys experience with that. So you guys know how to reach me. You can actually find me online at teamadamsprep.com. If you got some fun, exciting topics you'd like to share, or if you're going to try hydrogen water, I'd love to hear your feedback. Email me at trainingbydre at gmail.com. And of course, you can catch me on thegram at Andre Adams underscore official. Guys, if you enjoyed this episode, we encourage you, please share it with at least one friend. Be sure to like and subscribe. And we'll see you guys back next time on the NASM Peak Physique Podcast. Thanks for tuning in to the Peak Physique Podcast. Subscribe for elite strategies and cutting edge insights from IFBB Olympian, Andre Adams.