 Hi, I'm Dr. Morty Miller, NASM master instructor since 2005. Surround yourself with amazing people who have done what you haven't done and that you can lean in and have them mentor you and learn from. I think the most important mindset shift somebody has to have when they're going from a successful personal trainer into a business owner is have I prepared properly? Just because I was great at my fitness professional aspect of my career where I had a ton of clients, I was successful, they were getting great results, I was generating the revenue I needed, doesn't mean I'm prepared to run, open, operate and manage people and operate a business. So, put the time in and maybe don't jump too quick. Do your homework, see where your weaknesses are, do a SWOT analysis. You know your strength is to be a great fitness professional. Well, the weakness, do you know how to run payroll, to do the legal stuff, to negotiate leases. You may need a partner who has those skills or you may need to go out and find resources that can help you. The opportunities, what's the opportunity in the marketplace so that way you're not just another fitness business. And then what are your threats? Do you really analyze what the current structure is where you're going to open your business? Do you have competition? Do you think that you'll be able to operate if another big box gym or somebody else comes in? Do you have a unique selling proposition with your business? I worked four years for the Montreal Exos and the minor leagues and then decided to have a family and realized that that wasn't the lifestyle that I wanted. And I stumbled into a fitness career down here in South Florida and man oh man am I blessed to have stumbled into that. Because then I understood that I get to help people, we'll call them the everyday gym goer, really change their life. And it has provided me such amazing opportunities throughout my life. As I've said, I've been with NASM for over, you know, 21 years now and I've been able to travel the world as an instructor, meet so many great people like yourself. Sit here and film this to hopefully help some of you. And then I did get back in professional baseball in 2007 with the New York Yankees. I thought okay, I'm back, this is where I'm going to be. And then I realized that I don't have to be in pro sports to train athletes. And here's what I mean. Everybody's an athlete. Everybody. I had a client who was in his early 50s and I was at a private country club and he asked me, Marty, how do you train us differently than the Yankees? I said I don't. He's like, what do you mean? I said you have the same human capacities, just not the same human abilities. You have stamina, you have strength, you have power, right? So if I use that scientific methodology with my athletes, I'm going to still use it with you. But your capacity within that ability will look different. So I really found that as a great moment in my career where I'm like, okay, this is going to be fun teaching them to train like the athlete they are. So the mindset to me is fitness and education. And I've been blessed to work in fitness education are the two races with no finish line. And if you have that mindset, you'll see education as an investment, not potentially an expense. And now there's great opportunities for you to learn outside of structured, continuing education programs. But pick a path, find out where you need to fill in some gaps, maybe some weaknesses, and look at that as an opportunity to grow. The most rewarding part about what I get to do now as chief movement officer for Kino Tech is I truly get to help create the trends in the industry. I get to work with the brightest minds. I get to be on the cutting edge of innovation. I get to change the way fitness has been done and help monetize that from a business standpoint. So I find it incredibly rewarding. But that also means that I'm helping develop tools for hopefully hundreds of thousands of professionals that work in elite sports, work in physical therapy, work in fitness like all of you, and now help you have tools that impact your business drastically.