 redundin, redundin, redundin, redundin, redundin, redundin, redundin, redundin, redundin, rest and recovery. So we hope you enjoyed this five-part series. If you haven't, you need to go back one through four and watch those. But on this episode, when we do talk about the power of rest and recovery, Ken, what do we discuss? Well, we'll go into the science behind what's happening with the body. We're looking at the brains. Again, we're not brain surgeons. We're just going to give you enough information on what's happening with the brain, the muscles, even your appetite. And we'll give you some tips that you can take with you to help you get better sleep and sleep like sleeping beauty. So like, follow, subscribe, give us a five out of five rating and enjoy the episode. You're listening to Random Fit with hosts Wendy Batts and Ken Miller, winner of a Gold Markham Award for digital media. Hello, everyone. Welcome to Random Fit. I am Wendy Batts here with my friend and co-host, Ken Miller. Ken, how's it going? Good. I'll say good. I love it. Well, today's episode, guys, is number five of a five-part series. And today, we're really going to dive deep, if you will, into the power of rest and recovery. But if you've missed episodes one, two, three, and four, I'm going to give you a very quick recap, and then we're going to dive into the content. So episode one, we talked a little bit about the Goldilocks principle. Now, everything we're talking about has to deal with a little fairy tale and then how that fits into our life today. So when we talked about Goldilocks principle, we were trying to find just the right amount of stress. And episode two, we talked about the three little pigs, if you will, and building that fitness foundation. So talking about key principles of the progressive overload. Episode three, we talked a little bit about jacking the beanstalk and growing your vertical jump. So you definitely don't want to miss that one, especially if you're working with professional athletes going through the combine or getting ready to go through the combine. Number four, we talked about Little Red Riding Hood navigating the dangers of overtraining. And like I said, today is the last part of our series. And we're talking about sleeping beauty. So the power of rest and recovery. So Ken, tell me your thoughts on this, this sleeping beauty and how it deals with our rest and recovery. Well, sleeping beauty, correct me if I'm wrong, Wendy, but sleeping beauty, she, she ate the apple, right? Was she the one that ate the apple and then fell asleep? She fell asleep. But hopefully for her, it was very restorative, right? She got her rest. She woke up just as beautiful as ever. When she was kissed by, was it Prince Charming? Something like that. But when it comes to the power of rest and recovery, what we're talking about with sleeping beauty is that, yeah, she slept for a very long time, but for a lot of us, we don't get the sleep that we need, either in the amount or the quality that's going to truly help us reap the benefits of sleep. So when it comes to sleep, this is a big one for me, Wendy, when it comes to my conversations with clients, because if we're talking about fitness goals, whether it's their, they run a, they want to run a 5k, they want to lift more weights, they want to lose, they want to lose weight. It always comes back down to sleep because if I ask them, okay, well, what did you do for your last workout? Follow-up questions include, what did you do to recover? How long ago was it? And then how did you sleep last night? Right? So if they're telling me, yeah, I don't feel too good. How'd you sleep last night? Right? That, that always winds up being a question. And then ironically enough, more, more often than not, the, you know, someone's not feeling the way they want to feel or performing, they want the way they want to perform. It usually comes down to the fact that they haven't slept, they didn't sleep well that night or the nights or the days leading up to or after the workout. So when it comes to whatever results you want to achieve physically, mentally, dare I say, emotionally, getting, getting your sleep is, is a big factor. I mean, it's, it's one of those that falls like third or fourth on, on people's list of things to think about when it comes to fitness. But if anything, it should be number one or number two. Oh, I agree. And it's one of those things too, where as we dive into the different research and we were looking into it, it's not, oh, I didn't sleep well for four days. I'm going to have a really good night's sleep. And then I'm all going to like, it's all going to catch back up with me. And, you know, we're going to talk a little bit about the slow wave sleep, if you will. And so it's also known as our deep sleep. And I feel like can, you know, this is the hardest for me because it's characterized by high amplitude, low frequency delta waves in your EEG. That's how they're measuring this. And during this slow wave sleep, your brain activity is significantly reduced and your body undergoes the various restoration process, right? So when we're trying to tell people, oh, well, listen, when you're characterized or looking at the, the specific key concepts of what this means, if you don't get a good night's rest for a certain period of time, and you don't get that, you know, like the deep sleep that we're looking for, your body really isn't restoring itself the way that it should. And I mean, when you're thinking through this, and you're like, oh, wait, I woke up, I'm super tired. I've got bags under my eyes. I'm like you said, I'm groggy. I'm an emotional wreck. And, you know, it affects our everyday life. It affects what your reactions. That's the biggest one too, that when you're in the gym, obviously, especially if you're doing like power or you're needing, you're doing exercises that require you to remember patterning and stuff, your sleep has a huge impact on how you're going to perform in the gym. But also when you're driving a car, your reactions of, you know, switching lanes, hitting the brakes, all of a sudden things happen. How quick can you, you react? A lot of it's based on how you sleep. Yeah. And I think a lot, a lot of people don't realize that. Yeah. It's more than just you're, you're, you're in a sleep cycle. You're in and out of deep sleep and shallow sleep, if you will. But that sleep that you talk about, Wendy, that slow wave sleep, that really, really deep sleep, a lot of that, the bulk of that happens earlier in your sleep cycle. So you get into that deep sleep cycle earlier in the night. So quality of your sleep, I would say hinges upon getting a good start to your six, seven, eight out, whatever your time allots for. But that's one thing that I started watching out for when I look at my, how I slept that night, you and I, Wendy, we've talked on, talked about on numerous episodes when it comes to, you know, recovery and sleep always kind of manages to creep its way into the conversation. But when I'm looking at my output on my Garmin app, and it looks at how low I get, I also look at how long a timeframe I am in that, in that cycle. But I've learned that, you know, anywhere between four hours, four hours, you're not going to be in there for four hours, four, 40, 40 minutes to an hour or so is where I wind up being as far as my sweet spot for that, the beginning. And then that's, if I don't get a good start, my, my sleep score tends to go down according to my Garmin who watches over me at night. Uh, yes, I've noticed the same and I can't say my numbers are quite that great either. And, uh, yeah, we'll talk about what happens to you as you age and why that happens. Um, and it's unfortunate because you're probably, if you're like under 40, you're probably getting the greatest amount of sleep that you ever have because after 40 things start to change. I've noticed that too, but you know, when we start talking about this, you know, the slow wave, uh, sleep, we're really looking at what they are talking about as your Delta waves. And when you're looking at when your brain waves are the slowest, right? That's what they're looking at. So it's the frequency of anywhere between 0.5 and four, uh, what they call Hertz. And so when you're, when your body and your brain and everyone hits that actual level, your heart rate, your breathing, your brain temperature, they all decrease, right? Your muscle activity is still present, you know, but you're, you're more relaxed. That's when you're going to see better physical recovery, your body's tissue starts to repair. You're going to get that muscle growth that you're hoping for, and you're going to synthesize the proteins in your body. And so, I mean, thinking about on a restorative process, this is all that's happening within like, Ken, your 40 minutes to an hour, uh, you know, sleep process. And so again, you may be getting other, and there are different types of sleep waves that you have. Like you said, there's the, the deep, deep sleep, but that's really what you're hoping for is how can you increase those numbers? Because if you're sleeping only a few hours and then you get up and use the restroom, or you're sleeping a few hours, you roll over and you're staring at the clock, you're really not giving your body ample time to do the recovery that it's looking for. And that's what really is leading into that groggy next day or next few days. Yeah. And I think when you, what you, when you're talking about that, like you get up, you go to the restroom, whatever, and then you go back to sleep. That's the difference between, um, going to bed and actually going to sleep, right? I was in bed. Yeah. I was in bed, but it wasn't really productive sleep at that point. Now you're talking about body temperature, respiration. Uh, the other thing that I, that I'll throw in there is just your, your heart rate. Right. As far as other things that I watch for. So again, my, my Garmin tells me, you know, where I am in that, in that sleep cycle. Again, there's, there's other wearables that you can, you can use, uh, to monitor sleep, but Garmin is really easy. And the, um, the app that's on my phone kind of tells me what I need to know. But the other thing that I look at when these is my resting heart rate. How low does my resting heart rate go? I know on, um, I think on average, I'm my lowest heart rate gets down to like 50, 52. I've seen 48. Um, but I know that if it's a late night or I'm fatigued or when there's times when I'm able to correlate it to not feeling good, like I'm sick or I'm fighting something, my heart rate can be as high as in the low sixties, high fifties is when I noticed that, um, for me personally, you know, I, I am fighting something. I am, I am not feeling my best. And that's cause my, my body's actually working to try and fight this virus or whatever it is that's going on inside me. Um, but I'll also say that there was a time that I was really, really sick and I happened to be on the road and, um, just fighting this thing. And my body temperature never came down as well. I mean, it got lower, but it was still two, two degrees higher than what it was on average. So I was not saying that I had a low grade fever, but when you're sleeping and you happen to have a wearable, you should be able to see heart rate, respiration, um, HRV, HRV is a big one. Um, body temperature, all of that come down because that just shows you that your body is actually recovering versus still active and still trying to work to get something done. Right. So if you've had one of those nights where you're, you had some, you had a lot of food to eat, uh, uh, right. Or a lot to drink or whatever. And your body's not, your body's actually going to try to digest that food. Or if your sleep is disrupted because you had consumed some alcohol, um, your body's actually really trying to recover. But if those things are happening to you, then it's still working and not fully taking advantage of that downtime. Well, and you're also going to notice too, and I'm going to blame this on sleep. I'm not going to blame this as I'm getting older and I have a lot on my plate and I'm putting sticky notes to remember things, but there's that memory consolidation process that's happening. So think about all these things we're talking about. This was in that short period of that slow wave sleep area. So there's, it's not this long, you're doing this for hours on end when you're sleeping at night, but I wrote this down this, when we're talking about this particular stage of sleep, the stage of sleep that this is, it plays a vital, not just a role, but a vital role and consolidating your memories. So again, your facts and the events from the temporary storage, which again, for those of you guys that can't remember some of the things or never even went through anatomy, that that's what we're calling your hypo campus is the area where the short-term things lie in your brain. We're taking all of that information and turning it into more permanent storage in your cerebral cortex. So when we think, Oh, easily, I remember when I was four and I went and did this and you can, you have it detailed and you know, every little thing that happened in that one moment, you did a really good job taking it from one area of your brain and moving it into that long-term area. Problem is, is if you're not getting a good night's rest and you're not getting into that particular deep sleep, sometimes that memory transfer, if you will, from short term to long term doesn't happen. And then you're like, well, I can't remember anything. And so I've noticed that too. I'm like, what is happening to me? I just did this last week. Or you'll ask me, Wendy, remember when we talked about this? And I'm like, yeah. And you're like, when did we do that? I'm like, I don't recall. And then I got to go look at my notes. Yeah. So I don't know if you've noticed that. I know age also plays a role in this, but that, that amount of deep sleep that you really need for all of these things we're talking about starts to decrease. Yeah. And, and Wendy, I mean, you have, you have some clients that are executives that have to make big decisions and have to read spreadsheets and all this thing. And, and I do too. So when, when it comes to these clients that are highly functioning individuals responsible for a lot for their job, right? There's a lot that they have to remember and, and, and put together as far as decision-making, but I think the other case for it all, when it comes to memory consolidation is, I mean, you've got a family and I've got, I've got my, my two kids as well. So if, if I want them to do well on a test and, you know, remember what they did at school that day, I mean, I guess more to our point, it's like, just remember what you did today in school. So you'll do better for the test. That's, you know, in two days or next week is, you know, it's lights out at eight o'clock at, you know, hopefully. And, um, you know, if you're in bed and you're still kind of tossing around, at least you're in bed. But when it comes to, you know, again, getting up, getting ready for school, going to school and being ready to go when it's time to learn, um, sleep is the biggest thing for, for my kids. And I, the one thing, Wendy, that gets me is when, and you tell me if, if, uh, your little guy says this to you too, but so-and-so gets to stay up till 10 o'clock or till 11 o'clock, or they watched a movie last night. I'm like, how are you watching a movie on a weeknight? Um, I am the same. I say the same, or I love it. Like he's exhausted. He's falling asleep as he's trying to like do something. And I'm like, but it's time for bed. And he's like, but mom, I'm not tired. I'm like, yeah, you are. Like we're going to bed and he'll lay down and he's out like lights out. Right. It doesn't take him long. Once he kind of gets through his stresses for what he's worried about the next day. Cause we, we have that kind of issue going on in our house right now too. Um, but I don't know if you have that going on, but we were experiencing that at nine. Yep. So, but Kim, before we, we start diving in, because I want you to take the next little section. We're going to talk about the magic hormone, if you will, of what they're calling the human growth hormone and what it'll do with sleep. I just want to say that this episode of Random Fit is brought to you by NASM One, the membership for trainers and coaches. Members enjoy unlimited access to hundreds of career resources. Get the edge app to schedule and program clients. Enjoy half off all certifications and specializations. Access free CUs and more. All of this for just $35 a month. Go to NASM.org slash membership to learn more about NASM One. So Ken, let's talk about the human growth hormone. Yeah. Uh, human growth. This is, you don't think about anything outside of being tired, fatigued, and that's why you want to sleep. But overall, when it comes to what is happening while we're sitting, we don't think about hormonally the fluctuations that's going on. So human growth hormone is, is a big one just because if your clients, uh, if you're an exerciser, or if you're a personal trainer who's listening to the Random Fit podcast and, and you're working with people, this is why, this is one of the big reasons why you need to talk about sleep is because one, if it's not just about testosterone that helps you put on muscle, but human growth hormone. So in that deep sleep that we just got done talking about, one of the things that starts to, um, uh, get excreted is, uh, human growth hormone. And what this hormone does is again, the big part of its responsibility is for tissue repair. So outside of the brain, when it comes to memory consolidation and things like, um, uh, reaction time and reflex, what we are talking about is the actual muscle tissue itself. So, um, when it comes to tissue repair, collagen production, fat metabolism, metabolism, again, which is a lot of what our clients are going for, um, when it comes to their, their physical or cosmetic goals. Um, these are the things that are affected by human growth hormone. And Wendy, I know that in the context of some of the clients and athletes that you see, some of them are coming back from injury, right? So when it comes to tissue repair from being injured, uh, there's nothing more important than, um, having more human growth hormone pulsing through your body, um, as you're getting that sleep. So rest and recovery, especially coming from injury is going to be greatly enhanced by getting longer and deeper sleep just because of human growth hormone. Oh, a hundred percent. And I mean, you know, that kind of actually goes hand in hand too, with kind of what, what I saw and a bunch of the information that we looked at, Ken, was the metabolic sabotage too. So, you know, what's happening with your HGH, but then if you think about the fat loss and decreases of disease risks that happen when you don't get, you know, we're all wanting, I shouldn't say we, many people want to lose weight, right? They don't want to be a statistic of type one or type two diabetes. They don't want to gain weight. They want to be able to move. They want to be active. They want to look a certain way. And when you have impaired glucose tolerance, rates for sleep restriction. So if you get less than six hours of sleep, um, this can significantly impair your glucose tolerance and your, and reduces your insulin sensitivity, which I know we've talked about before. And that makes ourselves less responsive to blood sugar regulation. So short-term sleep restriction, um, restriction, it can increase your factor risk factors of type two diabetes by impairing your glucose, uh, metabolism. I mean, we're looking at what ends up happening too with leptin, which is, you know, that signals when we're full, right? So when we eat, we want that, that to happen, right? We need that signal when you don't get into a lot of sleep, then what happens too, we have increased appetite hormones. And so we're going to see an increase of, um, increase of feeling hungry. So it's altering, if you will, your, uh, uh, ghrelin. So that's what simulates hunger or stimulates hunger. So I don't know how many of you guys, I am that person. Like before I go to bed, if I'm just bored and I'm watching television, I'm like, huh, really feel like I want something sweet or, huh, I really feel like I want some kind of, you know, carbohydrate. I'm not doing anything. I don't need to be eating carbs before I go to bed, but I start, you know, my, like, you'll start to see your hormones and different, um, different factors start happening when you're not getting enough sleep, you are tired and you know, you should have gone to bed probably two hours before you're actually in bed. And yeah, so it's, it's a, I would say it's a double-edged sword because you need the hormone. You need to feel hungry. Like what you're saying with, with ghrelin, it tells you when it's, when it's time to eat. And then, you know, the leptin, it tells you when you're full, right? So if you're not getting enough of one and too much of the other, then you're always hungry and you're never satisfied. And that's, that's the, that's the double-edged sword there, uh, when you don't get enough sleep because that, those two hormones are out of whack with each other. So, and that's, and that's not good because when people are, you know, when you're busy or like, um, when we're traveling, Wendy, when you and I are on the road and we're, we're teaching courses, that's the life a lot of our clients lead, right? So if, if they're taking a red eye, again, you're, you're, you're at the airport 10 o'clock at night. So, and then you're trying to sleep on the plane with however many hours you're going to get there. And then you're going to take a nap here, take a shallow sleep. Um, you know, if you're there multiple days, but, and then you throw in, you know, corporate dinners where, um, you're eating whatever, you know, whatever you want in front of you and the idea of, okay, well, I'm hungry, I'm starving. And then you can eat and eat and eat, put it away. And then when my client, and I don't know if you've heard this, Wendy, but my clients come back to me sometimes they're like, oh man, I ate so bad. Wow. Yeah. More so than not. And like, listen, you do this on the daily, because like you said, I mean, I do have a lot of CEOs, you know, dinners and breakfasts and lunches, they always have meetings over food and in your choices are going to truly impact what's having, you know, what you're doing over time. So think about the, the amount of calories you're consuming. Most of this stuff might be, especially if they're nice restaurants that taste really good because it's smothered and, and a lot of butter, or there might be a really good wine on the table, you know, so all of that is going to play a huge role, but that's also going to then factor in when you're trying to lay down, especially if you even have one or two glasses of wine. I don't know, Ken, if you experienced this, but for me, when I have wine, I love it, love it. Like, and I'm a huge cab fan, love it. But when I'm in like, I feel like I'm just sweating to death when I lay down, what is happening? My body's trying to metabolize that. I'm not used to drinking like that, especially doing that and then going to bed. So there are going to be factors that are happening as your body is trying to metabolize the things that you're choosing to eat or drink long-term. And then, you know, we, you and I have talked about this too, even moving forward into something, especially because again, I also work with a lot of athletes. The one key thing that I tell them, not only, you know, how their body's responding. And like, like you said, the, you know, HGH is, is a huge factor, especially in recovery. But another thing too, is that central nervous system, like reset, if you will, in the brain. I think that's a, that's also the key time because that's the only time when you're sleeping that your brain can down regulate the activity, which we're all about down regulating activity and overactive things, right? That's what we do in our NASM curriculum. We grab a foam roller to down regulate overactivity. Can't do that with our brain. So our foam roller for the brain basically is sleep. And we need that time to actually let our brain just kind of slow itself down. So therefore it's kind of buffers against all the training that we've done, or, you know, especially when we put a lot of stress. I mean, we talked about that in episode one, we need that stress to be just right. Well, now that we're in episode five, talking about sleep, that just right is going to also mean just right of the amount of sleep you need for your body to truly recover and to benefit from the training stress, because that's, what's going to make us faster. That's what's going to build that muscle. That's, you know, what are the goals? Well, sleep's going to help you get to those goals. And that's usually easiest way I can kind of get in there about sleep. And then I start, you know, sprinkling in all the other stuff we mentioned before. Yeah. And again, you know, my kids are young and they're, we try to expose them to different sports and different activities. And if my, my son, he's learning to throw with, with a new technique or bat with a new technique, or this is my daughter with water polo and learning a new technique, the biggest thing I tell them, it's like, this is where the nervous system starts to kind of form to the habits and the skills that you just practice that day. So if you want to do, you know, if you want to do better tomorrow or the next time you're doing that skill, that nervous system has to be wired the right, you have to reinforce the wiring and the habits and the techniques and the timing and the synergies, if you will, when it comes to the coordination of the muscles, when it comes to moving a certain way, throwing with a certain timing in a sequence. Um, that's, that's the big part. Uh, again, that's all related to the nervous system. And, and a lot of people don't realize when you like you, and I love that when you, you talk about, you know, sleep is the, the foam rolling for the brain. You can't, can't foam roll the brain, but, uh, you need some way to kind of keep it loose and keep it limber and keep it malleable, but also reinforcing the right, um, you know, the right reflexes. But, um, when it comes to cleaning out the brain, you know, one of the things that, you know, a lot of people don't realize is that just like you have the lymphatic system in your body, which takes away, um, you know, all the waste, right. From, from your system, right. Through your fluids, your, your brain has the same thing in there as well called the glymphatic system. And that's what helps kind of keep the, you know, cleans out the brain of, of byproducts. So I, I think that, you know, when we talk about, you know, memory consolidation reflexes and, and coordination and trying to remember certain skills, the glymphatic system is, is one other way to kind of make sure that the claim that the brain is, is basically firing on all cylinders by making sure that it's clean, clearing things out that don't need to be there. Yes. Clean out the brain. I should do that. We clean, we do spring cleaning with our closets and other things on the daily, but you know, I think the other, the other, well, my last point, I mean, I don't know if you have any other ones too, but you kind of mentioned it, you know, the emotional side. And I know this because if I don't sleep well, things that I could usually just kind of throw to the side that wouldn't really cause me a lot of like anxiety or anger sometimes, uh, I noticed is that as, is that a high when I don't get a lot of sleep? Like it takes me, like, I have to think of my daily life and the stressors that are just there. And I've always had to deal with certain things that happen because things happen in life every day. And some is going to be great. Some things are not going to be so great. And it's how your mood and you're able to just deal and process with what's going on around you. And, you know, if you don't get a good night's sleep, you're not able to deal with certain things and maybe a non-emotional way. If you don't get a good night's sleep, sometimes you will become more upset faster. You will start, you know, lashing out at people when you normally would not. Um, you start to kind of have more of a negative look on life versus that positive outlook. And so just realize that if you've noticed that, you know, your personality is changing, that you're, you know, somebody has said, what's wrong with you just seem on edge all the time. That's when you really need to take a step back and look at your own sleep schedule and having the, the technology, like you said, I've got my Garmin. I have an Oura ring. I have a lot of different things. It tells me a lot of information about myself. And, um, I have found it to be super helpful because I'm seeing trends, not necessarily on a good level, but also like things that I can do better. But if I didn't have that information in front of me, I think, um, I think I'd be missing some stuff because it's really opened my eyes to see, to see, especially when we do these podcasts, I'm like, Oh man, check, check, check, you know, need to need to be better here or there. And then trying to figure out ways to, to, to do that. Yeah. I mean, it's, it's, um, it's, it's, it's, I want to say it's something that I kind of correlate when, when my kids are in a bad mood. Like I always think, okay, how did they, how did they sleep last night? Right. And I think, okay, well I could, I could pretty much point the finger at sleep most of the time when they're like, especially in the afternoons when, yeah, actually they've gone through it through school. And then it's like, what kind of, you know, how much gas do they have left in the tank emotionally? And then if, if it turns out they didn't have a lot of gas left, that's like, well, it's, you know, they, they slept for only six hours when my kids can easily sleep 10 to 12. If you, if you leave them in a dark, cool room, you'll, I'm waking them up by lunchtime. Oh, we're not there yet. Mine still isn't. The, their clock is set for a certain time. And with time, time Jones and time changes and stuff, everything gets out of whack. So yeah. So some, it's, I mean, he is on, on it and if not, it's within 30 minutes. So we're not quite there yet. No, that's like, I have to put a mirror, put a mirror under my, my son's nose and make sure he's still, it's like, he's still sleeping. His brain has a lot of cleaning to do though, I think is, is what, what? He needs to downregulate a lot. He needs to downregulate a lot. So I think, you know, when it comes down to it, if you're, if you're going to be more like sleeping beauty, I mean, she fell asleep because she, she ate an apple, but if you're going to kind of, if you're going to get yourself there, you know, you just have to build the right habits, try and go to sleep at the same time. Follow your body's rhythms and, you know, build a habit because once the body feels a certain synchronization with the clock, like say nine o'clock, you start doing the habits, right? Turn off the blue light, stop watching TV, put your phone away, start doing something to where your brain can kind of downregulate, calm down, get in the mood to go to sleep. And that way that super deep sleep, um, in the beginning, your body's better groomed for that because you've given yourself plenty of time to kind of downregulate, get that, get the waves going and that, uh, get the brain going into those Delta waves, but also making sure that you give yourself that opportunity at least to get the seven to eight hour sleep. So not only do you get the depth, but you get the length of sleep that you need. So with that, maybe you don't have to sleep for a very long time or wait for Prince Charming, but you can get the benefits that, uh, sleeping beauty had. So Wendy, I, I enjoyed this, uh, these five episodes for the, uh, fairytale fitness, um, storylines. Um, hopefully, hopefully our viewers got something out of it. I hope so too. And it was, you know, think about this. If it just, if you're my age, it was kind of nice to kind of go back and think, Oh, I remember that. Oh, I remember that story. And, and so when you start to see the parallels of why we put those together, hopefully you guys think it's, uh, you know, that you enjoyed it as well. It's just something different. Yes, definitely was. So thanks for Eddie, for going on this fairytale journey with me. Uh, and thank you listeners of random. Yeah. I'm going down this, this, uh, memory lane of, of these fairytale fitness stories. So if you liked them all, or if you haven't watched them all, go back to the other episodes, three pigs, uh, Jack of a beanstalk and go through all the episodes and see what you can glean from them when it comes to your fitness journey. So all we ask is that you like, follow, subscribe, download, give us a five out of five rating when you can, and let us know what other topics you want us to talk about on other episodes of random fit. So until next time, everybody take care and be well.