 lescarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcarcar friends and family and leave a five-star review. Now here's the episode laying the groundwork for doing virtual sessions. You're listening to the NASM CPT podcast with Rick Ritchie, winner of the Share Care Emmy Award for social storytelling and the official podcast of the National Academy of Sports Medicine. Hey y'all and welcome to the NASM CPT podcast. My name is Rick Ritchie and this today is the first time I'm back in my house doing these podcasts. Now if you just listen to the podcast you probably have no idea that I even changed locations but I do it in the gym now but today I'm doing it back from home and I'm going to share with you why. Today is a snow day here in NYC. Now a lot of you will be listening to this in April or in June and you have like this is not an evergreen episode but the idea behind what I want to talk about is because we're going to talk about laying the groundwork for doing virtual sessions. I you know it's 15 inches of snow overnight in New York City and this town is shut down and so when I was talking to some of my clients they said hey let's do virtual sessions this morning. Nice. Why do they say that? Because I laid the groundwork for doing virtual sessions but for those of you who are on YouTube here come with me just for a second you're going to get a brief little look out the window. Let's see. There you go. That is that is my the 15 inches of snow there so it's been a beautiful beautiful experience but let's be honest this is getting in the way of business and this is why laying the groundwork for doing virtual sessions is really important. Now before we get into talking about who this is good for let's just talk momentarily about who virtual remote or online training sessions may not be good for. Now this isn't programming. Programming is something that you write out and that you deliver to your clients and they really just do it on their own. Virtual training is training one-on-one like I'm doing right now into this camera. So you set them up you put them on FaceTime or a Zoom or whatever and you watch them work out just like you would do at a session. The problem is there's some things that get in the way and people who this may not be good for. Number one I had a guy years ago and he moved away. Unfortunately I miss him so much but he came to me initially his daughter reached out because his balance was so poor and because he had poor balance we started working together and when he moved away people were saying oh are you going to do virtual or remote sessions with him and I said no and the reason why is that after eight years of working with this person who is now in his early 90s he does not need to be doing a session without somebody present. The balance is not good enough and so therefore I would say it'd be dangerous to actually do a virtual session or a remote session with people like this person who has poor balance and he's not the only one. I've trained several clients who are older and to be honest it's not their age because I have several clients who are older whose balance is fine but those with poor balance they're ones that you have to really be aware of. It can be very concerning and virtual sessions probably not great ideas for sessions. Now can you adjust? Yes but I think most of the time that would be such a concern that they would need to have something in their hand or they'd have to be seated or do core work on the floor the entire time and I want to work balance with people who need balance help so I actually encourage this person to get a trainer out in Los Angeles where he lives now so that they can help him with his balance. So virtual or online sessions not great for people with poor balance or people that require that have conditions that require you to be present. Now poor balance is an example of that. Some people have vertigo they might need your help. Some people have instability when they're holding weights and you need to be there to spot them. People who lift heavy weights they don't have heavy weights at home most likely and if they do have heavy weights at home you are not there to spot them. So I think that those would be sessions that yeah obviously you could adjust it but just be aware that some of those sessions will not be part of the program. So if I have people and I have a guy that does heavy weight but when we're at home it's more of an endurance and conditioning day. Anyone that has a significant medical condition that is very important that you're present or that there's an oh oh oh and this reminds me if you have somebody who has uh that you train remotely and they live on their own or their home alone when you do your sessions you need to have an emergency phone number for them. So as they're working out if they start to go into uh I don't know a heart attack for example that's something that needs to be addressed that you need to have something online you need to have their address where they are so that you can call 9-1-1 and that can be addressed from you. Obviously your 9-1-1 where you are and where they are not the same but hopefully there is um a connection there where they can they can find the emergency responders in that area and send them. So just be aware of that the location so that you can be on top of it. Um I will say this and this one I don't care for very much but it is true some people just don't like doing it. They don't like the idea of doing it. Most people that say they don't like it have never done an online session with me. They just don't like the idea of doing it. They don't like the idea of spending that kind of money where they're at home and doing an exercise routine. Now I pride myself that we can get just as good of a workout not the same type of workout but a great workout with very minimal equipment even body weight if we do it occasionally. Now if we're going to do more than occasionally I do like to have uh equipment on hand at home whether it's a suspension trainer and bands and a mini loop those kind of things can be very very helpful when it comes to doing these virtual sessions. Um and if you've got people who don't like it I will also say this just consider the idea of doing one for free with your clients that you train regularly. I don't like the idea of just doing free sessions for people but I have a person that I train regularly and she doesn't like the idea of doing virtual sessions so just throwing it out there like hey let's do it for free. Let's just do one see if you like it and if you do great because I'm at home on a snow day. If it I'm not doing anything let's do a session let's do it for free and if it works for you going forward when we have things like this she can be at her home in Connecticut and I can be here in New York and we can still get a session in. All right I want to point out that this episode of the NASM CPT podcast is brought to you by NASM1 the membership for trainers and coaches. Members enjoy unlimited access to hundreds of career resources. Get the Edge app to schedule and program clients. Enjoy half off all certifications and specializations. Access to free CEUs and more. All of this for just $35 a month. Go to nasm.org slash membership to learn more about NASM1. All right let's talk about it. Who are virtual remote online sessions good for? Number one because of the importance of the moment. Snow days. So here I have snow days. Now my producer Eric I don't think he does. I don't think he does. He's on the other end of this call right now. Always here. Always looming. Always listening. Hearing me talk about snow days and he's based in Phoenix. So I'm not sure he's ever seen snow. Well at least not in Phoenix. So for me here in the northeast sometimes there are snow days. People aren't getting out. It's a great opportunity. I'll also point this out. This is probably the most. I have travelers. People who travel. I've got folks that go on business trips. One gentleman goes on business trips regularly especially into the UK. And so when he's in the UK we normally train at 7 a.m. New York City time which makes it 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12. Yep 12 o'clock noon for him. And yeah sometimes he gets caught up and can't do the session. But for most of the times when we schedule the sessions it's noontime. It's lunchtime for him. So he can sneak away from the work. Go into the hotel gym and he gets the workout in. So he travels and he stays on his program as best as possible. So I'm looking forward to the idea of you planting a seed. And we'll talk about these seed planting moments. So we've got people who travel. Now that's a work trip. We also have people that travel for vacation. He is also very very good at doing this while he's on vacation. He gets up still in the morning before the family gets up and he does his workout with me in an online session. And then he meets up with his family, goes to breakfast, and goes out on the adventure of the day. Now I've got one person who does not do vacation with me. Right? So he when he's on vacation he's vacationing. But when he's on work trips he is with me all the time. We don't miss a beat usually. So finding those people that you are planting these seeds with and say oh you're going to go home. You're going to I'm sorry you're going to go on a work trip. You're going to go on a vacation. Do you still want to try to get some sessions in? And then I'd say the other one are people who have second homes. Now again I'm in New York City. I'm in Manhattan. There are a lot of people in the summer who just disappear into the Hamptons. Right? So they're gone for months in the summer. And I am so envious. Oh good for you. Here I am in the city and I'm more than willing to still do sessions with you. So if you are out you are traveling and you are going to your second home. I have somebody with that home upstate. Somebody with a home in Connecticut. Somebody with a home in Pennsylvania and in New Jersey. I have most of those people who are are willing to do these virtual online sessions. And let's talk about why. Why? Because it keeps them on schedule. Keeps them on schedule. And this is something that's very helpful for not just you but for them. Because as we know taking a week off it you feel the difference when you come back. I know I take a week off from from doing basically like I don't know legs. And then I come back in a week and all of a sudden when I do legs my legs are like nah let's just keep not doing them. So when I come back I try not to miss leg day for sure. So that always keeps me on point. And I point that out with my clients as well. So that way it minimizes soreness when you do get back. It keeps the progress going. Our goal is to not just do maintenance but to also continue with our progress. So let's keep progress going. Especially if you're in a place where your diet's going to be a little bit different. Then it's going to be a bit more lush shall we say. Then maintaining your movement and your exercise I think is vital just in general. But you know a lot of people say oh I'm on vacation and we're going to do a lot of walking. That's great. Love it. Keep that activity. If we can do a virtual session let's do it. If not enjoy your time. Let's also think about this. It keeps your session count up. And that's helpful because it allows you to get paid still even though they're not there. You're still committing the hour time. They're still committing the hour time. There's no commute. You just pull up your your phone and you go right to it. Now I will say it also possibly allows you to do more than just in-person sessions right. So and I'm not talking about obviously it lets you do more than just in-person sessions. But I'm talking about let's say your 20 sessions a week that you do with your people. I've been training a couple people that don't live in New York. I never see them for one-on-one in-person sessions. We do weekly virtual sessions and that's a great opportunity for me to work with people. Some are personal trainers who have found me through the podcast and said hey can you do sessions with me. Absolutely. Absolutely. So this allows me to have more sessions throughout the week than just my one-on-one in-person people that there are people that aren't even close to me that I train regularly because they do virtual sessions. Now how do we start to plant this seed? First of all I just come out with it like hey I know that we have an upcoming snow day or we have an upcoming whatever. So you're going to be taking a week off and or your kids are out of school and it's going to be hard for you to get back into the gym for this week or over the summer. What do you think about maybe doing some virtual sessions? What about online? And some people will oh I don't really know. Just say it if you're willing to to give the time just say hey let's do one for free. Let's just do one see what you think and if you like it let's keep going. Now if I had somebody that just calls me out of the the blue that reaches out and says hey I live in Colorado. I love your podcast. I want to do a session with you. Can we do that one for free? No that's not what I do. The people I already train in person I'm willing to say let's try one for free so we can keep your program going. People who are new that say oh you're a personal trainer. I'd like to train with you. Can we do a sample? That's I don't do that. I don't do that. I'm I'm good at my job and so anytime you do that you don't just go and say hey can you I want to I want to get some woodworking done. Can you just do me a sample cabinet? No you can see what my work is. You can see my pedigree. You can see what we've put together when it comes to the body of work. And so there are no free sessions except for the people I already work with to say let's give something new a try. And that then allows you to say yes now we can continue training ongoing even while you're away because you're gonna love it. But also that means for you take some time and really focus on what it is you plan on doing because you need to have a couple things. You need to know what their inventory is. I got some people that have in-home gyms. When they go to their second home there's a gym in that home and we do basically everything that we can do at the gym at their home gym. But I've got some people that have a suspension trainer maybe and bands. And that's great but I need to know that in advance so I can come up with ideas for what it is that we're going to do when it comes to your workout. So try to get that in advance. When it also comes to planting seeds if you already train somebody remotely I would just say you know for the person who comes in after Stuart I'd be like Terry guess what? So Stuart's not here today we just did an online session or we're about to jump into a virtual session which he tries to do every time he's out of town. Let me know also when you go out of town next if you want to do a virtual session like Stuart does then that's something that we could potentially set up. But I'll talk to you about it later. I got to go and run a jump in session. So here you are just planting the seed just letting people know that that is a possibility. And from the jump they might be thinking nah it's not how I want to spend my money. But when it comes back again just be like man there's such a great workouts that we can do online. Again just let me know if that's something you want to do. If you get pushback then say hey and what if you don't want to do a free session great. What do you think about doing like half price a discount one just to see what it's like. So that way you are building the opportunity with the base of clients that you already have. Now some people and I know they do this they're like I would never do a free session for anybody. I will for my clients if it means that they train more. So give me the opportunity to give you an example of trying something new and if it works for you great and if it doesn't no harm no foul. What I did is gave up an hour of my time to see if I can get somebody who already comes to see me one two three times a week to come in even more while they're out of town or while I'm out of town. Now one of the things I get a lot when it comes to this topic is what do you charge? I charge the exact same amount. So if somebody let's say they buy a package and they're doing sessions and one of the sessions is virtual they don't get a discount session. I don't charge discounts for my virtual sessions. I will do one complimentary to see if I can get you in the door but I don't discount my virtual sessions. I can give you a good workout. I can still see you. I can still cue you. Is it the same? Not necessarily but the value is there on multiple ways. One is you don't have to come into the gym. It takes you 30 minutes to get to the gym, change clothes and then to get cleaned up, maybe shower, get back home or get back to work. That's another 30 minutes. It takes you two hours to do a one hour session with me. Here what do you do? You just show up online, flip your computer open, put your phone on a tripod or lean it against a kettlebell as one of my guys does and then we jump into a session. These things make it easier for us to be able to continue working where we don't miss the program. We keep everybody on schedule. The progress keeps coming. Your session count stays up. It allows you to get paid and it allows you to do more than just the in-person sessions. I charge the same. I suggest that you do the same too. Now, think about it and start planting the seeds. Start trying to get people to understand that you can provide value and not just doing face-to-face sessions. You're still with them. You still see them. You're still engaging with them. You're still watching their form. You're watching their technique. It will change because you will not be able to spot them. You will not be able to hand off the weights to them. Some things will have to change including potentially the amount of weight that people are lifting or the exercises based on the safety, including things like whether or not there are balance issues or concerns, whether or not they're lifting heavy regularly. Now, you're moving them back into an endurance phase at least while they're not face-to-face with you so that you can continue to work with your clients. All right. Y'all, thanks for listening. Thanks to our producer, Eric Sorensen. And if you don't mind, like, share, subscribe, and leave a five-star review. And if you want to reach out to me, you can hit me up on Instagram at dr.rickrichie or email me rick.richie at nasm.org. Y'all keep inspiring people to fitness. Thanks for listening. This has been the NASM CPT Podcast.