 If you need your hip replaced, the only question you're going to ask yourself is, why did it take me so long to do it? You don't have to walk around in pain, you can get your life back. I usually ask you, is this a nuisance? that you can put up with, or has this a nuisance? Or has this a nuisance? Or has this started to take the joy out of everyday things? If that's the case, it's reasonable to think about. We start where you want to start. Some people have come in having had no treatment already whatsoever. Some people have already had everything up to surgery. And so, we take it on a case by case and we gear everything towards your goals. It really is an amazing surgery. Got to the hospital at 5.30, I was home by 1.30. Hi, Jamie! Good to see you! You too! I was smooth and went according to plan. And she went home the same day. It wasn't painful. It was a little discomfort. But pain was when I didn't have the hip replaced. That was painful. One of the reasons hip replacements at Duke is so successful is because each of us as surgeons, trainers, nurses, the OR staff, the therapists, are dedicated solely to hip replacements and knee replacements. We know how to get it done efficiently, how to get it done well. We have partners who operate at the main hospital, at Arrington Surgery Center, at Duke Regional Hospital, and also at Duke Raleigh. And so, wherever you are in the Triangle area, we have an expert who's waiting for you. I think I did, what, Monday? Maybe 60 squats? I can do anything I was doing before. If you're hurting and bothered and not living the life you want to live, then see one of us. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I'm boring. I think I boring. I think I boring boring. I think I boring boring. I think I boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring boring