 mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel Today, we are diving into the world of cancer vaccines, what they are, do they, and how do they prevent and treat cancer, and what's on the horizon. I am absolutely thrilled to be joined today by my colleague and friend, Dr. Zachary Hartman, who is in the Department of Surgery. So, Zach, thanks so much for joining me. It's great to be here. Thanks for having me. I'd like to start with just, you know, when most of us think of vaccines, we think of the flu shot or pneumonia vaccine. Can you tell us a little bit about what a cancer vaccine is and how that might be different? Sure. So, for a lot of infectious disease, we use vaccines as a way to really train your immune system to go after that particular virus or bacteria or pathogen. And really what we're doing in cancer vaccines is we're really trying to train your body to go after the cancer cells. This is, like, incredible, right? I think, you know, as a treating oncologist, I always say the most important things that I do is to keep my patients with me for as long as possible, and as well as possible. But chemotherapies, they're no free lunch. No, there's a cost. You know, sometimes life-threatening side effects. Right. And so the idea that we can now leverage our immune system is just so remarkable and exciting. Can you talk to us a little bit about how these vaccines may help us treat cancer? Yeah, sure. I mean, your immune system is constantly surveilling your body for anything kind of abnormal. So if you have emerging kind of early-stage cancers, a lot of times it will eliminate it, and you'll never even know you had anything. I want to highlight that because I tell my patients that all the time. We all have cancer cells in our body. Yeah, there's tons of mutations that you carry. It happens. Almost cancer, but our immune systems are like, okay, I'm going to take care of it. We're going to wipe it out. It evolves in a certain way and avoids the immune system and can suppress actively the immune system. That's usually when it's very well situated to prevent immune responses. So when we're giving a vaccine, we're trying to promote that immune response. And I like to kind of use the analogy, it's like a car. We're kind of pushing on the accelerator, and we're directing it, you know, to where we want to go. The goal and the promise of immune-based therapies is if you can train your body's immune system to go after the cancer, you could potentially eradicate it. We have a study coming out pretty soon where we followed patients that received a vaccine back around 2000. They all had advanced metastatic breast cancer, and we followed up almost 20 years later, and they were all doing really well. We tested to see if they still had immune responses against the target that we were vaccinating against, and they did. So then we're interested in, like, taking that forward more into the clinic, trying to use those kinds of strategies, seeing what we can learn and use to, you know, have more effective anti-tumor therapies. So, you know, can we make vaccines better? Can we deliver them earlier? What targets do we need to go after? And how can we mesh these types of approaches with standard-of-care therapies? Let's talk about the side effects of the treatment and then exactly what it is. I mean, is it just a shot in the arm and any side effects that you worry about? I think the vast majority of vaccine-based studies are done, yeah, by intramuscular administration. So it's no different than going and get your flu shot or your, you know, COVID vaccine. And, you know, the side effects have been, for vaccines, very mild. It might be a really easy way of stimulating immunity without paying that much of a penalty and really directing it more specifically against cancer. Do we have vaccines that actually prevent cancer from developing in the first place? There are a few that are clinically approved and on the market that prevent cancer effectively. So like HPV, the human papilloma virus, we have a vaccine Gardasil, which prevents that virus from really taking root. So because that virus can really never take off, it can never really cause cancers. There's a lot of, you know, early interest in trying to prevent the development of cancer. There are a couple of different clinical trials occurring right now. There are some patients with Lynch syndrome, and they have these mutations that really give rise to lots of colorectal and other kinds of cancers. And one approach is to do a lot of sequencing of everybody's, you know, cancer who has Lynch syndrome. We've identified, you know, mutations that commonly occur. Can we vaccinate those patients and develop immune responses to allow the immune system to understand and target those kinds of cells as they arise? So then those patients would never get cancer. And I think we're working on BRCA and other kinds of signatures and trying to see if can we can we put it in a prevention setting? And also, could we use it as a treatment modality for patients that already have cancer? So to recap, if you may have an inherited gene from mom and dad, there are different types of that. One is the BRCA mutation, as you said. The other is called Lynch, which is another sort of type of inherited gene that could pass. There's actually opportunities to develop vaccines so that even though they're at high risk to develop cancer, by doing that, they can actually prevent it from developing the many cancers they're at risk for. That's right. And then even if cancers develop, another approach that we've been interested in is, you know, a lot of times we'll put them on certain therapies. And if they're on a certain therapy and they become resistant to that therapy, there are a lot of common mutations that occur. Could we vaccinate patients against those mutations before they arise? So where do you see the most promise in these vaccines in the world of diseases, like in these different types of cancers that we provide? You talked about breast cancer as one, as a promising disease. Any other areas that you think that we've seen already that there could be, you know, more promise or more efficacy that we're starting to see? Oh, yeah. I mean, there's lots of cancers that have kind of dysregulation and have, you know, mutations in them or proteins that would kind of lend themselves to be a pretty good target. There are some cancers that have been more sensitive to the immune system. So like melanoma tends to have a lot of things that can kind of activate immunity. I think there's a lot of other cancers like prostate and breast that there might already be anti-androgen therapies or anti-estrogen therapies. Can we make those work better? And I think there's a lot of cancers with, you know, fairly poor prognosis like pancreatic, where we haven't really been able to make end rows. But we're working on that now and really trying to understand like, OK, well, how are how are these cancers able to resist the immune system? And what can we do to improve that? Yeah. And I think that the pancreas studies that we have now in the vaccine space are fascinating, right? Like, as you said before, that the immune system can recognize it, but it probably can recognize it with a certain what we call tumor burden, right? Right. Where you can't have a lot of cells. Right. Because then it just overwhelms the system. So for many of our patients with advanced or stage four disease, it may be a little bit too high burden. Is that big? Yeah. I think it's kind of I always think of it in evolutionary terms. It's like if you had a if you had a population of cockroach and you want to eliminate them, like if it's small, it'd be easier. They populate entire island and there's all this diversity. Then that's going to be a little hard. But I would say with pancreatic cancer, there are some trials that are going on right now where they're sequencing patients, tumors, identifying the mutations, making a custom vaccine, giving to those patients. And prostate cancer has got a very poor outcome. But those patients in these early clinical trials have done pretty well. I think that the idea, like you said, of this trial where we're actually personalizing that vaccine based on the protein that we could identify in their tumor is incredibly helpful. I think all these advancements in medicine in terms of better and easier sequencing and be able to identify things from the blood, like tumor circulating cells and mutations within those. And I think in cancer, that's kind of where I see it going is we're going to get better and better at typing them. And we'll have, you know, tools in the toolkit to kind of like, okay, oh, you've got this kind of cancer. We can give you this, this, and this. And that combination is probably going to be our most effective strategy of eliminating the cancer. And the earlier is probably better. I totally agree. So for the last 20 years, I've been caring for patients with cancer. And never have I felt so excited about the technology and the innovation and some of the beautiful science that you're explaining, right? But a lot of it is for our patients of tomorrow. What about our patients now that have these diseases that are devastating? Where is their access for those cancer vaccines today? I think for the most part, most cancer vaccines right now are still really in the clinical trial phase. I've had a lot of patients contact me about potential clinical trials. We have some that are kind of occurring at Duke, and I think we're interested in starting up some new ones. But I think a good resource is really just to kind of go to clinicaltrials.gov and, you know, put in your cancer and see if there is a vaccine trial going on, and would you be eligible to enroll in that? And I think it's an important point that, you know, we need patient involvement in those things. I've been on the recruiting side, and sometimes it's difficult to find the right patients. And the more patients that we can enroll, the faster we can get those sorts of answers, the faster we can, you know, potentially get those therapies to more patients. So I think right now it's still kind of more in the experimental phase, in the early clinical trial phase, mid-clinical trial phase. But my hope is that within the next five or 10 years, we'll have more approvals. Most of the studies right now are still in the experimental, but they're there, and they're happening. And so we're hoping to open more in the future here at Duke and beyond. So I love the idea of going to clinicaltrials.gov, putting in vaccine plus the disease that you need. Whatever you have, yeah. And to see what, if anything, could be offered. We have had, I would say, periods in science over the last decades where we were like, we're going to cure cancer. Targeted therapies, right? You know, we have not cured the thousands of cancers that we unfortunately still have today. Do you see vaccine therapy as a way to really disrupt the way we deliver treatment and or prevent cancers from developing? Yeah. I think given enough time, it will certainly depend on the type of cancer it is. I don't think there is ever going to be a universal kind of vaccine that would prevent all sorts of cancers. But I think what will happen is we'll develop vaccines that will be used in combination with lots of other therapies normally in the clinic. And then there may be a lot of classes of cancer that we would be able to prevent or at least sort of mitigate the number that arise. And I think why I'm very bullish on vaccines is they are very safe. And if we can exploit their efficacy. I mean, we've seen it in, you know, infectious disease. We've eliminated kids aren't in our lungs anymore, which is great. And I think that that's a really testament to science and what we've done. And then can we do that same sort of thing on the cancer side of things? And if we're able to do that, then could we prevent a lot of people from developing any kind of cancer? Can we make treatments more effective? Could we make side effects less? Could we make the treatments that we have work long? Like all those kinds of things. I think vaccines are kind of a good bet to do that kind of thing. I could not agree more. I think it's a great bet. We are so thrilled that you're doing this important work. I think we're all on the same team. And I'm really appreciative of what you do. This is the type of science and collaboration that helps really move the ball down the field, right? That's what we want. In a very exciting way. Yes, certainly. Thank you so much for joining us. Well, thank you for having me.