 Hi, Andrew, it's Bombi! Hi, Andrew, it's Bombi! You're not here yet, but we are 21 weeks. I love you. I was in the shower, and in my right armpit, I felt about the size of a pea, a lump. Invasive ductal carcinoma between stage two and three. I think the initial reaction was just complete and utter shock, and then the immediate next reaction was terror. So here you are. We are on the countdown. As I'm talking to you right now, I can feel you moving. I'm so excited to meet you, my guys! Love you! Hear the fire, hear whatever time what may, put a chance at loving you, I'll take it all the way. A mastectomy was really hard, but I knew, for me, that I really wanted to be intentional about feeling as much myself as I could. The choice was natural to do reconstruction. We've moved a lot toward not only being effective with removing the cancer for treatment, but also restoring the body. For a lot of women, breasts are a sense of confidence and femininity and their ability to be intimate with their partner. Some women choose to have reconstruction, some women choose not to have reconstruction. But just knowing your options going into the mastectomy is so critical. We really do have every tool in the toolbox for women who are opting for breast reconstruction. We have surgeons who offer direct-to-implant and aesthetic flat closure, Goldilocks procedures, using different parts of your body to make a breast, like abdomen, thighs, lower back. People come with different ideas and different priorities, and I think it's our job to figure out what those priorities are and how we can help them get the best cancer outcome, but also maintain what's really important to them. We're really lucky here at Duke that the plastic and reconstructive surgeons have a really good relationship with the breast surgeons. So we are in constant communication with the breast team, both discussing what surgical options are for the patient, timing of the surgery, and just moving everything along as quickly as we can. I wanted it to be something that was freeing and liberating. One of the breaking points for me in deciding what procedure and then what size that I wanted was, I was like, well, you know what, to heck with this. Why don't I just try them on? And Dr. Naxx that allowed me to take the implant from my hand to place it in my bra. It made it oh so real to me. And then I felt like we were all truly in connection towards the same results. Typically, we try to do reconstruction the same day as the mastectomy. It saves the patient from having a surgery. Patients feel better psychologically when they wake up with something that resembles a breast. Oftentimes we will work at the same time as the breast surgeon. The nice part about that is it can decrease the amount of anesthesia time that a patient needs. We did the surgery and she had a great response. One thing for sure is that I am cancer free and I'm going to stay that way. When I look down, I can still see my own birthmarks and I can still see the beauty that I am. And I'm just so grateful to both of these women who not only saved my life but really gave me more life to look forward to. Pesos mommy, pesos! Slammy! Yeah! Even too much too much too much too much too much too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too too