 derogrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrunrun everywhere. It's in the air we breathe, the water we drink, the clothes we wear. Joining me today is my dear friend and colleague, Dr. Jason Samorelli, who has spent his career and scientific focus on the question of what plastics can do to us and our body, as well as to our environment. So Jason, thank you so much for all you do and for joining me. Thanks, Diane. Thanks for bringing light to this. I thought I would just start off in just full honesty and transparency. How bad is it? How bad is it? That's a big question. One student gave me this really helpful statistic, which is there's one garbage truck of plastic disposed of per second. If you just look around your house and your rooms, your offices, you'll see it's everywhere. Terrifying. Um, it's terrifying. Plastic is really a group of polymers. Polymers is just like building blocks one after another, after another. And then there's the added complexity of the things that we put in the plastic to give it different properties. You might think of, um, those black plastic spatulas that you flip your pancakes with. And so like, that's, that's a dye that's in it. There's also a flame retardant. So those class of chemicals are called additives. I see. So there's many kinds of plastic. There's 10,000 or more additives. And then there's things, once it hits the environment, there's things that latch onto the plastic because of its properties. And they're then transported all over. So plastic is really this broad catch all term for both the solid chemical, uh, the solid polymer and all of its chemical. We're ingesting between hundreds of thousands and millions of these particles every year, every year, year after year, this is happening. So you have to think about when you're testing this, not only the actual plastic, but everything that's around it that could be carcinogenic or cancer causing or other health. That's right. And it's everywhere we look in our body. So it's in things that you wouldn't expect it to be in like placentas, breast milk, um, our brains. It's, um, associated with dementia. It's in the immune cells that are in our hearts and the amount of plastic in our immune cells in our heart is correlated with heart attack and other cardiac events. Share with us what type of work could even get to the understanding of, is it a bystander or passenger in that process? Yeah. Or maybe it really can be linked to these different diseases. Right. At, at this moment, and, and you're so right, is it causative or is it just an association that has some other linked cause underlying it? It could totally be. But what people have done and are doing is they're doing rodent studies. So they're understanding sort of deeply in controlled experiments that if I feed rodents tons and tons of plastic, I see, you know, Parkinson's like disease and I see, you know, inflammation in the gut. And then our world was just cancer. There's a really great study with fish. They fed these plastics to fish and found liver cancer. There's also workplace, uh, exposure evidence. So people who are in, uh, manufacturing for plastic have higher rates of many of these cancers. And so, you know, we think that's an association. I think the cancer connection is, um, more squarely with additives. I see. Um, so some of the work that we did was to look at just what are the additives in plastic? What we found was, um, over 150 known carcinogens in plastic. I mean, I'm talking about things that you would know, like formaldehyde. Years ago when we were adding this stuff, we didn't know we were eating. So we'd be eating so much of it in 2026 now. Right. You know, so I think we need to re-imagine how we're using this stuff and what we're putting in it. Do you think that some of the increased incidents in cancers like GI cancers may be at least in part from this idea of microplastics? I have a hypothesis that, that, that that's true. What I point to is that if you, if you sort of look at the, the graph of, of increased incidents of colorectal cancer, for example, you know, it's sort of going like this, increasing in young people at the point that the plastic waste and production is going up. So they sort of track together. Think about the fact that we ingest it every day. Every day, our immune cells recognize this stuff as a foreign thing. That's what our immune cells are designed to do. Recognize and eat foreign stuff. So every day we're getting this foreign stuff in our body. Our immune cells are doing such a good job. Thank goodness for our immune cells. They're eating the foreign stuff, but they're signaling, they're saying something is foreign here and they're causing this inflammatory signaling. But if you do it every single day, what happens is that becomes an environment in the gut for a cancer cell to start dividing and dividing and dividing. And for some individuals, the immune system is fine. That's right. And for some, it's just going to get dysregulated a little bit. That's right. So it increases the risk. It's not causative in the same way, but it increases the risk and allows that permissive environment. Yeah. I think that's at least worth testing. Yeah. Right. And is your team working on that? We are. Yeah. Yeah. So we're going to try to find the answer. We'd love to hear more about the research you do. One thing we're doing is trying to understand, like, I sort of framed out all of these different variables, right? There's the type of plastic, the size limits of uptake in cells, which polymers are bad. Then the additives is another layer. So then we're thinking about what are all the chemicals and what do they do? So we really are trying to disentangle in the lab all of those variables through really careful studies. We're so well set up to do it just because of the Duke community. I think the other thing I want to highlight for people is we formed a plastic pollution working group. And we're thinking about this from all facets, right? What can we do? And that spans policy. And we're working with governmental agencies to do that, to work with the other community groups, you know, and try to get them to understand this problem and do things in their own communities to help. So it's so rewarding. It's so fun. How do we start to sort of say, OK, here's some things you could do? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's a hard question. It's a great question. It's not like if you ingest plastic, you're certain to have dementia and you're certain to have heart disease and you're certain to have cancer, but it may make you a greater risk. And so I think that's a first step is to just frame the problem. Think of it as going out in the sun and getting too many sunburns. Like you don't want to do it. Sometimes it may happen, but over many, many years, it becomes a problem. So what can you do? Well, so we do little things. I mean, in our house, like we have glass Tupperware. We try to use glass cutting boards. We replace things with silicone. We certainly don't buy bottled water. So per liter. So it's about two of those bottles. There's about 250,000 little tiny particles in that water. We know certain things are like maybe a little safer or not. For example, polystyrene, which is just styrofoam, has styrene monomer, which is a carcinogen. You know, don't if you see like tons and tons of styrofoam shop elsewhere. We have this ability to vote with our dollars, right, to to use our our money wisely. Well, keep on going. We are so grateful for all the work that you're doing and for how much you're teaching us. Yeah. And thanks. Thanks for your leadership in this. I really sincerely appreciate it. Thank you.