 pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais pais We understand that most of the care, the provision of care, is actually not happening inside of hospital and clinic walls. The majority of what's going on is actually happening in that individual's home. And we need to recognize as health partners that that caregiver is just as important, if not more important, than our doctors, our nurses, and our physicians. So we want family caregivers to really feel like we've wrapped our arms around them with the multitude of resources that are here, with the educational sessions that we're providing. And we want to really help them understand that they should be here to care for themselves as well. Because oftentimes a caregiver feels like they're incredibly isolated and they're doing this alone. And what we see when people come here is they're kind of walking in down and tired. But then when they leave, they're oftentimes feeling very uplifted. So that's really powerful and incredible. And that's a reason why I think this event also is very successful. Because people feel like these are my people, this is where I belong, and this organization understands what I need. So, yeah, this is a wonderful, wonderful conference. And as long as you have it, I probably will be here every year. Yeah, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it, you have it