 bendeendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, bendex, who are beginning their pathways in healthcare. Happy birthday! First day of school, how are you feeling? Little bit excited, little bit nervous, little bit everything. I'm very excited just for the whole medical aspect of it, but especially the nursing career part of it. You're going to come to the school, you're going to graduate, you're going to go rule the world, right? This partnership between Durham Public Schools, Durham Tech, and Duke Health is extraordinary. You're going to be successful, all of you, you're going to be successful. With the very gracious gift of the Bloomberg Philanthropies, we're able to prepare the next generation of clinicians who come from Durham, know Durham, and are going to care for Durham. Any assignments that we're going to have for the day, you'll find on the left-hand side of the board. They are going to be learning things that are going to impact healthcare, patients, research. We've developed several apprenticeships that these students will have the opportunity to enter into, internships, all kinds of opportunities to expose them along the way, but also to help them be successful when they come into the hospital for their clinical rotations and for the work ahead. This collaboration exemplifies Duke's ongoing commitment to purposeful partnerships, to expanding educational and economic opportunities. For the City of Durham and the county, I hope that this serves as a model of what's possible when community partners come together with this unwavering belief that we're going to do something amazing for scholars for the future workforce. Every single day that you come to school, we're going to push you. We're going to support you. You are starting a legacy, not only for yourself, but for your family. I think there's just something really good about caring for other people and helping other people who are struggling with illness. I would say that's a pretty good calling as well. Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom Tom