 carosososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososos and it kind of sticks with them, these experiences and these memories. Medics days are when we get introduced to the pathways, whether that's clinical research, nursing assistant, nursing or cervical tech. Which side do you think is up? This side is up. We like listen to our heartbeats and we found ways to find our heartbeats. We also learn CPR. That hands-on experience is game-changing for this school and will help promote health careers for so many Durham students that come through. Today we were celebrating the official ribbon-cutting ceremony of the school and it's open-eyed. The Durham Early College of Health Sciences represents promise and prosperity. Our scholars have a unique opportunity to earn a high school diploma, associate degree and credentials. This is not just about a shadowing opportunity or a show and tell in the classroom. This is about relationships between students, our faculty and the health system in order for our students to be able to see that not only is this something they could be, but it's somewhere they belong and it's somewhere where they will make an impact. We're honored to invest in the community's future by training tomorrow's workforce. Durham is the home for Duke Health. Part of serving the community is creating that career pathway. The opportunity for people to make Durham the home for their career. Duke the home to pursue a healthcare career. At Bloomberg Plan 3 we really believe in options and opportunities for students and we are thrilled to see where this goes. This is a great school. It's going to prepare you for what you're looking for. Everybody should have equal opportunities to live out just like other people do. So helping people is extremely important to me. So helping people is extremely important to me. Thank you.