 During the course of my first kidney transplant, I was still playing shows, in front of tens of thousands of people. I would play songs in sets of three. And after the third song, the lights would go down, and I would go behind my stack of amps, and I would throw up in a bucket. And then I'd go back out to the front of the stage like nothing happened, and the show would go on. My doctors really thought I was going to die on stage. I was really, really sick. After spending two years on dialysis, I received my first kidney transplant. And I had ten really good years with that kidney. But in 2024, when I found out I was sick again, through Duke and Dr. Matt Ellis, I was placed on the transplant list again. To get listed, you need to get to a transplant center. And so what we often see is a patient will be referred to us, but also to other centers concurrently. And we fully support that and think that is a great idea for patients to be able to have access to multiple different transplant centers. There are some centers that have programs that allow people access to some kidneys that other centers don't. And then every center has unique strengths and weaknesses. So as an example at Duke, because our colleagues in cardiology and what they do is so robust, we can handle a lot of heart disease and heart problems that other centers can. So we feel very comfortable with many things that other centers won't. One of the best things about working with Duke and the kidney transplant team was having Dr. Matt Ellis spearhead the efforts on my behalf. He went to some other centers and they were worried about his body mass index. But that's where a more nuanced discussion happened with the surgical team who had seen him to say, where is that weight distributed? And is it going to get in the way of safely transplanting? They said, we can handle it, bring it. And they did. And I had a successful kidney transplant. People's quality of life improves with a transplant. And so everything we do revolves around making that process for the patients easy. So the referral process, getting the patients into clinic very quickly, getting their evaluation all done in a single day. We've done a lot of transplants. We were the first center in the state to do transplant. And we now have a record of doing a high volume of transplant every year, which means that we've gotten good at a lot of different, sometimes straightforward, but sometimes complex issues. Three months later, I work out every day. I play music. I hang out with my wife. I hang out with my dog. I'm living the best life I can live.