 when they told me that I needed a lung transplant, I thought, that's it, I'm gonna die. We had the evaluations done in Miami, and they rejected me. My son, he just gotta go to Duke. Lung transplants are probably the most challenging organ of all the commonly transplanted organs to make work successfully. We're not afraid to tackle any challenging problem or patient. What makes Duke special, I think, is the team culture. There's a heritage that's been built on the shoulders of the people ahead of us that were leaders in the field, on the medical side, surgical side, nursing side, and all of those components coming together with trying to achieve the same goal of helping patients, getting them the best outcome they can. That's my guy, he makes me feel like, he makes me feel like a family member. I go to him and I trust what he's saying. A lot of the things that our program focuses on for patients to be able to improve before transplant are things like their physical strength and pulmonary rehab, and then also making sure that everyone has adequate support. I had many complications. The doctors and the nurses, everybody was, you know, on top of things. You're used to doctors that you can hardly get a word in, but they spend as much time with me as possible, and the nursing staff was really sweet, and they come and... Hey, Miss Mayra, why, darling, how sweet hearted it was. It was, you know, you felt like, you know, it was family. Every day you have your team coming to visit you in the morning during the daily rounds, checking on you, letting you know, like, hey, this is our plan, this is where you are, this is what we want to see you do, and where you need to get to to get home. So we've been able to do research and then integrate that research into our clinical practice. We really set the standard for how lung transplant should be done, what's...what are best practices around not only the country, but the world. The Duke Lung Transplant Program is the only lung transplant program in the United States with an active living lung donation program. Because of the scarcity of a conventional donor, we sometimes utilize part of the lung, not whole lung, from the relatives to match the size of the chest cavity. What we hope to have soon in clinical trials is the ability to actually modify organs. So taking a lung and genetically modifying it outside of the donor before we use it for transplant can then allow us to personalize that organ for each individual, and they can make it a lung that's more resistant to infection, or a lung that's less likely to suffer from rejection and then provide us longer and better outcomes for our recipients. There's moments when you're sick and you're like, is it ever going to get better? It might always be dealing with this. If you do the work, you take care of yourself, you trust your team, like, you can beat the odds, and that's just kind of like my message to myself. I've been able to take walks in the park, pick up the grandkids from school again, you know, into a family, get-togethers. I'll be forever grateful. It's like the chance at life.