

=== FILE: 10th Annual Loud and Proud Parkinson's Sing-Along  ｜ Duke Health [DNCQ-XXSLks].txt ===

 yükxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx for their speech and their voice. Singing tends to bring out a lot more facial expression in people. It does tend to bring out more vocal range, like stretchiness to your vocal cords, so you do get more intonation, more melody in your speech. And actually, folks with Parkinson's disease sometimes will get a more monotone voice and even a flatter facial expression. So when we do things like singing, it really just brings out the very best of that, the intonation contours and facial expression. Well, that's me. I'm a Parkinson's patient and it helps me, again, lot of it with the socializing and just using all of your body. You know, just like Meredith said, using your voice, using your physical body and being connected with the community. It's good. And Christmas music is always inspirational. We're not only working on your voice, but we're getting you out of the house and you're coming to meet people. You're making social connections and it's good for your mental health, it's good for your physical health. The more you're willing to engage in things, the more you're willing to go to social things. And I think one person said it so nicely today too, that just to be around other people with Parkinson's that are kind of going through the same thing, but to do this in a way that's fun and creative and is really important. I'm going to wrap up the class for Meredith. Thank you for that one. Thank you for that one. Thank you. Thank you.

=== FILE: 6 Expert Tips to Keep Your New Year's Resolutions [ddqVDkwrX-U].txt ===

 Most people have already given up on their New Year's resolutions by now, but you don't have to. I'm Dr. John Mitchell, and here are six tips to keep going. Think big, but start small. It's okay to think big about starting new habits, but start off with small steps. Want to run a 5K? Start with a short distance, then build up over time. Don't wait for motivation. Action creates momentum. One thing you can do is touch the task. If your goal is to read a long book, touch the task by opening it to page one and reading the first paragraph. Plan for setbacks. You may not make it to the gym today, but that doesn't mean your workout plan is doomed. Remind yourself that progress is full of ups and downs, and start planning for tomorrow. Connect your behavior to your values. A resolution isn't just changing the behavior. It's important to you because it touches on a value, like living a healthy life, having better relationships, or growing as a person. Make it enjoyable. Sometimes we neglect this when setting resolutions. Celebrate small wins. Paraport the friend to encourage each other. There are a lot of ways to find joy in the journey. Finally, keep resetting your intentions. All the advice in the world won't get you to establish a new behavioral routine. Don't quit pivot. Every new day is a chance to reset your intention to a resolution. Start again and keep moving forward. Here's to a happy, healthy new year with resolutions that stick.

=== FILE: Can Vaccines Help Us Treat Cancer？ ｜ Conversations in Cancer with Duke Cancer Institute [CSaP-OHol08].txt ===

 mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel mel Today, we are diving into the world of cancer vaccines, what they are, do they, and how do they prevent and treat cancer, and what's on the horizon. I am absolutely thrilled to be joined today by my colleague and friend, Dr. Zachary Hartman, who is in the Department of Surgery. So, Zach, thanks so much for joining me. It's great to be here. Thanks for having me. I'd like to start with just, you know, when most of us think of vaccines, we think of the flu shot or pneumonia vaccine. Can you tell us a little bit about what a cancer vaccine is and how that might be different? Sure. So, for a lot of infectious disease, we use vaccines as a way to really train your immune system to go after that particular virus or bacteria or pathogen. And really what we're doing in cancer vaccines is we're really trying to train your body to go after the cancer cells. This is, like, incredible, right? I think, you know, as a treating oncologist, I always say the most important things that I do is to keep my patients with me for as long as possible, and as well as possible. But chemotherapies, they're no free lunch. No, there's a cost. You know, sometimes life-threatening side effects. Right. And so the idea that we can now leverage our immune system is just so remarkable and exciting. Can you talk to us a little bit about how these vaccines may help us treat cancer? Yeah, sure. I mean, your immune system is constantly surveilling your body for anything kind of abnormal. So if you have emerging kind of early-stage cancers, a lot of times it will eliminate it, and you'll never even know you had anything. I want to highlight that because I tell my patients that all the time. We all have cancer cells in our body. Yeah, there's tons of mutations that you carry. It happens. Almost cancer, but our immune systems are like, okay, I'm going to take care of it. We're going to wipe it out. It evolves in a certain way and avoids the immune system and can suppress actively the immune system. That's usually when it's very well situated to prevent immune responses. So when we're giving a vaccine, we're trying to promote that immune response. And I like to kind of use the analogy, it's like a car. We're kind of pushing on the accelerator, and we're directing it, you know, to where we want to go. The goal and the promise of immune-based therapies is if you can train your body's immune system to go after the cancer, you could potentially eradicate it. We have a study coming out pretty soon where we followed patients that received a vaccine back around 2000. They all had advanced metastatic breast cancer, and we followed up almost 20 years later, and they were all doing really well. We tested to see if they still had immune responses against the target that we were vaccinating against, and they did. So then we're interested in, like, taking that forward more into the clinic, trying to use those kinds of strategies, seeing what we can learn and use to, you know, have more effective anti-tumor therapies. So, you know, can we make vaccines better? Can we deliver them earlier? What targets do we need to go after? And how can we mesh these types of approaches with standard-of-care therapies? Let's talk about the side effects of the treatment and then exactly what it is. I mean, is it just a shot in the arm and any side effects that you worry about? I think the vast majority of vaccine-based studies are done, yeah, by intramuscular administration. So it's no different than going and get your flu shot or your, you know, COVID vaccine. And, you know, the side effects have been, for vaccines, very mild. It might be a really easy way of stimulating immunity without paying that much of a penalty and really directing it more specifically against cancer. Do we have vaccines that actually prevent cancer from developing in the first place? There are a few that are clinically approved and on the market that prevent cancer effectively. So like HPV, the human papilloma virus, we have a vaccine Gardasil, which prevents that virus from really taking root. So because that virus can really never take off, it can never really cause cancers. There's a lot of, you know, early interest in trying to prevent the development of cancer. There are a couple of different clinical trials occurring right now. There are some patients with Lynch syndrome, and they have these mutations that really give rise to lots of colorectal and other kinds of cancers. And one approach is to do a lot of sequencing of everybody's, you know, cancer who has Lynch syndrome. We've identified, you know, mutations that commonly occur. Can we vaccinate those patients and develop immune responses to allow the immune system to understand and target those kinds of cells as they arise? So then those patients would never get cancer. And I think we're working on BRCA and other kinds of signatures and trying to see if can we can we put it in a prevention setting? And also, could we use it as a treatment modality for patients that already have cancer? So to recap, if you may have an inherited gene from mom and dad, there are different types of that. One is the BRCA mutation, as you said. The other is called Lynch, which is another sort of type of inherited gene that could pass. There's actually opportunities to develop vaccines so that even though they're at high risk to develop cancer, by doing that, they can actually prevent it from developing the many cancers they're at risk for. That's right. And then even if cancers develop, another approach that we've been interested in is, you know, a lot of times we'll put them on certain therapies. And if they're on a certain therapy and they become resistant to that therapy, there are a lot of common mutations that occur. Could we vaccinate patients against those mutations before they arise? So where do you see the most promise in these vaccines in the world of diseases, like in these different types of cancers that we provide? You talked about breast cancer as one, as a promising disease. Any other areas that you think that we've seen already that there could be, you know, more promise or more efficacy that we're starting to see? Oh, yeah. I mean, there's lots of cancers that have kind of dysregulation and have, you know, mutations in them or proteins that would kind of lend themselves to be a pretty good target. There are some cancers that have been more sensitive to the immune system. So like melanoma tends to have a lot of things that can kind of activate immunity. I think there's a lot of other cancers like prostate and breast that there might already be anti-androgen therapies or anti-estrogen therapies. Can we make those work better? And I think there's a lot of cancers with, you know, fairly poor prognosis like pancreatic, where we haven't really been able to make end rows. But we're working on that now and really trying to understand like, OK, well, how are how are these cancers able to resist the immune system? And what can we do to improve that? Yeah. And I think that the pancreas studies that we have now in the vaccine space are fascinating, right? Like, as you said before, that the immune system can recognize it, but it probably can recognize it with a certain what we call tumor burden, right? Right. Where you can't have a lot of cells. Right. Because then it just overwhelms the system. So for many of our patients with advanced or stage four disease, it may be a little bit too high burden. Is that big? Yeah. I think it's kind of I always think of it in evolutionary terms. It's like if you had a if you had a population of cockroach and you want to eliminate them, like if it's small, it'd be easier. They populate entire island and there's all this diversity. Then that's going to be a little hard. But I would say with pancreatic cancer, there are some trials that are going on right now where they're sequencing patients, tumors, identifying the mutations, making a custom vaccine, giving to those patients. And prostate cancer has got a very poor outcome. But those patients in these early clinical trials have done pretty well. I think that the idea, like you said, of this trial where we're actually personalizing that vaccine based on the protein that we could identify in their tumor is incredibly helpful. I think all these advancements in medicine in terms of better and easier sequencing and be able to identify things from the blood, like tumor circulating cells and mutations within those. And I think in cancer, that's kind of where I see it going is we're going to get better and better at typing them. And we'll have, you know, tools in the toolkit to kind of like, okay, oh, you've got this kind of cancer. We can give you this, this, and this. And that combination is probably going to be our most effective strategy of eliminating the cancer. And the earlier is probably better. I totally agree. So for the last 20 years, I've been caring for patients with cancer. And never have I felt so excited about the technology and the innovation and some of the beautiful science that you're explaining, right? But a lot of it is for our patients of tomorrow. What about our patients now that have these diseases that are devastating? Where is their access for those cancer vaccines today? I think for the most part, most cancer vaccines right now are still really in the clinical trial phase. I've had a lot of patients contact me about potential clinical trials. We have some that are kind of occurring at Duke, and I think we're interested in starting up some new ones. But I think a good resource is really just to kind of go to clinicaltrials.gov and, you know, put in your cancer and see if there is a vaccine trial going on, and would you be eligible to enroll in that? And I think it's an important point that, you know, we need patient involvement in those things. I've been on the recruiting side, and sometimes it's difficult to find the right patients. And the more patients that we can enroll, the faster we can get those sorts of answers, the faster we can, you know, potentially get those therapies to more patients. So I think right now it's still kind of more in the experimental phase, in the early clinical trial phase, mid-clinical trial phase. But my hope is that within the next five or 10 years, we'll have more approvals. Most of the studies right now are still in the experimental, but they're there, and they're happening. And so we're hoping to open more in the future here at Duke and beyond. So I love the idea of going to clinicaltrials.gov, putting in vaccine plus the disease that you need. Whatever you have, yeah. And to see what, if anything, could be offered. We have had, I would say, periods in science over the last decades where we were like, we're going to cure cancer. Targeted therapies, right? You know, we have not cured the thousands of cancers that we unfortunately still have today. Do you see vaccine therapy as a way to really disrupt the way we deliver treatment and or prevent cancers from developing? Yeah. I think given enough time, it will certainly depend on the type of cancer it is. I don't think there is ever going to be a universal kind of vaccine that would prevent all sorts of cancers. But I think what will happen is we'll develop vaccines that will be used in combination with lots of other therapies normally in the clinic. And then there may be a lot of classes of cancer that we would be able to prevent or at least sort of mitigate the number that arise. And I think why I'm very bullish on vaccines is they are very safe. And if we can exploit their efficacy. I mean, we've seen it in, you know, infectious disease. We've eliminated kids aren't in our lungs anymore, which is great. And I think that that's a really testament to science and what we've done. And then can we do that same sort of thing on the cancer side of things? And if we're able to do that, then could we prevent a lot of people from developing any kind of cancer? Can we make treatments more effective? Could we make side effects less? Could we make the treatments that we have work long? Like all those kinds of things. I think vaccines are kind of a good bet to do that kind of thing. I could not agree more. I think it's a great bet. We are so thrilled that you're doing this important work. I think we're all on the same team. And I'm really appreciative of what you do. This is the type of science and collaboration that helps really move the ball down the field, right? That's what we want. In a very exciting way. Yes, certainly. Thank you so much for joining us. Well, thank you for having me.

=== FILE: Experience Matters： Treating Moyamoya Disease ｜ Duke Health [RLk4-bEEwJY].txt ===

 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx It's a rare condition. Therefore, the surgery is not common. I do, we are a high volume center and the experience really helps because the surgery is very delicate. If one part is not right, then the whole thing doesn't work. We went over all my scans and said, you know, you are a great candidate for the surgery. But he also said, you'll be okay. You want to go have a summer vacation, you will be fine. Knowing that he had confidence that I would be okay made me want to use him as my surgeon. Other doctors almost made me feel like I was just going to be a number. There was no pressure from him. With Moe Moe, the critical branches to the brain are shutting down and then there's not enough blood getting to the brain so stroke symptoms occur. I think what's scary about the disease is the procedure that follows in order to try and get you on a healthy path to live your life fully. Typically what we do we harvest a normal blood vessel and plug it onto a vessel of the brain. You can see how the vessels start to look happier. The brain starts to look more pinkish and blood flow is coming in. I feel back to how I was honestly not even pre-surgery but before I started experiencing all of the symptoms. Here she has my cell phone number and she reaches out to the office for anything that she needs to. The surgery is already a thing of the past for her.

=== FILE: Lung Transplants at Duke： The Largest Program in the United States [cWfOXRAvSRM].txt ===

 when they told me that I needed a lung transplant, I thought, that's it, I'm gonna die. We had the evaluations done in Miami, and they rejected me. My son, he just gotta go to Duke. Lung transplants are probably the most challenging organ of all the commonly transplanted organs to make work successfully. We're not afraid to tackle any challenging problem or patient. What makes Duke special, I think, is the team culture. There's a heritage that's been built on the shoulders of the people ahead of us that were leaders in the field, on the medical side, surgical side, nursing side, and all of those components coming together with trying to achieve the same goal of helping patients, getting them the best outcome they can. That's my guy, he makes me feel like, he makes me feel like a family member. I go to him and I trust what he's saying. A lot of the things that our program focuses on for patients to be able to improve before transplant are things like their physical strength and pulmonary rehab, and then also making sure that everyone has adequate support. I had many complications. The doctors and the nurses, everybody was, you know, on top of things. You're used to doctors that you can hardly get a word in, but they spend as much time with me as possible, and the nursing staff was really sweet, and they come and... Hey, Miss Mayra, why, darling, how sweet hearted it was. It was, you know, you felt like, you know, it was family. Every day you have your team coming to visit you in the morning during the daily rounds, checking on you, letting you know, like, hey, this is our plan, this is where you are, this is what we want to see you do, and where you need to get to to get home. So we've been able to do research and then integrate that research into our clinical practice. We really set the standard for how lung transplant should be done, what's...what are best practices around not only the country, but the world. The Duke Lung Transplant Program is the only lung transplant program in the United States with an active living lung donation program. Because of the scarcity of a conventional donor, we sometimes utilize part of the lung, not whole lung, from the relatives to match the size of the chest cavity. What we hope to have soon in clinical trials is the ability to actually modify organs. So taking a lung and genetically modifying it outside of the donor before we use it for transplant can then allow us to personalize that organ for each individual, and they can make it a lung that's more resistant to infection, or a lung that's less likely to suffer from rejection and then provide us longer and better outcomes for our recipients. There's moments when you're sick and you're like, is it ever going to get better? It might always be dealing with this. If you do the work, you take care of yourself, you trust your team, like, you can beat the odds, and that's just kind of like my message to myself. I've been able to take walks in the park, pick up the grandkids from school again, you know, into a family, get-togethers. I'll be forever grateful. It's like the chance at life.

=== FILE: Quality Care Close to Home at Duke Cancer Center Cary ｜ Duke Health [GsiEJHxpzqc].txt ===

 I have a Duke trained physician, a Duke trained staff with all the Duke support behind them, and the place is less than six miles from my house. It was an easy decision to go ahead and move my ongoing care to this practice. Cancer care has gotten to be quite complicated, and having people who are comfortable and experienced treating your specific type of cancer can really make a big difference. When I came here, I found the team to be knowledgeable, but maybe more importantly than all that, they were so easy to talk to and friendly. I do understand this is a very vulnerable time for you. I would definitely try my best to keep you calm, you know, tell a little joke, make you laugh a little bit, but also just to let you know, like, you're in a safe place. When we see patients, we walk them ourselves to the infusion room. We're seeing the same nurses there every day. We all know each other by name. I think that having that, you know, personal touch to cancer care can really make a difference. Duke is the number one cancer hospital in the state. That just reinforces my decision.

=== FILE: What Do My Cholesterol Results Even Mean？ ｜ Duke Health [cFKt312qj9E].txt ===

 When your cholesterol results come back, they can be confusing. I'm not gonna lie. There's a lot of different numbers. The thing that I look at as a preventive cardiologist the most is the LDL cholesterol. It matters that you know if it's elevated or not so you can make preventable efforts to live a heart healthier life. For people who have not had a heart attack or stroke, you want to aim for that number to be less than 100. For those who've had a prior heart attack or stroke or have evidence of cholesterol buildup already in their blood vessels, you want that number to be at least under 70. The lower you go, the better it is. Cholesterol can stick to the blood vessel walls and lead to obstruction of blood flow that can eventually lead to a heart attack or stroke. About 25% of the US population is walking around with untreated elevated cholesterol. There are about 4 million deaths globally due to cholesterol alone. But the thing is, it's so easy to treat if your cholesterol comes back elevated. One of the foundations of treatment is good lifestyle modifications. What that means is a life that is full of a good diet and a good exercise regimen. If you go through good lifestyle modifications and you're doing everything that you can, and your cholesterol is still elevated, that suggests that there may be a genetic component to your cholesterol. You may also be producing more cholesterol than your body actually needs. And in that case, it might be important to talk to your provider about being on cholesterol-lowering medicine. Here at Duke, we have a comprehensive center that manages cardiometabolic risk conditions. But those conditions include really high cholesterol. And so we at the Duke Cardiometabolic Clinic are happy to see patients that have really difficult to treat cholesterol disorders. Or patients who have genetic cholesterol conditions that need more advanced treatments. And the idea here is that we want to be proactive and not reactive. We want to invest in the long game. We want to prevent heart attacks and strokes. And it's totally doable.

=== FILE: What is CAR T-cell therapy？ ｜ Duke Health [I0ayuxlS--w].en.txt ===

over the past five years I actually over the past five years I actually over the past five years I actually joined Duke to do or to start the carti joined Duke to do or to start the carti joined Duke to do or to start the carti program at Duke and now we've been five program at Duke and now we've been five program at Duke and now we've been five years and it's very successful process years and it's very successful process years and it's very successful process and we're very proud of it and we're very proud of it and we're very proud of it the reason why patients would require the reason why patients would require the reason why patients would require some sort of this treatment is basically some sort of this treatment is basically some sort of this treatment is basically chemotherapy does not work anymore other chemotherapy does not work anymore other chemotherapy does not work anymore other Therapeutics are not effective anymore Therapeutics are not effective anymore Therapeutics are not effective anymore we do not control the disease for a long we do not control the disease for a long we do not control the disease for a long period of time anymore karthi in general period of time anymore karthi in general period of time anymore karthi in general is a game changer it's actually the new is a game changer it's actually the new is a game changer it's actually the new landscape what it does is going to turn landscape what it does is going to turn landscape what it does is going to turn a disease that we've never mentioned the a disease that we've never mentioned the a disease that we've never mentioned the word see and a cure that now we're sort word see and a cure that now we're sort word see and a cure that now we're sort of entertaining that we take the patient's T cells which is we take the patient's T cells which is we take the patient's T cells which is the immune cells and send it to the the immune cells and send it to the the immune cells and send it to the manufacturer and everyone will do what manufacturer and everyone will do what manufacturer and everyone will do what we call manufacturing of these T cells we call manufacturing of these T cells we call manufacturing of these T cells over many many steps including inserting over many many steps including inserting over many many steps including inserting a construct inside the cell that will a construct inside the cell that will a construct inside the cell that will recognize the tumor which is the recognize the tumor which is the recognize the tumor which is the lymphoma or the leukemia after the steps lymphoma or the leukemia after the steps lymphoma or the leukemia after the steps arecompleted including expansion of arecompleted including expansion of arecompleted including expansion of these cortic cells and we make sure from these cortic cells and we make sure from these cortic cells and we make sure from thEQuality control that these cells are thEQuality control that these cells are thEQuality control that these cells are viable we actually send the units from viable we actually send the units from viable we actually send the units from that manufacturer to our Hospital once that manufacturer to our Hospital once that manufacturer to our Hospital once the cells in the body in the bloodstream the cells in the body in the bloodstream the cells in the body in the bloodstream they're going to find these tumor cells they're going to find these tumor cells they're going to find these tumor cells within the tissue or in the blood and within the tissue or in the blood and within the tissue or in the blood and they're going to deal with it and they're going to deal with it and they're going to deal with it and eliminate it eliminate it eliminate it I can tell you many of my colleagues and I can tell you many of my colleagues and I can tell you many of my colleagues and myself see these patients as family so myself see these patients as family so myself see these patients as family so it gets that close and when success it gets that close and when success it gets that close and when success happens that's it IMean what else he happens that's it IMean what else he happens that's it IMean what else he can wish for

=== FILE: Why One Woman Donated a Kidney to a Near Stranger ｜ Duke Health [mYOlpDdZnAY].en.txt ===

what led me to the kidney trensplant is first of all to the kidney trensplant is first of all to the kidney trensplant is first of all i didn't even know i was sick i didn't even know i was sick i didn't even know i was sick and and and i had went to the doctor for AI had went to the doctor for AI had went to the doctor for a full checkup checkup checkup and found out that there was a problem and found out that there was a problem and found out that there was a problem with my kidney function with my kidney function with my kidney function and so i went to a specialist and then i and so i went to a specialist and then i and so i went to a specialist and then i found out that i was in found out that i was in found out that i was in stage four kidney stage four kidney failure and i had no clue failure and i had no clue failure and i had no clue i came to a point where i had to go on i came to a point where i had to go on i came to a point where i had to go on dialysis and i chose dialysis and i chose dialysis and i chose uh peritoneal dialysis and it was 12 hours every day it was 12 hours every day it was 12 hours every day hooked onto a machine and hooked onto a machine and hooked onto a machine and it was not a lifestyle it was not a lifestyle it was not a lifestyle and being in that process kind of gives and being in that process kind of gives and being in that process kind of gives you you you kind of wakes you up kind of wakes you up kind of wakes you up to your reality that you're in right now to your reality that you're in right now to your reality that you're in right now that this is not the lifestyle that i that this is not the lifestyle that i that this is not the lifestyle that i want for myself want for myself the doctors told me you're going to need the doctors told me you're going to need the doctors told me you're going to need a trensplant a trensplant a trensplant and so and so and so i sat with it for a while and did i sat with it for a while and did i sat with it for a while and did nothing nothing nothing and and and so my family and friends did an so my family and friends did an so my family and friends did an intervention intervention intervention they did an intervention and it's like they did an intervention and it's like they did an intervention and it's like okay you need help okay you need help okay you need help and we need to ask the community for and we need to ask the community for and we need to ask the community for help just let us handle this help just let us handle this help just let us handle this and you just worry about healing and you just worry about healing and you just worry about healing and so it did my and so it did my and so it did my wonderful spouse wonderful spouse wonderful spouse patrice got you know put friends patrice got you know put friends patrice got you know put friends together and they put a call out to the together and they put a call out to the together and they put a call out to the community community community that i needed a kidney trensplant that i needed a kidney trensplant that i needed a kidney trensplant and uh through that i had and uh through that i had and uh through that i had 87 people step forward to donate me a 87 people step forward to donate me a 87 people step forward to donate me a kitty a kidney kitty a kidney 87 people came forth and i was just 87 people came forth and i was just 87 people came forth and i was just completely overwhelmed completely overwhelmed completely overwhelmed completely overwhelmed and completely overwhelmed and surprised because in my mind i thought surprised because in my mind i thought surprised because in my mind i thought who would want to donate who would want to donate who would want to donate a body part to someone that they really a body part to someone that they really a body part to someone that they really didn't know didn't know didn't know and and and it made me aware that there are people it made me aware that there are people it made me aware that there are people in this world in this world that are there for help and all you have that are there for help and all you have that are there for help and all you have to do is ask to do is ask to do is ask i think you announced it in church i think you announced it in church i think you announced it in church and and and you know she said she was going to go on you know she said she was going to go on you know she said she was going to go on dialysis dialysis dialysis and that she needed a kidney and that she needed a kidney and that she needed a kidney and so that that i was and so that that i was and so that that i was i was aware i was aware but i really wasn't aware but i really wasn't aware but i really wasn't aware until until until we went to the renaissance hotel here in we went to the renaissance hotel here in we went to the renaissance hotel here in nashville for a fundraiser for cat and nashville for a fundraiser for cat and nashville for a fundraiser for cat and cat sang cat sang cat sang and there was a list of you know for and there was a list of you know for and there was a list of you know for people who were interested in donating people who were interested in donating people who were interested in donating kidneys kidneys kidneys and the more i listened to kat and i and the more i listened to kat and i and the more i listened to kat and i learned about her story i learned about learned about her story i learned about learned about her story i learned about her accomplishments throughout her life her accomplishments throughout her life her accomplishments throughout her life i learned about what a beautiful person i learned about what a beautiful person i learned about what a beautiful person she is and i just thought to myself you she is and i just thought to myself you she is and i just thought to myself you know i can sign up i know i'm in know i can sign up i know i'm in know i can sign up i know i'm in generally good health i can sign up generally good health i can sign up generally good health i can sign up i didn't know if i was going to give her i didn't know if i was going to give her i didn't know if i was going to give her a kidney but i knew i could take the a kidney but i knew i could take the a kidney but i knew i could take the first step because i could always say no first step because i could always say no first step because i could always say no or somebody else could say no if i or somebody else could say no if i or somebody else could say no if i wasn't eligible wasn't eligible wasn't eligible so i just signed up and so i just signed up and so i just signed up and went home and continued with my life went home and continued with my life went home and continued with my life expecting that somebody was going to expecting that somebody was going to expecting that somebody was going to come forward and she was going to get come forward and she was going to get come forward and she was going to get that trensplant long before she reached that trensplant long before she reached that trensplant long before she reached they reached my name at the end of the they reached my name at the end of the they reached my name at the end of the list list list and so i i waited and waited but i also and so i i waited and waited but i also and so i i waited and waited but i also knew the cat was going on dialysis knew the cat was going on dialysis knew the cat was going on dialysis and and and seeinGHer in church on a regular basis seeinGHer in church on a regular basis seeinGHer in church on a regular basis it became apparent to me that she was it became apparent to me that she was it became apparent to me that she was becoming more tired more stressed and becoming more tired more stressed and becoming more tired more stressed and that this was a very difficult process that this was a very difficult process that this was a very difficult process for her for her for her and so i and so i kind of jumped in proactively and kind of jumped in proactively and kind of jumped in proactively and started to do some research about what i started to do some research about what i started to do some research about what IMight need to do to be a organ donor might need to do to be a organ donor might need to do to be a organ donor right at that moment if somebody called right at that moment if somebody called right at that moment if somebody called me i needed to be ready me i needed to be ready me i needed to be ready and so i began my own journey and so i began my own journey and so i began my own journey which which involved essentially losing which which involved essentially losing which which involved essentially losing 24 25 pounds 24 25 pounds to make sure i would be eligible to make sure i would be eligible to make sure i would be eligible so you had not even been contacted and so you had not even been contacted and so you had not even been contacted and were like i'm gonna i'm gonna be ready were like i'm gonna i'm gonna be ready were like i'm gonna i'm gonna be ready to donate this kidney like to donate this kidney like to donate this kidney like i feel like most people were probably i feel like most people were probably i feel like most people were probably not doing that like not doing that like not doing that like what what what did you just do research on your own did you just do research on your own did you just do research on your own like like like what i need to do what i need to do what i need to do to be an ideal kidney donor yes to be an ideal kidney donor yes to be an ideal kidney donor yes yes yes yes i'm a retired attorney and so research i'm a retired attorney and so research i'm a retired attorney and so research is very natural for me and i didn't is very natural for me and i didn't is very natural for me and i didn't really know if i would qualify really know if i would qualify really know if i would qualify being retired you also have a little being retired you also have a little being retired you also have a little free Time so free Time so you know i got on the internet i started you know i got on the internet i started you know i got on the internet i started looking looking looking and and and learned an awful lot learned an awful lot learned an awful lot so i was in my uh so i was in my uh so i was in my uh later 60s and i was aware that there was later 60s and i was aware that there was later 60s and i was aware that there was a time when i wouldn't qualify simply a time when i wouldn't qualify simply a time when i wouldn't qualify simply because of my age so because of my age so because of my age so in that sense i was in a hurry to lose in that sense i was in a hurry to lose in that sense i was in a hurry to lose the weight i knew i would need to lose the weight i knew i would need to lose the weight i knew i would need to lose to qualify to qualify to qualify and when i when i read and when i when i read and when i when i read that that that there are three thousand people in north there are three thousand people in north there are three thousand people in north carolina right now waiting on a kidney carolina right now waiting on a kidney carolina right now waiting on a kidney trensplant trensplant trensplant that really moved me that really moved me that really moved me this lady is so special to so many this lady is so special to so many this lady is so special to so many people she has given so much of herself people she has given so much of herself people she has given so much of herself over decades to charitable causes to over decades to charitable causes to over decades to charitable causes to individuals we don't even know and she individuals we don't even know and she individuals we don't even know and she deserved every chance that i and anybody deserved every chance that i and anybody deserved every chance that i and anybody else could give her that's really beautiful meeting pat in church meeting pat in church meeting pat in church meeting pat in church when she said meeting pat in church when she said meeting pat in church when she said i'm going to be the one that gives you i'm going to be the one that gives you i'm going to be the one that gives you this kidney this kidney this kidney i was i was with patrice at the time and i was i was with patrice at the time and i was i was with patrice at the time and uh uh uh back in my mind i was going who is this back in my mind i was going who is this back in my mind i was going who is this crazy lady crazy lady crazy lady talking about giving me a kidney and i talking about giving me a kidney and i talking about giving me a kidney and i was like but then i was like you know was like but then i was like you know was like but then i was like you know what what what i opened my mind up to the possibilities i opened my mind up to the possibilities i opened my mind up to the possibilities that this may happen that this may happen that this may happen i was getting nervous because my i was getting nervous because my i was getting nervous because my deadline my birthday was coming up soon deadline my birthday was coming up soon deadline my birthday was coming up soon and IMight be disqualified so i thought and IMight be disqualified so i thought and IMight be disqualified so i thought well i needed to take the matter in hand well i needed to take the matter in hand well i needed to take the matter in hand so i contacted duke in june of 2018 so i contacted duke in june of 2018 so i contacted duke in june of 2018 and filled out their questionnaire and filled out their questionnaire and filled out their questionnaire online online online and a week or two later i got a call and a week or two later i got a call and a week or two later i got a call from the trensplant coordinator lauren from the trensplant coordinator lauren from the trensplant coordinator lauren philman philman philman at duke and she interviewed me over the at duke and she interviewed me over the at duke and she interviewed me over the phone phone phone and then we made arrangements for me to and then we made arrangements for me to and then we made arrangements for me to do some blood testing i was outside do some blood testing i was outside do some blood testing i was outside clening some lawn chairs and just doing clening some lawn chairs and just doing clening some lawn chairs and just doing my thing and the phone rang my thing and the phone rang my thing and the phone rang and it was lauren and it was lauren and it was lauren and she took a few minutes to do a and she took a few minutes to do a and she took a few minutes to do a little bit of introductory discussion little bit of introductory discussion little bit of introductory discussion about you know what we did and all of about you know what we did and all of about you know what we did and all of this this this and then she said we've determined that and then she said we've determined that and then she said we've determined that you're a match in that moment i was truly stunned in that moment i was truly stunned in that moment i was truly stunned and i sat down and i said lauren tell me and i sat down and i said lauren tell me and i sat down and i said lauren tell me again what you just said and she did and again what you just said and she did and again what you just said and she did and i was so excited i was so excited i was so excited and then i called kat and kat is at home at that point and kat is at home at that point and kat is at home at that point and i said cat and i said cat and i said cat i said i just heard from duke i'm AI said i just heard from duke i'm AI said i just heard from duke i'm a match and and and i'm going to raleigh i'm going to raleigh i'm going to raleigh for raleigh durham for testing for raleigh durham for testing for raleigh durham for testing i was uh i was on the porch i was uh i was on the porch i was uh i was on the porch and and and it was one of those days where i felt it was one of those days where i felt it was one of those days where i felt super weak super weak super weak couldn't do anything sick to my stomach couldn't do anything sick to my stomach couldn't do anything sick to my stomach and i'm sitting there on the porch and i and i'm sitting there on the porch and i and i'm sitting there on the porch and i was like was like was like i just need i need a kidney i need a kidney i don't i need a kidney i need a kidney i don't i need a kidney i need a kidney i don't know how i'm going to get it but i asked know how i'm going to get it but i asked know how i'm going to get it but i asked god to send me a miracle god to send me a miracle god to send me a miracle i need a miracle and we're praying on i need a miracle and we're praying on i need a miracle and we're praying on the porch the porch the porch for a miracle and and and that is when the phone rang and you told that is when the phone rang and you told that is when the phone rang and you told me duke said here's a thumbs up to you here's a thumbs up to you here's a thumbs up to you come on down here and let's get tested come on down here and let's get tested come on down here and let's get tested and uh and uh and uh i was like really that fast and i was like really that fast and i was like really that fast and it was just it was the most amazing it was just it was the most amazing it was just it was the most amazing moment moment moment uh when we found out because i remember uh when we found out because i remember uh when we found out because i remember us on the phone i remember crying on the us on the phone i remember crying on the us on the phone i remember crying on the phone phone phone and uh just one biGHot mess on the and uh just one biGHot mess on the and uh just one biGHot mess on the phone and phone and phone and but it was like the doors it's like the but it was like the doors it's like the but it was like the doors it's like the doors open everything opened from that doors open everything opened from that doors open everything opened from that moment on and it was like the doubt moment on and it was like the doubt moment on and it was like the doubt the fear the fear the fear it was like everything just opened it it was like everything just opened it it was like everything just opened it just opened for us just opened for us just opened for us and so and so and so here it is this this this beautiful human being who didn't really beautiful human being who didn't really beautiful human being who didn't really know me from anywhere know me from anywhere know me from anywhere stepped up and said stepped up and said stepped up and said i want to extend your life because that's what it comes down to she because that's what it comes down to she because that's what it comes down to she extended my life i'm forever grateful and connected to i'm forever grateful and connected to i'm forever grateful and connected to pat pat pat for the rest of my life this is my for the rest of my life this is my for the rest of my life this is my sister here this is my sister and we are sister here this is my sister and we are sister here this is my sister and we are forever connected to each other no forever connected to each other no forever connected to each other no matter what in life and here we are matter what in life and here we are matter what in life and here we are years later years later years later both thriving both thriving both thriving and and and you know i hadn't worked in years and you know i hadn't worked in years and you know i hadn't worked in years and here i am you know back in the law enforcement and you know back in the law enforcement and you know back in the law enforcement and doing my thing and doing my thing and doing my thing and pat's always doinGHer thing no matter pat's always doinGHer thing no matter pat's always doinGHer thing no matter what you know and what you know and what you know and it's just it's just a wonderful feeling it's just it's just a wonderful feeling it's just it's just a wonderful feeling to look at somebody and just to look at somebody and just to look at somebody and just see them see further into them than who see them see further into them than who see them see further into them than who they are on the surface they are on the surface they are on the surface and for me as a kidney donor and for me as a kidney donor and for me as a kidney donor my life changed too my life changed too my life changed too i i i have experienced so much joy have experienced so much joy have experienced so much joy from from from this simple act i can't tell you i can't tell you i can't tell you how how how wonderful it is to know wonderful it is to know wonderful it is to know that at least at this point in my life that at least at this point in my life that at least at this point in my life for the things that i've done i've done for the things that i've done i've done for the things that i've done i've done something really special i have saved something really special i have saved something really special i have saved hopefully for a long time save someone's hopefully for a long time save someone's hopefully for a long time save someone's life i think we really have become life i think we really have become life i think we really have become almost like sisters and and it's an almost like sisters and and it's an almost like sisters and and it's an honor older sister oh oh oh anyway anyway anyway we just like sisters and you can see we just like sisters and you can see we just like sisters and you can see what IMean and it's lovely it's just a lovely and it's lovely it's just a lovely and it's lovely it's just a lovely relationship and relationship and relationship and i am so thrilled every time that kat i am so thrilled every time that kat i am so thrilled every time that kat gets up in church and sings and brings gets up in church and sings and brings gets up in church and sings and brings people to their feet with her energy people to their feet with her energy people to their feet with her energy and her commitment and her love um and her love um and her love um you know it's a wonderful thing to know you know it's a wonderful thing to know you know it's a wonderful thing to know that i had AI have a little part in that i had AI have a little part in that i had AI have a little part in that and that she's on her way you know that and that she's on her way you know that and that she's on her way you know with the with her best life with the with her best life with the with her best life with her very best life you
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.335730Z ===
