 I've been on a ton of therapies, everything was great, and my PSA was pretty high, and I said, okay, Dr. George, what's your next miracle? Pluvicto, by far, is a miracle drug. Radiotheragnostics is just, it's a fancy way of saying targeted radiation therapy, and it's based on imaging. So we use a radiation image, so we use a radiation image, a PET scan, as a tiny dose of radiation that can be targeted to certain biology. This tiny dose of radiation allows us to see those cancers. We use the same target to deliver therapy. Duke is one of the centers in the country that's really, you know, leaning in to this approach to this approach to help patients. We were one of the first adopters of this, and we remain among the leading providers of this therapy. It's the first radiation therapy targeted this way that actually improves the survival of patients, delays the progression, and does so in a very specific way to the prostate cancer, not to any other of the tissues, and in the body. It's like a horse and buggy. This little horse and buggy, when it comes up to the barn, that's the cancer cell. The door on the barn is the protein on the surface of prostate cancer cells, the PSMA. And the horse is the small molecule that targets the PSMA. And the buggy is the radiation. The door opens for the horse, and the horse can go inside. And once inside, it dumps the radiation, and that helps destroy the cell. And think of this happening in little, small parts of the tumor hundreds of times. And as we do dose after dose, we can shrink this tumor down over and over again. We've already seen that it can really benefit patients with even widespread metastatic disease. Patients, you know, feel better. It's not just that we're keeping them alive, but they're miserable. I've had patients whose pain has gone away. I've had patients who've gained weight again, gained energy. You know, patients who, you know, feel like they haven't felt in two or three years. The beauty with the Plovicto was it didn't make me sick. It was done in 45 minutes. And then over the course of the six treatments, my PSA came down to, like, nothing. Treating metastatic disease is challenging, and when we treat late in the disease especially, we really are not expecting a durable response. As we move earlier, that's our goal, is to have a more durable response and ultimately be closer to cure. Our journey is to help all the patients, and the patients who respond to Plovicto like Ned, but all the patients who maybe couldn't get Victo or didn't respond is, well, we've got other treatments. We're developing other treatments in this setting, even other radiotheranostics. We'll be watching a video a bit. We'll be watching a video a bit.