 They said it was stage one prostate cancer and had recommended surgery. When we talk about surgery, it's really a radical prostatectomy, but not all prostatectomies are created equal. Here at Duke, we want to cure you of the cancer, but we also really focus on how do we spare the nerves that live right near the prostate so that you're optimized as it relates to urine leakage and erectile function because those things really matter. She kind of calmed my fears. I guess you could say. It gave me confidence that this is probably going to be okay. We have a RETSIA sparing program, which is a fancy term, but really what it means is that we try to take the prostate out in a way that preserves a lot of the urethra and the muscular attachments that help with urine leakage after surgery. Not every patient is a perfect candidate for that approach, but we have a more standard approach where we take the prostate out and have to disrupt some of those natural structures within the pelvis that keep everything else in place where it should be, but we restore them. We place a urethral suspension stitch that really allows that patient to have really good control of their urination very quickly after surgery, something that can be six to 12 months down to a much shorter period of time. In four months, I was completely continent. I have no problems. It was, it's unbelievable. For sexual function, our goal is by about six to eight weeks post-op that all patients who want to be are sexually active. Erectile dysfunction in that initial post-operative phase is extremely common, and so most men need some medications, some oral medications, like a Viagra or a Cialis. Some patients do need injectable medication because it does take those nerves over a year to fully recover. As the months progress, patients need less and less assistance because their nerves that we so carefully spared start to recover. We have far better the national averages both at final outcome and at how quickly we get to that outcome. From going from, you know, well, I guess, you know, that life is over, to you start saying, well, maybe it's not. So we're not going to sacrifice function and leave cancer behind, but we believe here at Duke that you can almost always have both. My last six-month checkup, my PSA was undetectable, so that's as far as I know, that's as good as you can get.