 mand storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage storage roller coasters, major movement, exercise, can cause the stone to shift position in the kidney and suddenly be loose and be able to fall into the ureter. The larger they are, the more problems they can potentially cause, and the more likely they are to get stuck in the ureter and cause pain, kidney damage, or other issues. Surgery may be recommended if a kidney stone can't pass out of the body naturally. Duke Urologists have helped pioneer a lot of the technology and techniques that we use to treat large kidney stones. We do hundreds of these surgeries here every year. There are two main surgeries that we use for these here at Duke. The first is suction-assisted ureteroscopy with laser lithotripsy. During this procedure, we enter your urinary system with a scope and use a laser to break apart your kidney stone. Then we use suction to remove the debris instead of leaving it to pass through the kidney on its own. This is an outpatient procedure, meaning you go home on the same day. The second option is called percutaneous nephrolithotomy, or PCNL. During this procedure, your surgeon inserts a tube with a camera at its tip through a small incision in your back, usually smaller than a postage stamp. A special instrument delivers pulses that break up the kidney stone into smaller pieces, which are then suctioned out and removed. This procedure requires an overnight hospital stay. When you have a large kidney stone, you want to get treated as soon as possible. Here at Duke, we've added new options for patients to get seen both in person and through video visits, and we've added new providers and new surgeons so you can get care faster. So if you need kidney stone treatment or have struggled with kidney stones in the past, we would love to take care of you here at Duke.