 When your cholesterol results come back, they can be confusing. I'm not gonna lie. There's a lot of different numbers. The thing that I look at as a preventive cardiologist the most is the LDL cholesterol. It matters that you know if it's elevated or not so you can make preventable efforts to live a heart healthier life. For people who have not had a heart attack or stroke, you want to aim for that number to be less than 100. For those who've had a prior heart attack or stroke or have evidence of cholesterol buildup already in their blood vessels, you want that number to be at least under 70. The lower you go, the better it is. Cholesterol can stick to the blood vessel walls and lead to obstruction of blood flow that can eventually lead to a heart attack or stroke. About 25% of the US population is walking around with untreated elevated cholesterol. There are about 4 million deaths globally due to cholesterol alone. But the thing is, it's so easy to treat if your cholesterol comes back elevated. One of the foundations of treatment is good lifestyle modifications. What that means is a life that is full of a good diet and a good exercise regimen. If you go through good lifestyle modifications and you're doing everything that you can, and your cholesterol is still elevated, that suggests that there may be a genetic component to your cholesterol. You may also be producing more cholesterol than your body actually needs. And in that case, it might be important to talk to your provider about being on cholesterol-lowering medicine. Here at Duke, we have a comprehensive center that manages cardiometabolic risk conditions. But those conditions include really high cholesterol. And so we at the Duke Cardiometabolic Clinic are happy to see patients that have really difficult to treat cholesterol disorders. Or patients who have genetic cholesterol conditions that need more advanced treatments. And the idea here is that we want to be proactive and not reactive. We want to invest in the long game. We want to prevent heart attacks and strokes. And it's totally doable.