"Why the IQs of Vegetarian Children Are Higher" Many vegetarian parents believe their children are brighter than omnivorous kids, but you don't really know until you put it to the test. And, indeed, the IQ of vegetarian children tested about 16 points higher than average, and their mental age exceeded their chronological age by about a year. The researchers knew the veg kids were bright, but why were they so much more superior? There are obviously confounding factors, like maybe more highly educated parents are more likely to have vegetarian children, and they pass down both their brains and their diets. Even if there is a cause-and-effect relationship between vegetarianism and IQ, were the children smarter because they were vegetarians, or did they become vegetarian because they were so smart? Researchers in the UK followed 8,000 kids for decades. They measured their IQ at age 10, then came back 20 years later and asked which of them had become vegetarian during that time. And, indeed, the smarter kids had an increased likelihood of being a vegetarian as an adult. The researchers even quoted Benjamin Franklin, saying that vegetarian diets result in "Greater clearness of head and quicker comprehension." According to the largest and oldest association of nutrition professionals in the world, strictly plant-based diets are appropriate for all stages of the life cycle, including childhood, and may indeed provide health benefits. What about plant-based diets and growth in children? Some studies show that children raised on restrictive macrobiotic diets suffer from growth stunting, while others show that those raised plant-based may end up being up to an inch (2.5 cm) taller. In a systematic review and meta-analysis of children on vegan diets, heights were lower in vegans, but only because they included a study in which the vegan kids were significantly younger, mostly 10 to 14 years old, compared to mostly 15 to 19 years old. Once you remove the study with the age disparity, the height disparity also disappears. What about width disparity? Population studies indicate that vegetarian diets are associated with a lower prevalence of obesity in both adults and children.