"Choosing the Safest and Most Effective Sunscreen" (webinar recording) Hello everyone and welcome. I’m Dr. Michael Greger, coming to&nbsp; you from my stationary treadmill. I see your comment in the chat&nbsp; there, Richard. No jogging. I will not make people seasick.&nbsp; This is a CME-approved webinar. Continuing medical education for doctors&nbsp; and other medical professionals as such. I’m proud to declare I have no&nbsp; relevant financial relationships&nbsp;&nbsp; with ineligible companies to disclose. That kind of declaration statement is&nbsp; necessary, given the long, chequered&nbsp;&nbsp; past of big pharma secretly propping&nbsp; up paid shills to push their products. Now they just not-so-secretly pay salespeople to&nbsp; prop up their products—but I am not one of them. If at any time you run into any technical&nbsp; difficulty, there is live chatroom staff&nbsp;&nbsp; standing by. Let me paste that link into&nbsp; the chat for everyone. There you go. If they’re unable to help, we have&nbsp; the NutritionFacts.org staff standing&nbsp;&nbsp; by too. Let me paste that into the chat as well. Okay. Please reserve the Q&amp;A button you see&nbsp; in the Zoom window—oh, did I not stop sharing? I’m sorry. I should have stopped&nbsp; sharing my blank video. All good now. Okay, where are we? Please reserve the Q&amp;A&nbsp;&nbsp; button in the Zoom chat window&nbsp; there to ask content questions. Today’s webinar is only an hour, but I’ve&nbsp; reserved lots of time for Q&amp;A at the end. So please feel free to put your questions in&nbsp; the Q&amp;A at any time throughout the webinar,&nbsp;&nbsp; and our NutritionFacts team will&nbsp; compile them to be answered at the end. You don’t have to worry about taking notes&nbsp; or anything, as after the webinar is over,&nbsp;&nbsp; we’re not only going to send&nbsp; you a full recording of it, but also a free link to download all&nbsp; the videos in high resolution so you&nbsp;&nbsp; can see the videos in their full-resolution glory. Today we are going to be talking&nbsp; about a subject that has gotten&nbsp;&nbsp; surprisingly controversial—for both&nbsp; preventing skin aging and skin cancer. The pros and cons, the best way to apply&nbsp; it, and—given the recent findings that&nbsp;&nbsp; the absorption of sunscreen chemicals into the&nbsp; bloodstream is greater than previously thought— how to choose the safest brands.&nbsp; All the videos I’m going to be&nbsp;&nbsp; showing you are eventually going&nbsp; to be up on NutritionFacts.org, but you get to see them right here, right now.&nbsp; And we start with the single most important thing,&nbsp;&nbsp; with a video entitled: "The Single Most&nbsp; Important Thing to Maintaining Youthful Skin." Let's do this. Considered the single most important practice for maintaining youthful skin: the daily application of sunscreen and taking other protective measures, like wearing a hat. All the other things you can do for your skin pale in comparison, especially for those with pale skin. Up to 90 percent of visible facial aging among people with lighter skin tones is due to exposure to sunlight. Those with darker skin are relatively protected due to their built-in melanin sunscreen, but they're still affected. Sun damage in darker skin tends to be less about wrinkles and more about pigmentation issues, such as uneven skin tone, dark patches, and small dark bumps on the face. Either way, dermatologists now agree that there is nothing more important to slow the signs of aging than to protect your skin from the sun. To illustrate, here's a dramatic photo of a trucker who spent decades getting more sun on the left side of his face through his driver's side window, reminiscent of a Batman villain. Factors like sun exposure and smoking can make us look up to 11 years older. Compare that to extensive cosmetic surgeryâ€” a face lift and a neck lift, and removing excess skin from both the upper and lower eyelids, and a forehead lift, which combined, about eight years younger. So, a healthy lifestyle may work even better. Protecting your skin from the sun should be a lifelong endeavor. This can involve applying sunscreen, wearing sun-protective clothing, hats, and sunglasses, and avoiding direct sunlight during the peak hours of 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. and instead seeking shady, covered areas. Sunbathing is frowned upon, even with sunscreens like zinc oxide or titanium dioxide that offer broad-spectrum protection against both UVA and UVB rays. We now know that other wavelengths, such as near infrared, that are not covered by sunscreens also contribute to skin aging. Men and women who use tanning beds appear significantly older than those who don't, and white women who sunbathe appear years older than they actually are, similar to what is seen with smoking. UVA rays are primarily responsible for skin aging, whereas UVB are the rays that cause sunburn, but a broad-spectrum sunscreen covering both is recommended since both types of UV contribute to cancer risk. To prevent skin cancer, the American Academy of Dermatology recommends sunscreen with an SPF of 30 or higher, but an SPF even as low as 15 can help prevent skin aging. How do we know? Because it's been put to the test. Despite the widespread belief that the use of sunscreen would prevent skin aging, all we had was data on hairless mice. That is, until ten years ago. Nine hundred adults were randomized either to years of daily sunscreen use or to continue with their own discretionary use. (It was considered unethical to withhold protection by giving people placebo sunscreen.) In the end, 77 percent in the recommended daily sunscreen group were applying sunscreen at least three to four days per week compared with only 33 percent in the discretionary use group. Would that be enough of a difference to make a difference? Yes, there was significantly less skin aging in the instructed daily use group. In fact, they suffered no detectable increase in skin aging over the four-and-a-half-year study. The researchers concluded "Regular sunscreen use retards skin aging in healthy, middle-aged men and women." Okay, so to reiterate, there's nothing&nbsp; more important to slow the signs of&nbsp;&nbsp; aging than to protect your skin from the sun. This involves avoiding direct sunlight&nbsp; since they're skin aging wavelengths&nbsp;&nbsp; not covered by sunscreens and wearing&nbsp; a daily SPF 30 plus sunscreen proven&nbsp;&nbsp; to slow aging in a randomized controlled trial. Okay, but what if you care less about how&nbsp; you look and more about avoiding cancer.&nbsp;&nbsp; Has sunscreen been similarly proven to prevent&nbsp; skin cancer? Let's find out in my next video,&nbsp;&nbsp; "Does sunscreen really prevent skin cancer?". Let's find out. Decades ago, studies started bubbling up, reporting that not only was the use of sunscreen not found to be protective against skin cancer, but it was associated with significantly elevated risk. But subsequent studies offered the obvious explanation of this paradox. People who use sunscreen are more likely to be sunbathers. That's like finding those who use motorcycle helmets are more likely to die on the highway. It's not that sunscreen and helmets aren't protective; it's just that they're associated with engagement in risky activities. But you don't know, until you put it to the test. As I noted in my last video, randomized controlled trials have shown that regular use of sunscreen can arrest visible signs of skin aging, including biopsy-proven reductions in UV-related skin damage. But are there interventional trials proving sunscreen can prevent cancer? Yes. Organ transplant recipients are highly susceptible to skin cancers because they have to be given immune suppressants to prevent organ rejection. A group of 120 organ recipients were equally informed about sun protection measures, but half were given free broad spectrum SPF 50+ sunscreen for daily application to their head, neck, forearms, and hands. After two years, there were nine new basal carcinomas in the control group versus only two in the sunscreen group. That sounds good, but it may have just been a fluke. In contrast, there was a highly significant difference in the proportion of patients who got new invasive squamous cell carcinomas. Eight new cases versus zero But wait until you hear about what happened to their actinic keratoses, the precancerous growths that can turn into skin cancer. They all started out covered in them, a total of 191 detected in each group. In the subsequent 24 months, the control group developed 82 new ones. How many did the sunscreen group develop? Negative 102. More than 100 precancerous growths in the sunscreen group spontaneously regressed and vanished completely (compared to 82 new growths developing in the control group without a single one disappearing). Their bodies, even in their immunocompromised state, could heal itself once it just stopped being bombarded with so many cancer-causing rays. Other randomized controlled trials have shown similar findings, but generalizability is limited. The studies all used high-risk populations, for example, those living in subtropical climates, or with a personal history of precancerous lesions. So, cancer prevention efficacy in the general population would be expected to be less. On the other hand, the studies could also have underestimated the impact since they were relatively short-term (not exceeding four years) and, ethically, had to allow the control group participants to slather on their own sunscreen, which would dilute the difference between groups. For maximum effectiveness, sunscreen needs to be applied properly, which apparently rarely happens in the real world. In a study of nearly 5,000 skiers and snowboarders, almost no one, only about 4 percent were fully compliant with sunscreen recommendations. First, there's the amount. The FDA standard is two milligrams per square centimeter. What does that mean? Use the teaspoon rule: one teaspoon for your face, head and neck, one for the front of your torso, another for your back, one teaspoon for each arm and two teaspoons for each leg. That's a total of nine teaspoons. That's about the total volume equivalent of a golf ball or shot glass, to help you visualize it. Unfortunately, the average sunscreen user may only apply a quarter of the recommended amount. This is why high SPF sunscreens are often recommended, like 50+ SPF. Although the FDA recommends a minimum SPF of only 15 to prevent skin cancer, under normal consumer conditions, even an SPF of 50 may effectively give you only an SPF of 12.5, because most people don't put on enough. Randomized double-blind, head-to-head, split-face experiments, where you're randomized to apply one sunscreen to one side of your face and another sunscreen to the other side, show that in real life use, SPF 100+ sunscreen works significantly better than SPF 50+ sunscreen. More than 50 percent of the participants were sunburned more on their SPF 50+ side compared to only about 5 percent on their SPF 100+ side. Now, a potential downside of higher SPF sunscreens is that they could provide a false sense of security. Those randomized to an SPF 30 sunscreen ended up spending more cumulative time in the sun than those receiving an SPF 10 sunscreen, as much as five times longer in some cases. What else? Well, people tend to remember to use sunscreen on a sunny day at the beach, but sun protection is needed even on cloudy days, since the UV rays are not dampened as much as visible light. There's even a phenomenon known as "cloud enhancement" where overcast skies can sometimes result in even more UV reaching the Earth's surface compared to clear skies. Sunscreen labels often suggest waiting at least 15 minutes after application before going outdoors, but when put to the test, sunscreen was found to start working immediately with the full effect apparent by minute ten. However, if water resistance is required, it may be prudent to wait the full 15 to 30 minutes before taking a dip. The terms "waterproof" or "sweatproof" appear to be meaningless marketing, as no difference in retention was noted between "waterproof" products and those that were merely labeled "water-resistant." Both were better than non-water-resistant products, though, which lost nearly all their protective effects within 20 minutes of water immersion. The suggestion that sunscreen should be reapplied every two to three hours only applies under conditions in which it is rinsed off by water or sweat, or rubbed off by friction from clothing or sand. Even after allowing sunscreen to dry first for 20 minutes, between 15 and 60 percent of its protective effect can be lost after contact with sand. Otherwise, if the recommended amount is applied and the sunscreen layer is not disturbed, SPF can be maintained for as long as eight hours. Oh, tons of content in that video. I mean, I think the coolest thing was that&nbsp; study showing the spontaneous regression of&nbsp;&nbsp; more than a hundred precancerous&nbsp; growths in the sunscreen group. Vanishing completely, right? Their bodies—even in that immunocompromised&nbsp; state—could heal themselves when they just— when we just—stopped bombarding them&nbsp; with so many cancer-causing rays, right? It reminds me of the famous Lifestyle&nbsp; Heart Trial from Dean Ornish, showing that you could, you know, open up&nbsp; arteries without drugs, without surgery— just by putting people on a&nbsp; plant-based diet and lifestyle program. Suggesting that their bodies&nbsp; wanted to be healthy all along, and all we had to do was remove the fork we&nbsp; were stabbing ourselves with three times a day, and then the body could just heal naturally&nbsp; once we take away the kind of noxious stimuli. And so, in this case, it’s&nbsp; the UV rays from the sun. Okay, so, you know—the teaspoon&nbsp; rule, maybe go 50+ SPF. And then sunny days, cloudy days—that cloud&nbsp; enhancement thing I never heard of, that’s wild. But okay, the one thing I didn’t&nbsp; cover: which sunscreen is best. And that’s what I’m going to be wrapping up with— the best type of sunscreen to use. What kind of sunscreen should you use? Cream-based is preferable to spray-on, since the completeness of application is more readily visualized. To help with adequate coverage, spray-on sunscreens should be rubbed on immediately after spraying. Aerosolized sunscreens are flammable and can combust on skin upon exposure to an open flame, even after the sunscreen has dried. What's more, the safety of breathing in aerosolized sunscreen chemicals has not been adequately studied, though frankly the same thing could be said about rubbing them on your skin. The concerns surrounding sunscreen safety are three-fold: increased intentional sun exposure, vitamin D deficiency, and untoward effects from systemic absorption of sunscreen chemicals. In the 1800s, we first learned that UVB caused sunburns and formulated sunscreens to block it. Nearly a century later, we learned about the contribution of UVA. Now, a full century later, we are realizing that infrared and visible light may also be contributing to cancer and premature skin aging. Sunlight comes to us in three major bands: visible light, ultraviolet, and infrared. Visible light includes the colors of the rainbow— red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet, or ROYGBIV. Ultraviolet—UV—is to the right of violet in ROYGBIV, and infrared to the left of red. Sunscreen can protect us against the free radical damage of UV, but half of the free radical formation in our skin from the sun may be from the visible or infrared spectrums, which sunscreens may not adequately cover. So, that's where sun avoidance strategies come in, but you can imagine how shade-seeking could be undermined by the solacement of a sunscreen security blanket. What about vitamin D? The theoretical concern about sunscreen affecting vitamin D status does not seem to manifest in the real world, likely because the UV dose necessary for vitamin D production is so low, well before skin turns a pinker shade. However, concerns about the systemic absorption of sunscreen chemicals were underscored by the recent FDA bombshell that not a single one in current use can be considered generally recognized as safe. Only two active ingredients got the green light, the two non-chemical "mineral" sunscreens: titanium dioxide and zinc oxide. The revelation was based on a growing body of evidence that transdermal, meaning through-the-skin, absorption was greater than we previously thought, raising unevaluated safety concerns. Unevaluated, because we previously didn't think so much got into our bloodstreams. In 2019, a study published in the Journal of the American Medical Association found that under maximum usage conditions over a period of days, the blood levels of all the sunscreen chemicals they tested exceeded the FDA threshold that could potentially waive further safety testing. Then, in 2020, they found that just a single application of all the chemical sunscreens surpassed the threshold. Now, just because they're absorbed into our system, doesn't necessarily mean they're unsafe. It just means they need to be tested for safety, which, the FDA determined, the multibillion-dollar sunscreen industry has so far failed to do. The FDA concluded that two ingredients can be considered safe— zinc oxide and titanium dioxide, and two can be considered unsafe— P.A.B.A. and trolamine salicylate. And the other 12 ingredients that are currently marketed have yet to be sufficiently safety tested. According to a review of more than 700 sunscreen brands, it appears P.A.B.A. and trolamine are no longer being marketed in sunscreens sold in the United States, but they still may be available in other countries. Until the data are in on the rest of the chemical sunscreens, I would recommend sticking to the two mineral sunscreens. Historically, they've tended to be thicker and whiter, which could lead to even more severe underdosing, but newer micronized formulations with smaller mineral particle sizes tend to be less noticeable. This is particularly an issue for those with darker skin. The average built-in SPF of black skin (also known in the medical literature as "ethnic skin" or "SOC," skin of color) is about 13 naturally, compared with only about three for white skin. Though there haven't been any interventional studies on sunscreen effectiveness for skin cancer prevention in people with dark skin, SPF 13 is not considered sufficient sun protection; so, the American Academy of Dermatology recommends regular sunscreen use with an SPF of 30 or higher for people of all skin types. Unfortunately, only about 12 percent of non-Hispanic Blacks and 31 percent of Hispanics report regularly using sunscreen, compared to about 44 percent of non-Hispanic whites. Despite this, the incidence of melanoma, the deadliest skin cancer, is five times lower in Hispanics compared to whites and more than 25 times lower among Blacks. However, the mortality rate if you do get it is higher among African Americans, presumed to be due from delayed diagnosis. Okay, so in short, only two sunscreen active&nbsp; ingredients can be considered safe at this time, and that’s the two so-called mineral&nbsp; sunscreens: titanium dioxide and zinc oxide. Though remember, in the first part of the video, we talked about how that may really only cover UV— the ultraviolet range—so sun&nbsp; avoidance is still important, since maybe half the free radicals created by&nbsp; sun exposure are from the non-covered spectrum. And so, so it’s—so avoidance, in addition to&nbsp; using good sunscreens, is still important. Absolutely outrageous that the safety&nbsp; testing wasn’t done by industry, but now they’re going to be&nbsp; forced to—and it’s about time. All right, Q&amp;A time. Happy to talk about anything that came up today or any related topics on skin aging in general. Got a whole chapter on it in How Not to Age, and so we could bring up the pre-release sneak&nbsp; preview and go through anything you’d like. Let me just give NutritionFacts staff&nbsp; five minutes to compile the questions that have been submitted so&nbsp; far through the Q&amp;A button. It’s not too late if you want to ask one now— and then I will be right back. [Q&amp;A portion not captioned]