"Choosing the Best Greens to Boost GLP-1 for Weight Loss" In my last video, I showed how starting your day with a single dose of thylakoids increased feelings of satiety and decreased hunger and cravings for snacks and sweets throughout the day. We’re talking about a powdered spinach extract equivalent to just half a cup (80 g) of cooked greens. Significantly less desire for salty snacks over the next nine hours compared to placebo, with just one dose of greens. for sweet snacks, sweet and fat, snacks in general. Thylakoids, thus, provide a powerful strategy to suppress the urge for so-called "palatable" food, potato chips, chocolate, cinnamon buns, and the like. But despite the lower hunger and greater satiety, food intake throughout the day was not significantly affected. In a systematic review of randomized clinical trials on the effects of thylakoid intake on appetite and weight loss, the hunger-suppressing effects of thylakoids were reported in all the relevant studies, but what about the weight-loss part? Instead of a single dose of greens, what about the same dose every day for three months? The title gives it away: you get a loss of body weight, reduced cravings, and increased release of the appetite-suppressing hormone GLP-1. The average amount of weight loss was only about three pounds (1 kg), but the study participants also got a significant drop in cholesterol of 20 points, and, as you can see, the drop in cholesterol preceded significant weight loss; so, the cholesterol benefit wasn’t just because weight was being lost. And 20 points? That’s the kind of result you get using an earlier class of cholesterol-lowering drugs. GLP-1 was also boosted by about 40 percent, and check this out: significantly lower cravings for sweets even 11 hours after spinach intake. And, remember, the spinach powder was hidden; so, people didn’t know which group they were in, didn’t know if they were getting greens or placebo. And 11 hours later, they were, like, chocolate? Eh, no thanks. Uh, got any spinach? So, not only were there decreased cravings in the six hours prior to lunch, but also decreased cravings afterwards-- all from just getting that one single dose of greens in the morning. That’s the power of GLP-1. Now, one of the authors had a conflict of interest, affiliations with companies trying to commercialize thylakoid products, and you can see it in the spin. They described the spinach extract as markedly reducing body weight, but I wouldn’t consider three pounds (1 kg) "markedly." They boast that the 6 percent weight loss was comparable to an older GLP-1 drug available at the time, suggesting that increasing the natural release of GLP-1 may be as efficient as pharmacological agents for the treatment for obesity. Of course, our new GLP-1 drugs can decrease body weight by more than 6 percent, but the 6 percent loss in this study was from baseline, not compared to placebo. Those on the placebo lost about 4 percent of their body weight; so, weight loss attributable to the spinach was more like only 2 percent. And another eight-week study found no significant difference at all. So, when they took their supplement to the European equivalent of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to try to make a weight-loss health claim, the panel was, like, a 1 percent weight loss? That’s really not going to do much. Whether these appetite-lowering effects of thylakoids could be a useful strategy in controlling obesity in the long term is still ambiguous. More studies are needed. And, here we go, the latest thylakoid weight loss study. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial with that same dose equivalent to half a cup (80 g) of cooked greens, and there was a significant decrease in body weight, fat mass, waist circumference, waist-to-height ratio, and body mass index (BMI) compared to placebo-- and, by a decent amount. Individuals in the spinach group lost 15 pounds (7 kg), compared to 7 in the placebo group. Eight more pounds (3 kg) of weight loss on greens than placebo. And that included 8 pounds of straight fat, including 4 more centimeters off the waist. So, based on a systematic review of the potential effects of thylakoids in the management of obesity, eating green can suppress hunger, reduce food intake, and result in weight loss. Greens can offer a means to strengthen our resolve to refrain from eating, especially when we’re in a kind of high-doughnut environment where there is "superfluous access to foods processed to deliver qualities that some may find irresistible." It’s interesting, even supplementing a breakfast that was only 11 percent fat with thylakoids resulted in decreased hunger and cravings, suggesting that there might be other mechanisms for the appetite-suppressive effect of thylakoids beyond just slowing the digestion of fat. Here are some of the proposed mechanisms aside from GLP-1 that may be contributing to weight loss. Regardless, what’s the best way to get them? Not from the supplement aisle, but rather the produce aisle. And remember, that’s where the chlorophyll is found; so, you can see with your own eyes which veggies have more thylakoids by how dark green they are. What happens when you cook greens? Blanched for 15 seconds or so in steaming or boiling water, they actually get even brighter green, but if you cook them too long, they eventually turn a drab olive brown. When greens are overcooked, their thylakoids physically degrade, along with their ability to slow fat absorption. Within that first minute of cooking, when the green gets even more vibrant, though, there’s a slight boost in fat-blocking ability. So, you can gauge thylakoid activity in both the grocery store and in your kitchen with your own two eyes. We have been chewing on leaves for millions of years, but today, the greenest thing about some people’s diets may be AST. Patty’s Day pint. Americans have averaged fewer than two grams of spinach a day, not even half a teaspoon. But our bodies were designed to have thylakoids passing through our systems on a daily basis; so, that delay in fat absorption we get from them can be thought of as our default, normal state. It’s only when we eat diets deficient in greens that we suffer the accelerated fat digestion that undercuts our natural satiety mechanisms. In the journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, a group of food technologists argued that, given their fat-blocking benefits, "thylakoid membranes could be incorporated in functional foods as a new promising appetite-reducing ingredient," or you can just get them the way Mother Nature intended.