"Do the Side Effects of ozempic (Semaglutide) Outweigh the Benefits?" "Thinner is better," is the conventional wisdom when it comes to minimizing the risk of cardiovascular events like heart attacks and strokes, but there have been cases where weight loss medications actually led to increased cardiovascular risk despite significant reductions in body fat. So, we can’t just assume drug-induced weight loss will help. Now, if it’s true that GLP-1 drugs, like ozempic, reduce cardiovascular events, which are some of our leading causes of death, then that benefit would significantly overwhelm the risk of almost any amount of thyroid cancer these drugs may cause. Let’s look at the data. Some major trials have found that among high-risk individuals with diabetes, risk of cardiovascular events were significantly lower among those randomized to ozempic compared to placebo injections, but other trials did not. Interesting how the lack of benefit was spun by saying, "Hey, it’s not inferior to placebo." But that was the main concern, that ozempic, like some other weight loss drugs, could actually increase cardiovascular disease. So, it was considered a relief that it had no effect. Enough evidence of benefit accrued, though, that ozempic and another GLP-1 drug were approved for cardiovascular protection among individuals with Type II diabetes. Remember, these were originally prescribed as diabetes drugs. So, maybe users reduced their cardiovascular risk just by lowering their blood sugars rather than by lowering their weight. What we want to know is this. What is the effect of ozempic on cardiovascular outcomes in obesity for people without diabetes? And, in patients who have preexisting cardiovascular disease, and are overweight or obese, but do not have diabetes, those randomized to weight loss doses of ozempic had an overall lower rate of either having a cardiovascular event, like a heart attack or stroke, or dying from it, compared to placebo. That’s exciting, but we have to highlight another caveat, though. The researchers just looked at those with preexisting cardiovascular disease. That is an important limitation of these findings. The effects of these weight-loss drugs on the prevention of cardiovascular events in those without diagnosed atherosclerotic disease have not yet been determined. Still, a lot of overweight people have a history of heart attack, stroke, or peripheral vascular disease. So, how big is the benefit? Over a period of a few years, 8% of people with cardiovascular disease suffered another event on the placebo, but only 6.5% suffered a subsequent event on the drug. Going from 8 to 6.5 is a 20% drop. You can see it clearly if you zoom in. Unfortunately, many news stories focused on that 20% relative risk reduction rather than on the absolute risk reduction of 1.5%. Yes, 8 to 6.5 is a 20% drop, but, at the same time, you’re really only reducing your absolute risk by 1.5%. In other words, you’d have to treat 67 people with the drug for a few years to prevent one heart attack or stroke or cardiovascular death. That may not sound like much on an individual scale. I mean, what are the odds you’re going to be that 1 in 67th person? But on a population scale, it’s huge. In fact, it’s right up there with cholesterol-lowering statin drugs, which have an absolute risk reduction in the same 1.5% ballpark. So, indeed, in March 2024, the Food and Drug Administration approved high-dose ozempic for use beyond just weight loss but also for reducing cardiovascular risk in those with prior cardiovascular disease. So, how do the benefits and harms stack up? In the summer of 2024, the first quantitative benefit-harm balance analysis was published. The researchers concluded that for those achieving a 10% weight loss, there’s more than a 90% chance the benefits outweigh the harms, though the opposite was found for only a 5% weight loss. Here’s how they broke it down. If 1,000 people go on these GLP-1 drugs, 375 would be expected to lose at least 10% of their body weight with all the ancillary benefits that would bring. On the other side of the equation, 41 people would suffer from abdominal pain, 57 from hair loss, 8 from gallstones, 118 from constipation, 100 from diarrhea, 22 from dizziness, 84 from an upset stomach, 46 from excessive burping, 39 from fatigue, 51 from excessive farting, 13 from headaches, 17 from low blood sugars, 4 from reactions at the injection site. 221 would suffer from nausea, 4 from pancreatitis, 43 from upper abdominal pain, and 110 from vomiting. Now, of course, the net benefit versus harm calculation would be highly dependent on different people’s willingness to accept different harms. Like a bald guy isn’t going to be concerned about hair loss, for example. And this also doesn’t take into account the fact that the benefits peter out. Weight loss stalls after a year, but the harms may continue. So, once you’ve already plateaued and stop losing weight, do you keep taking it even though you get no further weight-loss benefit but the potential for harm continues to accumulate? We really don’t know about the long-term harms or benefits because some of these drugs and dosing schedules are so new, especially now that the American Academy of Pediatrics has suggested offering these drugs for teens and tweens as young as age 12. These drugs work by acting on the brain, so, who knows what effect this could have on childhood development and beyond, if they end up taking them for the rest of their lives. In the end, this story is familiar. A new class of antidiabetic agents is rushed to market and widely promoted in the absence of any evidence of long-term beneficial outcomes. Evidence of harms accumulate, but it’s vigorously denied or discounted. The manufacturers are expected, quite unrealistically, to monitor the safety of their own products. We should be thankful that those responsible for aircraft safety do not operate under the same assumption. Although we now do have evidence of at least near-term benefit over a few years, we cannot assume long-term safety until it has been demonstrated.