I’m often asked how I create the videos you see on NutritionFacts.org. It’s not just me, it’s a whole team of staff and volunteers who help bring the videos to life. It all starts with the research and every round of new videos, I read through every issue of every English-language nutrition journal in the world —so busy folks like you don’t have to. And that’s just the tip of the iceberg. More than 300,000 nutrition papers are published every year in the scientific medical literature in general —about 1,000 studies a day. I typically start with what I call “anchor” articles. These are the new studies juicy enough to center a video around. Papers that are groundbreaking, practical, with actionable information, and engaging. Sometimes there’s trailblazing new science with hands-on implications, but unless I can find a way to make the information interesting— by adding humor or intrigue, or solving a mystery— sometimes, sadly, it just doesn’t make the cut. Once I have the anchor paper, the real work begins: performing a comprehensive search of all the available literature to place that particular paper in context. We primarily use PubMed.gov, the database of the National Library of Medicine, but I have started dabbling with AI search tools like Elicit.org. Of course, just because something is published in the peer-reviewed medical literature doesn’t mean it’s true. There are studies funded by the National Confectioners Association that purport to find that candy is just dandy, so it always helps to take potential funding bias into account. Our article retrieval volunteers then help download all the articles we need to read to analyze and synthesize the best available balance of evidence into an annotated script. Once the scripting work is done, every script is fact-checked, then videos are created by the amazing team at Avo Media. They’re then reviewed again by eagle-eyed volunteers and our fact- checker and staff, then are polished, translated, and prepped to share with the world. We’ve also just brought on a couple of new researchers to help update the oldest videos on NutritionFacts.org. These videos are outdated, a little embarrassing, but the topics are still fresh and there’s a lot more research available, so they’ll be getting an entirely new refresh. This is all possible because of our supporters. Everything on the website is free. There are no ads, no corporate sponsorships. It’s strictly noncommercial, I’m not selling anything. I just put it up as a public service, as a labor of love. If NutritionFacts.org has helped you or your family in any way and you’d like to do your part to keep the site going strong, please consider joining the thousands of individuals who support this important work and make a donation to the 501(c)(3) nonprofit that is NutritionFacts.org.