"How Well Do GLP-1 Drugs Like ozempic (Semaglutide) Work for Weight Loss?" Older weight-loss medications achieve approximately 5 percent reduction in body weight over placebo, whereas these new GLP-1 agonists, like ozempic, produce about triple the effect, about 15 percent. But what does that mean in terms of numbers on the scale? In an analysis of more than 100 clinical trials of earlier anti-obesity medications, in studies lasting up to 76 weeks, drug-induced weight loss never exceeded more than 9 pounds (4 kg). If you put all the GLP-1 drug trials together, over an average of about a year, they led to about 19 pounds (8 kg) of weight loss. And that folded in some of the older GLP-1 drugs, like liraglutide, that don’t work as well. If you just look at semaglutide, the high-dose ozempic sold as Wegovy for weight loss, we’re looking at more like 27 pounds (12 kg) lost, which translates into about three and a half inches (9 cm) off the waist. Which GLP-1 drug works best? An oral version of ozempic has been developed. Though it hasn’t been approved for weight loss, preliminary evidence suggests it causes similar weight loss to the injectable version. The latest GLP-1 drug approved for weight loss, tirzepatide, sold as Zepbound, appears to beat out semaglutide, with nearly 19 percent of body weight lost, over 40 pounds (18 kg), with more like five and a half inches (14 cm) off the waist. How does that compare to bariatric surgery? It’s actually not that far off from long-term surgical weight loss. Now, remember, these are averages. Bariatric surgery doesn’t always work. The failure rate for the gold standard procedure is approximately 20 percent, but not everyone responds to the GLP-1 drugs either. In the big ozempic trials, about a third of people were "super responders," but as many as one in six didn’t lose significant weight at all, even after taking the drug for more than a year. So, despite impressive results at a population level, up to 20 percent of patients fail to achieve significant weight loss with either surgical or drug-based approaches. Here’s the longest trial to date, four years of high-dose ozempic for weight loss. Here’s how the spread looked at the end of Year Two, with each of the thousands of participants lined up from those losing the most weight to the those losing the least. The average weight loss was about 10 percent; so, some lost even more weight, and sometimes, a lot more weight, some lost less, and some even gained weight, as much as maybe 40 pounds (18 kg), even after continuing to inject the drug for years. Here’s the average weight-loss curve of those getting high-dose ozempic for four years, versus those getting placebo injections, for an overall weight loss over placebo of about 9 percent. OK, but the most striking thing about this graph is the plateau. They were being injected with the drug the whole four years, but weight loss stalled after only about a year. This happened in study after study after study after study, with both ozempic and the newer tirzepatide. So, even under the best of circumstances, with the most potent GLP-1 drugs taken at the highest allowable dose for at least a year to obtain the full weight loss, we’re only looking at a 34-pound (15 kg) drop before the weight loss stops. So, if you look at all three of the original placebo-controlled ozempic weight loss trials, the participants started out obese, and after more than a year on the drug (when it effectively stopped working), they were still obese. They were certainly less obese, but still obese. Then, to keep yourself at that same level of obese, you still have to keep injecting it at, like, $1,000 a month, or you’ll go back to your original level of obese. But why does the weight loss plateau, and what exactly happens when you do stop the drugs? I’ll cover both those questions next.