"How to Control the Muscle Loss Side Effects (Like “ozempic Face”) of GLP-1 Drugs" GLP-1 type drugs, like ozempic, function by making patients feel fuller, eat less, and hence, lose weight. However, an important but often overlooked factor in these studies of these kinds of drugs relates to the type of weight that’s lost. Typically, when people who are obese lose weight, the decrease in their fat-free mass, meaning essentially their lean mass, including their muscles, usually represents about 25 percent of their total weight loss. So, for every 4 pounds (2 kg) lost on the scale, one of those pounds is not fat. But on drugs like ozempic, as much as 40 percent of the total weight lost is that lean mass, nearly half the pounds you’re losing. Those on ozempic or tirzepatide, a newer GLP-1 drug sold as Zepbound, lost about 14 pounds (6 kg) of lean mass, about one eighth of all the lean mass in their body. That’s worse than the amount of lean mass you lose when you have esophageal cancer, or head and neck cancer. Now, some people paid by the pharma companies that make GLP-1-type drugs question whether the amount of muscle mass loss is clinically relevant. But these drugs cause such rapid and significant loss of lean mass, that it’s comparable to how much you’d lose over a decade or more of aging. The drug industry consultants argue that even if 40 percent of the weight lost is lean mass, that still means the majority, 60 percent, is fat; so, you end up with a better fat-to-lean ratio, in the end. But that’s just on the first go-around. Remember, most people don’t stick to these drugs for more than a few months, either because they can’t keep paying a thousand bucks a month for them, or they don’t want to put up with all the side effects, or deal with drug shortages, or run out of refills. And when you stop these drugs, we know the lost body fat piles on back, but there’s a concern that any lost muscle mass may not; so, you then actually end up fatter in the end. This kind of weight cycling has been associated with extra fat deposition on the body, especially around the middle. Using the gold-standard method, MRI, to directly visualize muscle mass, researchers found that the more times people cycle their weight, the worse their body composition appears to get. The profound level of lean mass loss associated with GLP-1 weight-loss drugs would be expected to have deleterious impacts on health outcomes, including increased frailty and perhaps greater long-term mortality risk, though, this concern remains theoretical, since any such long-term data have yet to be published. The good news is there’s something we can do about it. Exercise, particularly resistance exercise, like weight training, can cut in half or more the proportion of fat-free mass that is lost. Check this out: Based on half a dozen studies of caloric restriction for weight loss (like portion control), and the same calorie restriction plus resistance exercise, you can see that it appears the non-exercising group lost more weight. You can guess why, though, because without the resistance exercise, they lost more lean mass, whereas the exercising group lost nine pounds (4 kg) apparently without losing any lean mass. Supervised resistance training interventions, up to a few times a week for more than 10 weeks, where all major muscle groups are worked, can add a few extra pounds of lean mass. More with weights than cardio, more when younger, and more in men than women. Collectively, this evidence supports resistance training as an effective approach to, at the very least, help mitigate the decrease in lean mass; so, programs such as these should be adopted without delay in patients embarking on ozempic-type therapy. What about "ozempic face"? The term has consumed the media with the medication’s rising popularity and describes rapid weight loss in the face that leaves a distorted appearance. And I’d never even heard of ozempic butt. Media reports have linked the drug to facial aging, but perhaps it’s not so much the medication as much as the potent weight-loss effects that leave a sagging appearance due to the loss of fat in the face. While this seems logical, the explanation cannot fully account for the markedly accelerated facial aging seen in GLP-1 drug patients. The premature facial aging and altered skin health appears to be multifactorial, involving not only the loss of fat in the face, but an effect on stem cells and the production and secretion of hormonal and metabolic factors. These changes compromise the structural integrity and barrier function of the skin and may lead to diminished facial muscle mass as well, further exacerbating the appearance of aging. Another side effect of rapid weight loss is gallstones, which is not limited to GLP-1 drugs. Shedding all that excess cholesterol stored in your fat cells can lead to it crystallizing in your bile like rock candy, forming gallstones. Something else to be cognizant of, but in a way, both the muscle loss and gallstones may just be signs of how effective these drugs can be for losing weight. In my last video, I talked about the common side effects, but as semaglutide’s popularity soars, rare but serious adverse effects are emerging. Like, what about possible thyroid cancer, pancreatitis, kidney problems, depression, or suicidal thoughts? I’ll cover all those next.