"How to Control the Gastrointestinal Side Effects of GLP-1 Drugs Like ozempic (Semaglutide)" It appears the vast majority of people prescribed GLP-1 drugs stop taking them in a matter of months. But compare that to older weight loss drugs. Those had a 98 percent failure rate. As I’ve mentioned, in drug trials, most people taking these types of weight-loss drugs started out obese and ended up obese no matter how long they stayed on them, but that’s just on average. Some people, despite being on high-dose ozempic for years, actually ended up heavier than when they started, and most remained overweight, but a small fraction of them, about 1 in 25, plateaued down at a normal weight. One in 25 doesn’t sound like a lot, but obese individuals are rarely able to achieve a normal weight. Without something drastic, like bariatric surgery, only about 1 in 200 men with class 1 obesity, or 1 in 100 women, are able to find their way back to a normal weight; so, these drugs really can have a huge effect on a select few. Of course, you’d presumably have to stay on them forever to maintain that weight loss at a cost of maybe $16,000 a year. But even for those who can afford the cost, the main reason they stop taking GLP-1 drugs is the gastrointestinal side-effect profile. The most common side effects of ozempic-type drugs include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and constipation. And they may also heighten the risk of pancreatitis, kidney failure, and thyroid cancer, but for now, let’s stick to the common ones. These significant adverse gastrointestinal effects were demonstrated in virtually all trials, though they weren’t bad enough to cause more than 15 percent of trial participants to drop out, and the vast majority of adverse effects got better after they stopped the drugs. Here are the numbers: 44 percent experienced nausea, 30 percent diarrhea, 24 percent vomiting, 24 percent constipation, and 20 percent abdominal pain. But 16 percent of those on the placebo injections experienced nausea or diarrhea too; so, it wasn’t all due to the drug. People don’t tend to just spontaneously vomit, though; so, that’s more likely to be a drug-induced effect. So, some people may not experience side effects at all, and these GI side effects have been shown likely to be dose-dependent, and more common during the dose escalation period. Thus, it’s recommended that these medications are started at lower doses and only increased as tolerated. So, starting low and going slow, gradually nudging up the dose over many months, can minimize some of these side effects. And in terms of what patients can do: Eat slowly, smaller portions. Eat a low-fat diet. Small sips of fluid. Get some fresh air. Crackers, apples, mint, ginger. Stay hydrated. Avoid sports drinks, dairy products, coffee, alcohol, and soft drinks. Temporarily reduce your intake of fiber or increase it, depending on symptoms. And if things get really bad, avoid drinking during meals. If the symptoms persist or worsen, let your healthcare provider know ASAP. One thing your doctor can do is prescribe anti-vomiting drugs to counter the side effects of the original drugs, but if you don’t feel nauseated all the time, will you still lose weight? Yes, even people who don’t feel sick to their stomach can experience the appetite suppression that leads to weight loss. GLP-1 also makes you feel fuller for longer by slowing down the rate at which food leaves your stomach. That contributes to the nausea and vomiting, and can lead to a serious complication if you have to go under anesthesia for surgery. GLP-1 drugs slow your stomach down so much that the American Society of Anesthesiologists recommends people stop taking the drugs for up to a week prior to procedures so you don’t go under the knife with a full stomach, for fear that you’ll aspirate stomach contents into your lungs. It turns out that may not even be long enough. Patients taking these drugs had a higher prevalence of increased residual gastric contents despite fasting even if they stopped these drugs a week before. So, if you’re going in for elective surgery, consider stopping a drug like ozempic at least three weeks before. Stopping these drugs for a month or so may not be tenable for diabetics using it to control their blood sugars, but if you’re just doing it for your weight, it’s a good idea to hold off.