"Is One Egg a Day Too Much?" The NIH-AARP study, sponsored by the National Institutes of Health and the American Association of Retired Persons, is the largest forward-looking, in-depth study on diet and health in history. Based on its six million person-years of observation, replacing just three percent of daily caloric intake of animal protein with plant protein was associated with a 10 percent decreased risk of premature death. Just a three percent swap! Of all the animal protein sources, eggs were found to be the worst. Swapping in three percent of plant protein for egg protein with twice the benefit, more than 20 percent lower mortality, having scrambled tofu instead. In fact, each half an egg a day with a seven percent increase in all-cause mortality. Just half an egg? That's consistent with six other U.S. cohort studies that collectively found that each additional half an egg consumed per day was significantly associated with a higher risk of getting cardiovascular disease and dying prematurely from all causes put together. And this higher risk of death persisted even after taking other lifestyle behaviors into account, including overall dietary quality. In other words, it doesn't appear to just be because people eating more eggs were also eating more bacon, for example. A meta-analysis of all such studies confirmed that greater egg consumption confers higher risks of death from all causes. Another meta-analysis including other types of studies involving nearly 12 million participants echoed that it may be prudent to avoid high egg consumption. But what does "high" mean? What's the safe amount? It's not quite clear. One meta-analysis suggests there's little evidence for elevated risks below half an egg a day, whereas another found that adding even one egg a week to your diet might increase your risk of dying from cancer. If the data on detriment are so clear, based on studies involving millions of people, why is there still controversy? Because the egg industry manufactures that controversy. Just like the sugar industry does with sugar. Dr. Barnard's written about it. I've written about it. As noted by the director of the Stroke Prevention and Atherosclerosis Research Centre, "After being convicted for false advertising for suggesting that eggs were safe, the egg industry has spent hundreds of millions of dollars trying to convince the public, physicians, and policy makers that dietary cholesterol and eggs are harmless." Yet a meta-analysis of more than 50 randomized controlled trials found that egg consumption significantly increases LDL cholesterol. Online, some bloggers parrot the egg industry's talking points that the 2015 U.S. dietary guidelines removed the dietary cholesterol limit to consume less than 300 milligrams of dietary cholesterol a day, whereas if anyone bothered to actually read the actual guidelines, they'd see that the guidelines actually strengthen the recommendation and tell Americans to "eat as little dietary cholesterol as possible," as recommended by the Institute of Medicine, the most prestigious medical body in the United States. This advice was reiterated in the most recent dietary guidelines: "The National Academies recommends that dietary cholesterol consumption be as low as possible," using the rationale that any intake above zero increases LDL cholesterol concentration in the blood and, therefore, increases the risk of the number one killer of men and women.