"Is Obesity Caused by a GLP-1 Hormone Deficiency?" Can we drug our way out of the obesity crisis? This 60 Minutes episode certainly seemed to suggest we could. Only later did we learn that 60 Minutes had been paid by the makers of ozempic to air a 13-minute promotional segment and pass it off as a news story. Are these GLP-1 drugs the answer to the obesity epidemic? The head of the European Association for the Study of Obesity was pretty bullish, conveniently failing to disclose that his group had received millions of dollars from the drug maker. But doesn’t getting a tiny weekly injection sound far easier than getting all sweaty in the gym? Do these game-changing new medications "make lifestyle-based treatment of obesity obsolete"? Let’s ask those paid by the two main GLP-1 drug makers, which now have a combined net worth greater than a trillion dollars. The World Obesity Federation, which evidently just got a million dollars from the ozempic company, published a consensus statement in one of its journals favoring the definition of obesity as a disease. This designation may not benefit patients, but it will benefit doctors and drug companies when health insurance and clinical guidelines promote treatment with drugs and surgery. A concern is that labeling obesity as a disease risks reducing our autonomy, disempowering and robbing us of the intrinsic motivation that’s an important enabler of change. It encourages fatalism, promoting the fallacy that genetics are destiny. But, of course, it can’t be our genes. The obesity epidemic only started a few decades ago. Our genes didn’t somehow magically change in the late 1970s. Others blame lack of willpower, but that doesn’t make any sense either. All of us coincidentally lost our collective self-control? It’s the food. The rise in the number of excess calories provided by the U.S. food supply is more than sufficient to explain the obesity epidemic. Obesity is not some moral failing. The battle of the bulge is a battle against biology. We’re living in a toxic food environment, drowning in a sea of excess calories, being bombarded with ads for fast food and candy. Becoming overweight is a normal, natural response to the abnormal, unnatural ubiquity of sugary, fatty foods that are concentrated with calories. So, the prime cause for the obesity epidemic is neither gluttony nor sloth. Being overweight may simply be a normal response, by normal people, to an abnormal situation. And with nearly three-quarters of Americans overweight, it’s literally normal. So, if obesity is to be understood as "normal physiology within a pathological environment," there is an argument that drugs like ozempic really aren’t tackling the root cause of obesity. These drugs will likely have only a modest effect on reducing the rapidly growing epidemic and may even make it worse, as Big Pharma and its lobbyists try to shift society’s focus to drugs rather than broader public health strategies. The real solution would involve fixing the food system, but why would Big Food change its ways if obesity can be treated with drugs? So, the main actors responsible for creating and perpetuating the obesity-generating world will continue undisturbed. England’s health secretary was keen to use GLP-1 drugs as a "way of preventing illness without resorting to ’nanny state’ measures," but advocates are just talking about things like restricting the thousands of ads kids see every year for candy, liquid candy (soft drinks), breakfast candy, and fast food. A quarter century ago, the term "Social Determinants of Health" was coined, defined as the nonmedical factors that influence health too often ignored by the medical establishment, such as poverty. They explain why the top 1 percent, for example, live about 10 to 15 years longer than the bottom 1 percent. More recently, based on experience with the alcohol and tobacco industries, the concept of "Commercial Determinants of Health" was introduced, which can be defined as "factors that influence health which stem from the profit motive," also referred to as the Corporate Determinants of Health. The food and beverage sectors spend huge amounts on developing and marketing products packed with sugar, fat, and salt, deliberately designed to lead to addictive consumption that contributes to the increasing prevalence of chronic disease. Public corporations like Coca-Cola have a legal duty to maximize return to their shareholders, and those running the companies are heavily incentivized to achieve this. Many observers are outraged by stories of what some of these companies do to maximize returns, but as people working in the tobacco industry can testify, being the subject of widespread disrepute is more than offset by the financial rewards. And psychological defense mechanisms can take care of any residual unease about contributing to the suffering and death of fellow humans whom they do not personally know. The greatest challenge to improving health may lie in the tension between wealth creation and health creation.