We all want to eat the kinds of foods that make us feel better and live longer. But there’s so much conflicting information out there, so many nutrition opinions. Welcome to the Nutrition Facts Podcast, I’m your host, Dr. Michael Greger. It’s my job to give you the information you need to make the healthiest choices possible. What’s the best way to protect one of our most important senses? We start with the story of two very important plant pigments that help guard against age- related macular degeneration. Anyone who has ever got a sunburn knows how damaging the UV rays in sunlight can be. Imagine what those rays are doing to the back of our eyeballs, our retinas? The eye’s designed to take sunlight and focus it like a magnifying glass into the back of our eyes. Thankfully we have a layer of cells in our eye called the retinal pigment epithelium that supports and protects our delicate retinal eyesight machinery. This layer builds up yellow plant pigments from our diet, like zeaxantin, which absorbs blue light and protects the retina from photo-oxidative damage. The yellowing of our corneas when we get cataracts may actually be our bodies’ defense mechanism to protect our retinas. In fact when we go and surgically remove those cataracts, our risk of blindness from macular degeneration shoots up since we’ve removed that protection. Instead of trading one type of vision loss for another, instead of pigmenting the front of our eye with cataracts, better to pigment the back of eyes with diet. The pigment in the back of our eye is entirely of dietary origin, thus suggesting that the most common cause of going blind in the Western world could be delayed or even averted with appropriate dietary modification. Where in our diet do we get it? Well, the egg industry brags that eggs are a good source, but have an egg nearly day, six eggs a week for three months, and the pigmentation in our eyes barely moves. And these were the high lutein, free range, certified organic eggs, not purchased at the supermarket, but from a local farm. Instead of getting phytonutrients from the egg that came from the chicken that came from the corn and blades of grass you pecked on, what about getting it from the source: a cup of corn and a half cup of spinach a day for three months? A dramatic boost in protective eye pigment. What’s also so neat about this study is that it went back and measured the levels three months after the study stopped, and the levels were still way up here. So once we build our macular pigment up with a healthy diet, our eyeballs really try to hold on to it. So even if we go on vacation and end up eating more iceberg lettuce than spinach, our eyes will hold out until we get back. Yes, eyes can increase zeaxantin levels in the blood, but they also raise bad cholesterol levels and risk of heart disease, therefore an egg yolk based dietary strategy to increase plasma zeaxantin cannot be recommended. An alternative, you know, a cholesterol-free food source is desirable, like goji berries for example, which have up to 60 times more zeaxantin than eggs. A modest dose markedly increases levels in our body. An inexpensive, effective, safe, whole foods strategy to increase the zeaxantin in our blood stream. But we don't need it in our blood. We need it in our eyes. So how about a double-blind randomized placebo-controlled trial? To preserve eyesight in the elderly in traditional Chinese medicine, people are often prescribed 40 to 100 goji berries a day. But here they just used 15 berries a day for three months. But still found it could protect against loss of pigment and prevent the buildup of what’s called soft drusen, which is just debris that builds up in the back of our eye, both of which are associated with age-related macular degeneration, the leading cause of legal blindness in older men and women, affecting more than 10 million Americans. Now note they gave the berries with milk in this study, so the butterfat could increase the absorption of the carotenoid pigments. A healthier way to get the same effect would be to just eat goji berries with nuts or seeds, in other words, Goji trail mix. In our next story, kale and collard greens play a starring role in the prevention of glaucoma. Glaucoma is the second leading cause of legal blindness in white women, but the #1 cause of blindness in African-American women. That's one reason researchers chose a population of African-American women to study the effects of fruit and vegetable consumption on glaucoma risk, but the other reason is because they were specifically interested in foods with the highest concentration of those eye-protecting phytonutrients like zeaxanthin-- kale and collard greens— — but you'd be lucky if you could find 1 in 10 white people eating even a single serving a month, whereas that was a no-brainer for African Americans. What'd they find? Well, as I've stressed over the years, all fruits and vegetables are not the same. Whether you ever ate bananas or had one or more bananas every day didn't seem to matter much, but eating a couple oranges every week was associated with dramatically lower risk. Not orange juice, though, you can drink orange juice every day and it didn't seem to matter. A similar finding with peaches. Fresh peaches seemed to work but canned peaches didn't. Similarly vegetables in general as a catch-all term For example, whether you ate a green salad twice a week, once a week or zero times a week didn't seem to matter when it came to reducing glaucoma risk– But you know how pitiful most people's salads are. White people, take note, as you may need it even more. The lighter our eye color, the more greens we need to eat. Blue eyes let 100 times more light through, so people with blue or gray eyes appear significantly more vulnerable to damage compared to brown or black, with green and hazel somewhere in the middle. It's interesting - carrots appeared to be less protective in black women compared to white women. They suggest it could be a difference in food preparation methods. Perhaps the African American subjects tended to eat carrots raw, limiting the absorption of certain nutrients, while they chopped and prepared their collard greens with oil making the nutrients more bioavailable, because the absorption of carotenoid phytonutrients depends on the presence of fat, which is why I encourage people to eat nuts or seeds with their greens—a little tahini sauce or something. Why not just take a zeaxanthin pill? Well, we don't know what exactly is in these wonderful foods that's working their wonders so it may be better to just recommend folks eat them, rather than supplements. And in fact, people that take calcium or iron supplements may be doubling, quadrupling, or septupling their odds of glaucoma. Better to just get most of our nutrients from produce, not pills. Finally today, we look at the best dietary treatments for eye strain. What happens to our eyesight if we sit in front of a computer all day? In previous years "the rapid spread of computers in the home and workplace has led to an increase in ocular and visual problems, including eye discomfort, blurring of distant objects, eye strain, and visual fatigue," so called nearwork-induced transient myopia. That's when, after staring at a computer screen for a while, you look out the window and things start out all blurry. That's because our poor little ciliary muscles pulling at the lenses in our eyes are locked in this constant state of contraction to keep that near focus. Over time this can have long-term adverse consequences. Yes, we could waste 4 to 12 minutes an hour taking breaks staring out the window, but what if you've got nutrition videos to make? The effects of black currant intake on video display terminal work-induced transient refractive alteration in healthy humans. A double-blind placebo-controlled crossover study finding a significant improvement in refractive values and eye strain symptoms compared to placebo. Note what passes for currants in the U.S. are actually champagne grape raisins, not actual black currants, which were banned in the U.S. a century ago at the behest of the lumber industry for fear that they might spread a plant disease that affects white pine, which we hardly even harvest any more. They are, however, currant-ly [cough] are making a comeback, though any anthocyanin-rich berry might have similar benefits. For example, there was a previous study done on bilberries. Why didn't I report on it when it came out? Because I can't read Japanese. Why not just take bilberry powder capsules? Because, as we've seen over and over, when you test supplements you're lucky if they have any of what it says on the label. Furthermore, for products actually containing bilberries at all, labeling was often uninformative, misleading or both, something the herbal supplement market is infamous for. The largest study to date found that it appears most herbal supplement labels lie. And who wouldn't want to eat this, rather than this? It's interesting — bilberries gained notoriety during World War II when it was said that pilots in the British Royal Air Force were eating bilberry jam to improve their night vision. Turns out this may have been a story concocted to fool the Germans. The real reason the Brits were able to all the sudden target Nazi bombers in the middle of the night before they even made it to the English Channel was likely not because of bilberries, but because of a top secret new invention they needed to keep quiet, called radar. We would love it if you could share with us your stories about reinventing your health through evidence-based nutrition. Go to nutritionfacts.org/testimonials. We may share it on our social media to help inspire others. To see any graphs, charts, graphics, images, or studies mentioned here, go to the NutritionFacts Podcast landing page. There you’ll find all the detailed information you need – plus, links to all of the sources we cite for each of these topics. My last two books are “How to Survive a Pandemic” and my “How Not to Diet Cookbook”. Get ready this year for the launch of How Not to Age. And, of course, all the proceeds I receive from the sales of all my books goes directly to charity. NutritionFacts.org is a nonprofit, science-based public service, where you can sign up for free daily updates on the latest in nutrition research with bite-sized videos and articles uploaded nearly every day. Everything on the website is free. There’s no ads, no corporate sponsorships, no kickbacks. It’s strictly non-commercial. I’m not selling anything. I just put it up as a public service, as a labor of love, as a tribute to my grandmother, whose own life was saved with evidence-based nutrition.