Have you ever wondered if there are more natural ways to lower your high blood pressure, guard against Alzheimer's, lose weight, feel better? Well, it turns out there is. Welcome to the Nutrition Facts podcast. I'm your host, Dr. Michael Greger. Today, we take a deep dive into the best way to choose the safest and most effective sunscreen. considered the single most important practice for maintaining youthful skin. The daily application of sunscreen and taking other protective measures like wearing a hat. All the other things you can do for your skin pale in comparison, especially for those with pale skin. Up to 90% of visible facial aging among people with lighter skin tones is due to exposure to sunlight. Those with darker skin are relatively protected due to their built-in melanin sunscreen, but they're still affected. Sun damage in darker skin tends to be less about wrinkles and more about pigmentation issues such as uneven skin tones, dark patches, and small dark bumps on the face. Either way, dermatologists now agree that there's nothing more important to slow the signs of aging than to protect your skin from the sun. Pats like sun exposure and smoking can make us look up to 11 years older. And compare that to extensive cosmetic surgery. A faceelift and a neck lift and removing excess skin from both upper and lower eyelids and a forehead lift which combined can make us look about 8 years younger. So a healthy lifestyle may work even better. Protecting your skin from the sun should be a lifelong endeavor. This can involve applying sunscreen, wearing sunprotective clothing, hats, and sunglasses, and avoiding direct sunlight during the peak hours of 10:00 a.m. to 4 p.m., and instead seeking shady covered areas. Sunbathing is frowned upon, even with sunscreens like zinc oxide or titanium dioxide that offer broadspectctrum protection against both UVA, UVB rays. We now know that other wavelengths such as near infrared that are not covered by sunscreens also contribute to skin aging. Men and women who use tanning beds appear significantly older than those who don't. And white women who some bathe appear years older than they actually are, similar to what is seen with smoking. UVA rays are primarily responsible for skin aging, whereas UVB are the rays that cause sunburn, but a broadspectctrum sunscreen covering both is recommended since both types of UV contribute to cancer risk. To prevent skin cancer, the American Academy of Dermatology recommends sunscreen with an SPF of 30 or higher. But an SPF even as low as 15 can help prevent skin aging. How do we know? Because it's been put to the test. Despite the widespread belief that the use of sunscreen would prevent skin aging, all we had was data on hairless mice. That is until 10 years ago. 900 adults were randomized either to years of daily sunscreen use or to continue with their own discretionary use. It was considered unethical to withhold protection by giving people placebo sunscreen. In the end, 77% in the recommended daily sunscreen group were applying sunscreen at least 3 to 4 days per week compared with only 33% in the discretionary use group. Would that be enough of a difference to make a difference? Yes. There was significantly less skin aging in the instructed daily use group. In fact, they suffered no detectable increase in skin aging over the four and a half year study. The researchers concluded regular sunscreen use retards skin aging in healthy middle-aged men and women. Okay, so to reiterate, there's nothing more important to slow the signs of aging than to protect your skin from the sun. This involves avoiding direct sunlight since there are skin aging wavelengths not covered by sunscreens and wearing a daily SPF 30 plus sunscreen proven to slow aging in a randomized control trial. Okay, but what if you care less about how you look and more about avoiding cancer? Has sunscreen been similarly proven to prevent skin cancer? Let's find out in my next video. Does sunscreen really prevent skin cancer? Let's find out. Decades ago, studies started bubbling up reporting that not only was the use of sunscreen not found to be protective against skin cancer, but it was associated with significantly elevated risk. But subsequent studies offered the obvious explanation of this paradox. People who use sunscreen are more likely to be sunbathers. That's like finding those who use motorcycle helmets are more likely to die on the highway. I mean, it's not that sunscreen and helmets aren't protective. It's just that they're associated with engagement in risky activities, but you don't know until you put it to the test. Randomized control trials have shown that regular use of sunscreen can arrest visible signs of skin aging, including biopsy proven reductions in UV related skin damage. But are there interventional trials proving sunscreen can prevent cancer? Yes. Organ transplant recipients are highly susceptible to skin cancers because they have to be given immune suppressants to prevent organ rejection. A group of 120 organ recipients were equally informed about sun protection measures, but half were given free broadspectctrum SPF 50 plus sunscreen for daily application to their head, neck, forearms, and hands. After 2 years, there were nine new basil carcinomomas in the control group versus only two in the sunscreen group. That sounds good, but may have just been a fluke. In contrast, there was a highly significant difference in the proportion of patients who got new invasive squamic cell carcinoma. Eight new cases in the control group versus zero in the sunscreen group. But wait until you hear about what happened to their actctinic keratossis, the precancerous growths that can turn into skin cancer. They all started out covered in them. A total of 191 detected in each group. In the subsequent 24 months, the control group developed 82 new ones. How many did the sunscreen group develop? Negative 102. More than 100 precancerous growths in the sunscreen group spontaneously regressed and vanished completely compared to 82 new growths developing in the control group without a single one disappearing. Their bodies, even in their immuno compromised state, could heal itself once it just stopped being bombarded with so many cancer-causing rays. Other randomized control trials have shown similar findings, but generalizability is limited. The studies all use high-risk populations, for example, those living in subtropical climates or with a personal history of precancerous lesions. So cancer prevention efficacy in the general population be expected to be less. On the other hand, the studies could also have underestimated the impact since they were relatively shortterm, not exceeding four years, and ethically had to allow the control group participants to slather on their own sunscreen, which would dilute the difference between groups. For maximum effectiveness, sunscreen needs to be applied properly, which apparently rarely happens in the real world. In a study of nearly 5,000 skiers and snowboarders, almost no one, only about 4% were fully compliant with sunscreen recommendations. First, there's the amount. The FDA standard is 2 milligs per square cimeter. What does that mean? Use the teaspoon rule. One teaspoon for your face, head, and neck. One for the front of your torso, another for your back, one teaspoon for each arm, and two teaspoons for each leg. That's a total of 9 teaspoon. It's about the total volume equivalent of a golf ball or or a shot glass to help you visualize it. Unfortunately, the average sunscreen user may only apply a quarter of the recommended amount. This is why high SPF sunscreens are often recommended, like, you know, 50 plus SPF. Although the FDA recommends a minimum SPF of only 15 to prevent skin cancer, under normal consumer conditions, even an SPF of 50 may effectively give you only an SPF of 12.5 because most people don't put on enough. Randomized double blind head-to-head split face experiments where you're randomized to apply one sunscreen to one side of your face and another sunscreen to the other side show that in real life use SPF 100 plus sunscreen work significantly better than SPF 50 plus sunscreen. More than 50% of the participants were sunburned more on their SPF 50 plus side compared to only 5% on their SPF 100 plus side. Now, a potential downside of higher SPF sunscreens is that they could provide a false sense of security. Those randomized to an SPF 30 sunscreen ended up spending more cumulative time in the sun than those receiving an SPF 10 sunscreen as much as five times longer in some case. What else? Well, people tend to remember to use sunscreen on a sunny day at the beach, but sun protection is needed even on cloudy days since the UV rays are not dampened as much as visible light. There's even a phenomenon known as cloud enhancement, where overcast skies can sometimes result in even more UV reaching the Earth's surface compared to clear skies. Sunscreen labels often suggest waiting at least 15 minutes after application before going outdoors. But when put to the test, sunscreen was found to start working immediately with the full effect apparent by minute 10. However, if water resistance is required, it may be prudent to wait the full 15 to 30 minutes after application before taking a dip. The terms waterproof or sweatproof appear to be meaningless marketing as no difference in retention was noted between quoteunquote waterproof products and those that were merely labeled waterresistant. Both were better than nonwater resistant products though, which lost nearly all their protective effects within 20 minutes of water immersion. The suggestion that sunscreen should be reapplied every 2 to three hours only applies under conditions in which it is rinsed off by water or sweat or rubbed off by friction from clothing or sand. Even after allowing sunscreen to dry first for 20 minutes, between 15 and 60% of its protective effect can be lost after contact with sand. Otherwise, if the recommended amount is applied and the sunscreen layer is not disturbed, SPF can be maintained for as long as 8 hours. What kind of sunscreen should you use? Creambased is preferable to spray on since the completeness of application is more readily visualized. To help with adequate coverage, spray-on sunscreen should be rubbed on immediately after spraying. Aerosolized sunscreens are flammable and can combust on skin upon exposure to an open flame, even after the sunscreen has dried. What's more, the safety of breathing in aerosolized sunscreen chemicals has not been adequately studied. Though frankly, the same thing could be said about rubbing them on your skin. The concerns surrounding sunscreen safety are three-fold. Increased intentional sun exposure, vitamin D deficiency, and untored effects from systemic absorption of sunscreen chemicals. In the 1800s, we first learned that UVB caused sunburns and formulated sunscreens to block it. Nearly a century later, we learned about the contribution of UVA. Now a full century later, we are realizing that infrared and visible light may also be contributing to cancer and premature skin aging. Sunlight comes to us in three major bands. Visible light, ultraviolet, and infrared. Visible light includes the colors of the rainbow. Red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet or roy g biv. Ultraviolet UV is to the right of violet in Roy Giv and infrared to the left of red. Sunscreen can protect us against the free radical damage of UV, but half of the free radical formation in our skin from the sun may be from the visible or infrared spectrums which sunscreens may not adequately cover. So that's where sun avoidance strategies come in. But you can imagine how shade seeking could be undermined by the salacement of a sunscreen security blanket. What about vitamin D? The theoretical concern about sunscreen affecting vitamin D status does not seem to manifest in the real world, likely because the UV dose necessary for vitamin D production is so low well before skin turns a pinker shade. However, concerns about the systemic absorption of sunscreen chemicals were underscored by the recent FDA bombshell that not a single one of sunscreen chemicals in current use can be considered generally recognized as safe. Only two active ingredients got the green light. The two non-chemical mineral sunscreens, titanium dioxide and zinc oxide. The revelation was based on a growing body of evidence that transermal, meaning through the skin absorption of sunscreen chemicals was greater than we previously thought, raising unevaluated safety concerns. Unevaluated because we previously didn't think so much got into our bloodstreams. In 2019, a study published in the Journal of the American Medical Association found that under maximum usage conditions over a period of days, the blood levels of all the sunscreen chemicals they tested exceeded the FDA threshold that could potentially wave further safety testing. Then in 2020, they found that just a single application of all the chemical sunscreens they tested surpassed the threshold. Now, just because they're absorbed into our system doesn't necessarily mean they're unsafe. It just means they need to be tested for safety, which the FDA determined the multibillion dollar sunscreen industry has so far failed to do. The FDA concluded that two ingredients can be considered safe, zinc oxide and titanium dioxide, and two can be considered unsafe, PABA and trollamine salicellate. And the other 12 ingredients that are currently marketed have yet to be sufficiently safety tested. According to a review of more than 700 sunscreen brands, it appears PABA and Trolamine are no longer being marketed in sunscreens sold in the United States. Uh, but they still may be available in other countries. Until the data are in on the rest of the chemical sunscreens, I would recommend sticking to the two mineral sunscreens. Historically, they've tended to be thicker and wider, which can lead to even more severe underdosing, but newer micronized formulations with smaller mineral particle sizes tend to be less noticeable. This is particularly an issue for those with darker skin. The average built-in SPF of black skin, also known in the medical literature as quote unquote ethnic skin or SOC, skin of color, is about 13 naturally compared with only about three for white skin. Though there haven't been any interventional studies on sunscreen effectiveness for skin cancer prevention in people with dark skin, SPF 13 is not considered sufficient sun protection. So, the American Academy of Dermatology recommends regular sunscreen use with an SPF of 30 or higher for people of all skin types. Unfortunately, only about 12% of non-Hispanic blacks and 31% of Hispanics report regularly using sunscreen compared to about 44% of non-Hispanic whites. Uh, despite this, the incidence of melanoma, the deadliest skin cancer, is five times lower in Hispanics compared to whites and more than 25 times lower among blacks. However, the mortality rate if you do get it is higher among African-Americans presumed to be due from delayed diagnosis. Okay. So, in short, only two sunscreen active ingredients can be considered safe at this time. And that's the two so-called mineral sunscreens, titanium dioxide and zinc oxide. Um though remember in the first part of the video talking about how that may really only cover UV um the the ultraviolet range um and so sun avoidance is still important um since maybe half the free radicals created by uh sun exposure are from the nonovered spectrum. So avoidance um in addition to using good sunscreens is still important. Um, absolutely outrageous that that safety testing wasn't done by industry. Um, but now they're going to be forced to. Um, and it's about time. All right. Uh, Q&amp;A time. Happy to talk about anything that came up today or any related topics of uh, skin aging in general. Got a whole chapter on it in uh, how not to age. Um, and so we could bring up the the the the pre-release sneak preview and go through anything you'd like. Okay, let's do this. Okay, let me pull up the questions. Sunscreen questions. All right. What ingredients are the safest for lip products containing optimal sunscreen? So glad you answered. You can actually get melanoma of the lip. Uh deadly skin cancer of the lip just like you can get skin cancer anywhere. Um and so the safest would be the same thing. titanium dioxide, zinc oxide, the two mineral sunscreens for lip products as well. I'm so glad you asked that question. People may not um think of that. Um okay. When returning indoors after sunscreen skin application, is showering recommended to prevent possible adverse issue uh issues from sunscreen, chemical skin absorption? What duration is safest to have sunscreen on the screen before on the skin before washing it off? And the answer to that question is do not wear chemical sunscreens because we cannot presume them to be safe. Now, if you do have a chemical sunscreen, would it be better to wash it off? That's a good question. Like, I don't know how long it takes for that. I'd have to go back to that study to see um how long after application does it get absorbed. Remember that study showed just a single application could exceed um the levels that uh exceed the the threshold levels um from the FDA in terms of uh uh needing to require toxicity testing. So it gets into your bloodstream. Uh how what are the kinetics of it? Like is it like within the first hour or does it take like eight hours or something? Um and can you just wash it up? That's a good question. But uh uh so that's kind of a good kind of just kind of curiosity question, but the answer, the true answer is just don't use those chemical sunscreens until we know they're safe. Period. Okay, next up, any contraindications? Oh, that's a fancy doctor word. Um for I'm sorry I can't uh give props to the questioners because I just when the team pulls them together, they don't tell me who asked it. They just give me the show me the questions. But thank you for everyone who who put in questions. Anyway, um any contra indications meaning um any uh uh you know uh circumstances in which you would not want to um so any circumstances in which you would not want to apply moisturizer, insect repellence and or witch hazel whilst applying sunscreen and is there any preferred order of application? Um well uh I mean sunscreen the cream sunscreens actually have a moisturizer base so presumably you wouldn't have to add moisturizer on top of moisturizer but in terms of insect repellent and all that stuff. Um uh trying to think uh yeah I mean I can't imagine it's not like it's going to I guess if you added a whole bunch of witch haves and it was really sloppy you could kind of rinse off some of the sunscreen but that probably wouldn't happen. Probably just rub it around good. So, uh, yeah, I I don't think it should matter, um, in terms of order of application. Okay, next question. Is clothing marketed with inherent sunscreen absorbed? Is that absorbed when you sweat? Um, is this UPF clothing effective? And if so, is it effective enough to forgo topical sunscreen while wearing the clothing? Okay, great question. Now, most like UPF, most sun protective clothing is not actually embedded with anything. It's just the natural blocking, physical blocking. So, like every piece of clothing, unless it's like some super super sheer sheer sheer, you know, lingerie or something, every clothing has some kind of blocking abilities. Um, but and you can tell whether it's blocking abilities or not by you take the clothing, you take your shirt and you look up at the sun and if you're like, well, try not to look up at the sun, but you know what I mean. Like if if light shines through, well, then it's not very good. But uh so usually the sun protective clothing is just a a denser weave or a thicker material and so you put it up and you're like, "Oh, you can't see the sun." Well, if you can't see the sun through the clothing, it's it blocks the sun. Um so now is there some clothing that actually has some embedded chemical? If there is, I don't think you should wear it because then you just be then you'd be worried about the chemical safety once again. Um, and so the question is, well, can do you need to worry about like you need to put sunscreen underneath your clothing? Um, it depends on what uh how uh effective it is. So for anti-aging, you need um SPF, not UPF, I don't know where UPF came from the question here, but no, SPF 15 for anti-aging, SPF 30 is the recommendations for um preventing cancer. And so if this the the clothing is rated as SPF, you know, 10, well then, you know, if you're going to get a lot of direct sunlight, you want to put some uh uh sunblock um on underneath it. Okay. Next. I've heard some doctors, including dermatologists, say that most damage from skin ex most skin damage from sun exposure is done before age 12. Is that true? Um well I mean if you think about that randomized control trial where they you know had people put more sunscreen or less sunscreen um these were people you know I forget the ages but middleage um and so late in life they had this amazing protection that they didn't show any signs of skin aging um after daily application of sunscreen over a four and a half year study significantly better than the group that only did it a few times a week. Um so showing that you can prevent aging at any time. Um uh and uh the uh I mean the I mean when you're a kid you have this remarkable capacity to to to heal. Um but in ter I think what you may be thinking of is in terms of skin cancer risk. So if you had a lot of sunburns when you were a kid, you are at elevated risk even if the rest of your life you are in a burka. Um and that is um because these so-called epithelial cancers these cancers that like linings of organs whether it's breast glands or colon or prostate or or skin or liver um have uh uh it can take decades to grow. So you know the breast cancer you get at age you know 50 could have been from you know some kind of teenage exposure. Um and uh so so the there so it just it's even more important if you got a lot of sunburns when you were a kid. Nothing you do about it now. You can prevent your own kids from getting sunburn in the first place. That's very important. Um but you just have to be more careful to protect your skin from the sun. And again, there's that really hope hopeful study showing that your body can actually reverse some of the um progression towards cancer just by protecting your skin from the sun, just from the UV rays, not even from the sun completely. Okay, next question. Are kids sunscreen products and sunscreen needs any different? Does using brands of sunscreen labeled for babies mean that they are safer? Um, it's all about the active ingredients, right? We want the mineral sunscreens regardless. Um, I don't know if there's if I mean maybe the baby sunscreens are higher SPF, but as long as long as the SPF is there. Um, and you're using the right ingredients, then that's the most important thing. Um, and again, one could argue it's even more important for kids because that lifetime skin cancer risk. That would be the only difference. Okay. I take aanthin, four milligrams a day, um, which is this corotenoid pigment to help me tan naturally. Um any thoughts on this? Um I have not looked into aazanthin in terms of safety. Um but there is another coronoid called cancer zanthin. Um which uh uh causes something called gold dust retinopathy. Um you can actually see it uh u in the back of your eyeball. Um uh but I have not looked into this. So that is a supplement I would not recommend taking. um but have not looked into the safety as anything. Okay. What the next question? What is the difference between face sunscreen and body sunscreens? Is this just marketing or is an actual product difference? I think it's just marketing. Um again, what matters is the ingredients and uh you know how potent the the protection is um the SPF rating. Um okay, next. What is a healthy amount of sun exposure before needing sunscreen? How much sun exposure per day or month is safe to avoid any cancer? Ideally, none. I mean, we should be going we should be putting sunscreen um on in the morning before we go outside and have it on all day. Yeah. I mean, we really should uh um try to avoid direct sun exposure when we can. And I said, wait a second, what about vitamin D? Your body's super good making vitamin D even if you wear sunscreen. Okay. I mentioned that near next question. I mentioned near infrared affecting skin. Can I comment on far infrared as in far infrared saunas? Ah that's a great question. Um you know I have I've listed to look into saunas. I did one video on saunas, but it's like, you know, steam saunas, uh, on in terms of detoxification from heavy metals like lead, which is really interesting. Um, so that's already on the site, but I haven't looked at at infrared saunas. Another thing I haven't looked at is like the cold plunge stuff. There's all these people saying there's all this data suggesting that like exposure to cold, cryotherapy, blah blah blah, is helpful. Maybe, I don't know. I gotta check out the literature. Nothing something else on my list. Okay. Uh, so my answer to that question is I don't know. Great question. Next question. Can you develop a skin a greater tolerance for skin exposure without damage to your skin? Well, you can certainly develop a greater tolerance. Um, you can tan. Um, and that's your body trying to protect itself from the rays and so you you're less likely to get sunburned. Um, but that's you're you're damaging your skin on on route. So, um, uh, I mean, yeah. So, uh, that's not the way to do it. Um, okay. Next. If I already had skin cancer, am I more susceptible going forh forward on that spot? You absolutely are more susceptible going forward. Not necessarily on that spot. In fact, there shouldn't be a spot anymore. They should have cut it out presumably. Um but definitely in fact you're the the you're there are randomized control trials showing that people in exactly your situation can significantly cut down on your risk of subsequent cancer by using uh daily sunscreen um uh because you're so susceptible. Um the reason that they choose high-risisk populations to study is because then you don't have to do as long a study and as large of a study, right? I mean because you want to have lots of skin cancer in both groups so you can see if there's actually a difference um in with whatever you do. Um so uh you definitely are at higher risk. So it's particularly important for you to take um uh to take care. Okay, next question. Are there particular herbs ah that you can recommend for being anti-kin cancer and their properties? I've heard that green tea has such properties. Oh well I have got I wonder if the video is up. So, I've got a couple videos talking about basically things you can eat to get sunscreen from the inside out. Um, uh, it's a cool like there was a cool video talking about how if you have a like how berries like eating berries before you go outside significantly extends the time before you get sunburned because the antioxidants get deposited in your skin and protect against free radicals. Um, whereas something like alcohol is a prooxidant eats up your free radicals. So I talk about how so they did like strawberry daiquiri kind of study. Oh no, they did uh screwdriver studies like orange juice versus orange juice with vodka and showed how much quicker you sunburn after eating vodka versus um various uh um fruits and vegetables. So check out that video. And I know in the book I actually talk about different foods um that can offer that uh kind of uh skin protection from the inside out. nice thing about that, it kind of boosting the natural SPF of your skin by eating healthy foods. And I forget if green tea it was among them. I know it's certainly been tested. I forget which way it went. Um, uh, the nice thing is it's there all the time and in all the hard-to-reach places and so you have to think about putting it on. At the same time, the SPF is relatively low. And so, it's you still have to wear some sunblock, but it it's kind of a complimentary strategy. So, it's there all the time and everywhere, but not enough to offer ideal protection. So, you add the sunblock on top. Anyway, uh this person has some rough spots on their face that were turned precancerous, but after seeing terrifying videos on of people having skin that looked like thirdderee burns, I did not use it. So, what are the pros and cons of chemo cream? I have no idea. I've never even heard about it, but definitely something to look into. Um, uh, you know, there's no such thing as safe and effective. If it's effective, then there's some risk. The question is, do the benefits outweigh the harms? And that you have to figure out on a drugby-drug basis. All right. Are there countries manufacturing better or more modern sunscreen formulations than the USA where we can purchase from? Well, you don't need to go anywhere outside the USA cuz you can get the mineral sunscreens right here. Um, and so you don't need to worry about it, right? Um, so yeah, those are safe. Do natural oils, avocado, peach, grape seed providing protection against UVA reads, UVA rays, as I've seen products that say do. Well, if the product says it does something, yeah, you can never trust anything. Now, it's possible that something like grapeseed oil has some antioxidants that actually may um offer some protection, but I would highly doubt it. I would not rely on on on oils to protect against UV rays. Okay. Is it okay to only use water without soap to wash our hands after putting on sunscreen? We don't want to get sunscreen on our food. So, if your uh uh sunscreen is not water resistant, it'll wash right off just with water, even without soap. Um, and so you wouldn't want to do that. And if you don't want to get sunscreen on your food, you don't have to eat with your hands. That would be probably the the way to go. Don't eat with your hands. Okay. What do you think of the Sperty UVB phototherapy lamp? Vitamin D lamps that allows people to make vitamin D without going in the sun. Um, well, I mean, if it's turning out UV rays, then presumably we're going to run into the same problems. So, yeah, I I'm presuming that's not good for skin aging or skin cancer risk. And again, you can get all the vitamin D you need from sun, even when you're protecting yourself from sun. Now, if you don't go outside, then you're not going to get enough vitamin D, right? I mean, they like your roof is SPF like a million, whatever, right? you um uh you don't get exposed inside. Um and so if you're like you know institutionalized uh like you know they do these studies of of the elderly in nursing homes they where they never get outside they can you can get really vitamin D deficient in which case um you don't need a a UV lamp to you just need to give them vitamin D supplements. I I would recommend 2,000 uh international units of vitamin D3 a day uh for someone getting inadequate sun exposure. Um and uh I am very much an institutionalized elder in terms of my vitamin D levels. Um and that is because I am inside all day reading articles so you don't have to. Um and really don't get out much. That'll change when I'm on the road coming next year for the new book. But uh yeah, so I I'm actually taking um vitamin D every day because I get inadequate sun exposure. The next question, what are my vitamin D recommendations? There you go. Okay. Is there a sunscreen that does not have metals in it? Oh, there's tons of sunscreen, but we don't know if they're safe, right? These chemical sunscreens that don't have titanium or zinc. Um but we don't know if they're safe because they're absorbed into the skin. And we know there are a couple that were definitely not safe. Um, and so there's lots of sunscreens without metals, but until we know they're safe, I would not use them. Next question. What sunscreen options are available if your skin's very sensitive, even a mineral sunscreens? Um, so when you say sensitive, usually sensitive skin, usually what you do with sensitive skin is you moisturize your skin and presumably sunscreens would be moisturizers. Now, can people actually develop like a titanium or zinc allergy? That's a good question. I've never heard of such a thing, but you can. I've certainly heard of nickel allergy. Some people can't handle things with the metal nickel in it and actually run into real problems. So, I don't know if that would be the same skin. Very. So, I'm not sure what you mean by very sensitive, like you break out in a rash. If so, I'm presuming it's not actually the zinc of the titanium, but it's like some all the other ingredients that they throw in. And so you may want to try different ones to find one that doesn't make you break out or whatever you're describing as being sensitive. Next, do sunglasses without tint work the same? What about UV blocking? Sunglasses without a tint work the same? We didn't actually cover the damage that the sun can do to probably the most sensitive tissue at all, the back of your eye. Imagine, okay, yeah, your sun is getting toasted, your skin's getting toasted, but you actually have a magnifying glass in your lenses, your eye, which are focusing the sun's rays right to the back of your eye. And so, actually, cataracts are thought to be um your body's way to protect your retina, the yellowing of your cornea, the outer uh part of your eye, is to block some of those high energy blue, that high energy blue light that is damaging your retina. And when people get cataract surgery, they actually can accelerate their retinal degeneration because all of a sudden they have more free radical damage in the back of their eye. So what do you do? You protect yourself. Um, you know, there's all sorts of polarized sunglasses which significantly cut down on light. And you'd want them, you know, not the little fashionable ones where light can get in from all sides, but you want ones that really do um cover your, you know, uh, cover your eyes. What's the latest research on the possible link between sunscreen and frontal fibrosin alopecia? I have never heard of any such link. Um, I can pop in into PubMed real quick just to see if anything pops up. Okay, sunscreen. That is not something I ran into. Well, there there are three dozen articles. Let us look at the latest systematic review and meta analysis. That's the quicky way if you just had like really a very little amount of time to answer some research question. You look at the latest systematic review meta analysis. Is that perfect? By no means. But um it's you know if you have limited time this is what you can do. We have limited time. So let's do this. And what does it say? So yeah the the use of sunscreen is associated with a higher risk of developing um frontal fibrosine alipes. Although the exact mechanism is not clear um they think it's uh maybe be because of oxyenzone which is one of these chemicals in chemical sunscreens um uh that may be uh kind of irritating the skin. So this may be limited to chemical sunscreens although they didn't look at it specifically but good question. So this was a 2022 systematic review in the journal of American Academy of Dermatology suggesting that uh yeah um and so uh um perhaps that's another reason to stay away from chemical sunscreens. Uh okay. Well, let's go back to our questions here. Um but thank you for that question. I I I that's not something I ran across when I was doing because mo most I was looking at it for aging. Um but of course the cancer naturally popped up with that. Okay. Um, why does squeemis cancer meaning squee cell carcinoma show up on legs or covered areas more than other areas? I wonder if you're talking about melanoma. So melanoma you can get in all sorts of crazy areas. So there are some skin cancers uh you know like basil cell that show up where you'd expect them to show up like you know top of the head or on the nose or you know where they just get a lot of sun exposure. other skin cancers that can appear weird kind of places even like you know toenails and crazy things like that and uh may have less to do um with uh with the UV ray exposure. Um why does that have that distribution? I don't think we know. That's a good question. Is one application in the morning sufficient for all day protection? Um so um the uh that study where as long as you are not rubbing it off or wiping it off or it's not you're not sweating so much that you're kind of dripping it off, rinsing it off with sweat um eight hours. It should last eight hours. So yeah, application in the morning um should be sufficient unless you know you're rolling around this the sand or something and and it's rubbing it off. Okay. Could I please address the effect of sunscreen chemicals on coral reefs and ocean life? Fantastic question. uh is not my in my wheelhouse. So I I do not know um what the effect of sunscreen chemicals on coral leaf and ocean life is. Um uh yeah, sorry. Um any foods? Oh, any foods that can help slow skin aging? You got it. I got a whole chapter on it. I have a whole anti-rinkle diet section. Um let me uh Oh, yeah. Let's let's let's let's share it. Let's do it. Here we go. anti-rinkle diet. Is there any way to reduce them? Don't eat a lot of meat and junk. Eat a lot of fruit, vegetables, nuts. Okay, these are associations. So, if you go to c.nfrinkle, um there's a video how to naturally reduce wrinkles with food, which uh um on nutritionfacts.org right now. Um and so there's that video. And then there's been interventional data on almonds, flax, seeds, soy, and mangoes. And do they actually work when put to the test? Yes, yes, yes, and no. So, yes to almonds, yes to flax, yes to soy, no to mangoes. I love mangoes. Too bad. Um, so thank you so much everybody. Um, I hope you learned a ton. I certainly learned a ton as I always do when I put together this information. And so, um, and I'm all excited to share it and now I finally been able to. And then uh eventually we'll share it with the world once all those videos eventually make it out on nutritionfacts.org. Visit nutritionfacts.org/audio to see all the podcast episodes with descriptions that include links to their associated videos. Sources cited and other details are available on each video's page. Information about my books, How Not to Die, How Not to Diet, How Not to Age is at nutritionfacts.org/books. All proceeds from book sales go to charity and sign up for our free newsletter at nutritionfacts.org/subscribe to stay updated on the latest byite-size videos and articles. Nutritionfacts.org is a science-based nonprofit and everything on the website is free. There are no ads, no corporate sponsorships, no kickbacks, strictly non-commercial, not selling anything. just put it up as a public service, as a labor of love, as a tribute to my grandmother whose own life was saved with evidence-based nutrition. Thanks for listening.