It’s crazy when you think about all of the different kinds of foods we eat. We just swallow and hope it all works out for the best. Well, as it turns out, there are better ways to think about keeping our bodies humming healthfully along. Welcome to the Nutrition Facts Podcast, I’m your host, Dr. Michael Greger. Today, we look at the health effects of food additives. And in our first story, NutritionFacts Senior Research Scientist Dr. Kristine Dennis asks ‘Do the reactions ascribed to monosodium glutamate (MSG) represent a menace, myth, or marvel?’ Reducing sodium intake by 30 percent could save the lives of more than 40 million people. And guess what can reduce sodium intake by more than 30 percent in standard recipes? Substituting traditional salt with monosodium glutamate, commonly known as MSG. But what about "Chinese Restaurant Syndrome," reported in a 1968 letter to the New England Journal of Medicine, characterized by numbness on the back of the neck, general weakness, and palpitation? One of the proposed causes was MSG, a common seasoning often used in Chinese cooking. Since then, MSG has been blamed for causing numerous adverse reactions, including asthma, headache, and neuropsychiatric disorders. But is this so-called monosodium glutamate "allergy" a menace or a myth? You don't know until you put it to the test, or in this case, many tests. In a multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multiple-challenge trial of MSG, 130 self-reported MSG-reactive volunteers first consumed beverages containing 5 grams of MSG or a placebo, and those who reported two or more of 10 different symptoms, such as flushing or headache, were then rechallenged in a dose-response study. Of the 19 people who consistently responded to 5 grams of MSG mixed in a drink, once MSG was given in a capsule (therefore ensuring people couldn't actually taste the MSG, which they could when it was mixed in a drink), only two people had reactions. The researchers noted that large doses of MSG without food may result in more symptoms, but no persistent or serious effects were observed. For context, estimated MSG intakes in the UK are about 0.58 grams per day, and in Asian countries, such as China, Korea, and Vietnam, where it is a more commonly used seasoning, it ranges from 0.33 grams per day to 3.8 grams per day, which is generally much less than the massive 5g or greater single doses provided in the challenge trials. Yet, only 2 out of 130 people who claimed to be sensitive to MSG had any more symptoms than when they just took a placebo. Given the controversy, consensus meetings with scientific experts convened in 1997 and again in 2007, and concluded that MSG was harmless, and no dietary intake limits needed to be set. But, in 2017, the European Food Safety Authority reevaluated the safety of glutamate as a food additive, and decided to set a limit of 30 mg per kilogram of body weight per day, which is exceeded by most people every day. This limit was based off a rat study from 1979, with EFSA citing potential neurodevelopmental toxicity concerns. But even the author of the original study says they failed to convincingly show such an effect. And given MSG's salt-reducing benefits, might it be a-okay as a much-needed tool to reduce sodium in foods? Now, MSG still has sodium; it's monosodium glutamate, after all; with about one third the sodium of typical table salt. So, a better salt substitute would be potassium salt, potassium chloride, which has the potential to save even more lives. Did you know the consumption of phosphorus preservatives in junk food, and injected into meat, may damage blood vessels, accelerate the aging process, and contribute to osteoporosis? In my video "Treating Kidney Failure through Diet", I profiled research suggesting that the use of plant-based diet may be helpful for the patients with kidney failure, because control of dietary phosphorus intake is the lynchpin in the successful control of a leading cause of disease and death in kidney failure patients, too much phosphorous in the blood. But now we're beginning to realize that absorbing too much phosphorus isn't good for anyone. Having high levels in our blood has been found to be an independent predictor of heart attacks and mortality in the general population, increasing the risk of not only kidney failure, but heart failure, heart attacks, coronary death, and overall death. Higher phosphate levels associated with a significantly shorter lifespan. Dietary intake of phosphate is an important matter not just for persons with kidney disease, but for everybody. It's thought to cause damage to blood vessels and accelerate the aging process, even potentially hurting our bones, contributing to osteoporosis by disrupting hormonal regulation. The estimated average requirement of phosphorus is less than 600 a day, but the estimated average intake is nearly twice that in the United States. How do we stay away from the stuff? If you look at nutrient tables, it looks like many plant foods have as much phosphorous as many animal foods, So why are plant-based diets so effective in treating kidney failure patients? Because most of the phosphorus in plant foods is found in the form of phytic acid, which we don't digest, so the bioavailability of plant phosphates is usually less than 50%. See, only a third to a half of plant phosphorus may be absorbable, whereas most animal products are all up around 75%. So when you adjust for how much actually gets into our system you see plant foods are better. It's like the absorption of heme and non-heme iron, our body can protect itself from absorbing too much plant-based iron, but can't stop excess blood-based, or heme iron from animals slipping through the intestinal wall. The worst kind of phosphorus, absorbed nearly 100%, are phosphate additives added, for example, to cola drinks. Why would they do that? Otherwise cola drinks would be black. Without the added phosphate, there would be so many glycotoxins produced that the beverage would turn pitch black. Thus, cola drinks owe their brown color to phosphate. Phosphate additives play an especially important role in the meat industry, where they are used as preservatives, for the same reason – to enhance a meat products color. Just like the dairy industry adds aluminum to cheese, meat and poultry is "enhanced" by injecting it with phosphates. If you look at meat industry trade journals and can get past all the macabre ads for head dropping robots for the kill floor and foot chopper-offers, you'll see all these ads for injection machines. Why? Because of increased profitability. Enhanced meats have better color and less purge. Purge is a term used to describe the liquid that seeps from flesh as it ages. Many consumers find this unattractive and so the industry views it as a win-win. When you inject chicken with phosphates the consumer benefits through the perception of enhanced quality, and the processor benefits from increased yield because they just pumped it up with water and they sell it by the pound. The problem is that it can boost phosphorus levels in meat nearly 70%, a real and insidious danger for kidney patients, but now we know it's a danger for all. Visit nutritionfacts.org/audio to see all of the podcast episodes with descriptions that include links to their associated videos. Sources cited and other details are available on each video's page. Information about my books— How Not to Die, How Not to Diet, and How Not to Age— is at nutritionfacts.org/books. As always, all proceeds from book sales go to charity. And sign up for our free newsletter at nutritionfacts.org/subscribe to stay updated on the latest bite-sized videos and articles. NutritionFacts.org is a science-based non-profit, and everything on the website is free. There are no ads, no corporate sponsorships, no kickbacks. Strictly non-commercial, not selling anything. I just put up as a public service, as a labor of love, as a tribute to my grandmother whose own life was saved with evidence-based nutrition. Thanks for listening.