"Tackling the Root Cause of Obesity Without Drugs Like ozempic" Introducing a temporary weight-loss fix using GLP-1 drugs like ozempic, without consideration of their wider implications and a long-term plan, has been likened to sprinkling water on a raging blaze. The war against obesity cannot be won without measures to prevent obesity in the first place. That means tackling the food environment, which is based on high-calorie, fatty, salty, sugary junk, rather than relying on medication as a "damage limitation exercise." Yeah, but limiting damage is a good thing. Sure, these drugs may not make much of a dent on a population scale, but what about on an individual basis? It’d be great if people ate healthfully enough to prevent and treat heart disease, high blood pressure, and diabetes too, but until that happens, drugs for those conditions can literally be life saving. Obesity so dramatically decreases one’s lifespan-- reducing life expectancy as much as a decade-- that these GLP-1 drugs-- like bariatric surgery-- should be considered as a last resort for those unwilling or unable to treat the cause of their obesity. Put diabetics on ozempic, and they eat less high-fat and sweet foods. Put nondiabetics on ozempic, and they eat less high-fat and non-sweet foods. So, diabetics on ozempic are eating fewer pastries and doughnuts, and nondiabetics on ozempic are eating fewer ham, cheese, and sausage sandwiches. The problem is people eat too much crap; so, anything that gets people to eat less crap can be beneficial, including surgically rearranging our digestive organs with bariatric surgery. But we don’t need to go under the knife or take a $1,000-a-month drug to de-crap our diet. But what about the cravings, though? The obesogenic environment-- that is, the obesity-generating toxic food environment-- can overwhelm even substantial efforts to enact individual behavioral changes. After ramping up for three months to high-dose ozempic, people are able to cut nearly 1,000 calories out of their daily diet. How could you possibly do that without drugs, unless you were on some kind of liquid diet meal-replacement shakes or something? Or, you could eat a diet centered around the healthiest foods on the planet. If you put people on a diet packed with fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and beans, and allow them to eat as much as they want, they end up eating about 50 percent fewer calories than they might have otherwise. Just as full, on half the calories. Wait. How can people be satisfied after cutting more than 1,000 calories out of their daily diets? By eating more high-bulk, low-calorie-density foods (vegetables, fruits, whole grains, and beans) and fewer calorie-dense foods, like meats, cheeses, sugars, and fats. No wonder a whole food plant-based diet apparently achieved greater weight loss than any other diet. So, could good nutrition present a safer and cheaper approach to weight loss for most patients? Not only can the ingestion of a plant-based meal more than double GLP-1 secretion, compared to a same-calorie meat meal, but plant-based diets can also cause weight loss by virtue of calorie-trapping, high-fiber foods, which flush calories away, or by boosting our resting metabolic rate, which helps explain why the largest study of vegans to date showed that those eating strictly plant-based diets are about 35 pounds (16 kg) lighter, on average. One randomized trial found that a strictly plant-based diet may reduce annual food costs by about $500. Healthier, more plant-based, diets may be about 25 percent less expensive. And eating groats and greens, maybe even spicy groats and greens, may be able to provide an extra GLP-1 boost. For more healthy weight-loss tips, check out my evidence-based weight-loss book, for which all proceeds I receive are donated to charity. The Drug and Therapeutics Bulletin, which is also independent and doesn’t accept any advertising, concluded that more data on ozempic’s long-term safety and efficacy are needed before it can be recommended for routine use for the treatment of obesity, reminding readers that historically, nearly all the drugs approved for weight loss have later been pulled from the market because of safety concerns. But wait. Obesity so dramatically decreases one’s lifespan that even if these drugs ended up shaving years off of people’s lives, wouldn’t they still be worth it? Well, that assumes these drugs cure obesity, but if you remember from the drug’s own package insert, in all the major trials, people started out obese and ended up obese, after the drugs effectively stopped working and body weight plateaus. Then, you’re paying to take the drug for the rest of your life just so you don’t lose ground and re-gain everything, while continuing to face any and all long-term side effects. Historically, the medical profession has offered a sorry collection of harmful or downright dangerous weight-loss interventions. Caution about long-term side effects is, therefore, warranted. If you look at the post-approval withdrawal of anti-obesity drugs, pulled from the market because of safety concerns only discovered years later, it took an average of a decade before dangers came to light, and in one case, we didn’t discover a weight-loss drug’s long-term adverse effects until 38 years after it hit the market. What’s more, even after that first report of danger, it takes an average of another decade to actually get it banned. It can even take as long as another two decades, even though people died in about a quarter of cases. As one critic said about how long it takes regulators to act: "It would probably take the system 2 years to ban cyanide.” Just recently, a French drug maker was fined nearly half a billion dollars for fraudulently and relentlessly promoting its appetite-suppressing weight-loss drug while covering up known harms, causing hundreds or thousands to die from heart valve problems. At least it learned its lesson, though. I mean, what other drug company would conceal the harms of appetite suppressors after a fine that big? After all, it was only making up to 20 million euros a year. Let me do the math real quick... That’ll teach ’em! These days, GLP-1 drug makers are worth more than a trillion dollars. I’m sure they would never try to cover anything up.