"The Side Effects of Quinine (Tonic Water) to Boost GLP-1" In my last video, I talked about how the quinine in a third of a liter of tonic water can suppress appetite and cause people to lose weight. But there are "risks for the consumption of quinine." Quinine is a drug and may in fact be among the most common causes of severe drug-induced disorders. Just the levels of quinine found in tonic water may cause potentially fatal immunologically-mediated hypersensitivity reactions, basically like allergic reactions, where it interacts with antibodies to trigger autoimmune reactions that can cause chills, fever, a drop in blood pressure, painful bluish discoloration of the hands and feet, and clotting within your blood vessels. It can also chew up your red blood cells, leading to anemia. Chew up your platelets, leading to bleeding and bruising. And chew up your white blood cells, leading to immune dysfunction. As well as acute kidney injury, the dissolution of your muscles, liver toxicity, heart damage, respiratory failure, low blood sugars, blindness, and toxic epidermal necrolysis, which can manifest as genital blistering, sloughed penile erosion, or an eroded scrotum. Even minute exposure to quinine in common beverages can cause severe adverse reactions involving multiple organ systems. So, the "moral of the story" is that a relaxing gin and tonic may be the cause of life-threatening disease. Now, these are rare, idiosyncratic reactions. Just because peanuts can be life-threatening to someone with a peanut allergy doesn’t mean everybody needs to avoid peanuts. But there are non-hypersensitivity adverse effects, too. For example, when quinine isn’t eroding scrotums, it may still be shrinking them. Researchers found quinine so damaging to the testicles of rats that they suggested that quinine should be explored as male contraceptive. Quinine is an extremely toxic agent in overdose, with vision loss as a common outcome. The reason people may have quinine pills around their house is that some people take them for nocturnal leg cramps. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration concluded that this was not safe; so, it banned quinine’s use for this purpose in both over-the-counter preparations and even in prescriptions, after receiving hundreds of reports of serious adverse events associated with quinine use, including 93 deaths. It’s still available with a prescription as a malaria drug, though, which doctors were prescribing for leg cramps, skirting FDA recommendations, but given its rare but serious allergic-type reactions, and risk of OD’ing on quinine pills, that’s probably not a good idea. Thankfully, following warnings by the FDA, the use of quinine for treatment of muscle cramps has dramatically declined. Of course, even though the FDA banned it from one aisle of the drug store, it still may be available in another, in the form of tonic water. Yeah, but can the lower levels of the drug found in drinks still cause problems? Yes, an overdose can leave you blind, affecting not only the retina in the back of your eye but the iris in the front, leading to oval pupils. How bizarre is that? Okay, okay, but what if you don’t overdose? Can quinine still affect your vision? Following the identification by the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology of quinine in autopsy specimens from military pilot fatalities, researchers had volunteers drink tonic water for two weeks and were indeed able to show some abnormalities. Even transient blurring of vision can be disastrous if experienced by anyone operating heavy machinery at high speeds. So, given the concern that tonic water consumption may have contributed to aviation accidents, the use of tonic water by pilots is actually forbidden three days before flying. I didn’t know that. So, how much is too much? There was a case reported of a 46-year-old man with increasing visual deterioration and difficulty with night driving over three months, during which he had been drinking a gallon of tonic water a day. Okay, so, a gallon may be too much. This person was drinking a liter of tonic water prior to the onset of his "Quinine water-triggered heart arrhythmia." His doctors suggest the public is simply unaware of the risks associated with excessive consumption of tonic water, but how many people are drinking almost a quart a day? The "no-untoward-effect" level in humans has been estimated to be 52.5 mg of quinine a day, which is about a two and a half cups (590 ml) of tonic water. Based on ototoxicity, damage to our hearing, maybe we shouldn’t drink much more than two cups (470 ml) a day, but these levels are based on trying to extrapolate from animal models. Since quinine was so commonly prescribed to treat leg cramps, can’t we just look at large populations of people and see if anything bad happened? Yes, indeed, we can, and those prescribed quinine had a 27 percent increased risk of acute kidney injury, which is not as bad as death: "Association Between Long-term Quinine Exposure and All-Cause Mortality." Following 175,000 people for about six years, researchers found that those who were taking about 200 mg of quinine a day had a 25 percent greater risk of dying. Those on around 300 mg had an 83 percent greater risk of dying, and those on 400 mg or more appeared to double their risk for death. So, I would recommend staying away from quinine. Although the FDA has determined that carbonated beverages may safely contain up to 83 mg of quinine per liter, bottles of bubbly drinks usually don’t say how much is in them, and some popular brands don’t even list it as an ingredient at all. How do you know if your drink has quinine or not? Hold it up to a black light, and if it lights up with an iridescent blue glow, well, quinine is the secret ingredient for making fluorescent Jell-O shots.