"The Benefits of Purslane for Treating Oral Lichen Planus" There's an inflammatory autoimmune condition known as oral lichen planus, in which our immune system starts attacking the lining of our mouth. This is what it looks like. It's actually not that rare, it strikes up to five percent of the population, particularly women, and about one percent of cases can turn into cancer. There's no cure, there's just symptomatic treatments: steroids, immunosuppressants, and total glucosides of peony. Like, peony peony? Yes, medicinal properties in the root of the common garden peony. That's neat. But are there any edible plants that may help? There's a plant called purslane, one of the most common weeds in the world— you can see it growing out of the cracks in the sidewalk everywhere you look, once you start looking. Its healing properties were thought to be so reliable that Roman savant Pliny the Elder advised wearing the plant as an amulet to expel all evil. I don't know about that. What about just eating it? A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial found that 83 percent of those in the purslane group experienced partial or complete clinical improvement, compared to 83 percent in the placebo group who either didn't respond or got worse. So, this simple weed appears to be clinically effective in the treatment of oral lichen planus, with no side effects. In a comparison to the efficacy and safety of nine different treatments, including steroids and immunosuppressants, purslane appeared to not only be the safest, but the most effective treatment available, with only good side-effects: lowering triglycerides and decreasing inflammation. You can overdo it, though. Purslane is a high oxalate green, with nearly half as much oxalates as spinach. So, even if you don't tend to get kidney stones, you don't want to eat four pounds (2 kg) of purslane at a time. I know it's delicious, but as little as a pound and a half (0.70 kg) at a time, or even two pounds (0.90 kg) spread out over two meals could potentially overload the kidney and cause damage. Purslane can even fight lichen planus topically. A purslane gel appeared to work as well as topical steroids, the gold standard treatment. The researchers concluded that purslane is a "magical" herb: beneficial, lacking side effects, and therefore can be a safer alternative drug in oral lichen planus treatment. But by alternative "drug" they're just talking about a weed that grows for free all over.