"The Side Effects of ozempic (Semaglutide) vs. the Risks of Obesity" Even the drug manufacturers of ozempic and similar weight-loss drugs cop to the long list of potentially serious side effects. The absolute risks, though, for serious issues like pancreatitis, thyroid cancer, bowel obstruction, were all about 1% or less per year of using GLP-1-type drugs. Of course, when millions of people are on these drugs, even relatively rare side effects will occur in a large number of people. But you know what else can have serious side effects? Obesity. In fact, one potential side effect of GLP-1 drugs is that they could be too effective, risking excessive weight loss, suppressing the appetite so much, for example, that after taking her first dose, this patient decided to start a new diet composed of water and diet soda. Or an "eat once a week" plan. Any discussion of risks versus benefits has to take any benefits of the weight loss itself into account. Excess body fat is a major risk factor for metabolic diseases, involving nearly every organ in our body, such as Type II diabetes, heart disease, stroke, dementia, liver disease, sleep apnea, osteoarthritis, infertility, several cancers, including breast cancer and colon cancer, even psychiatric disorders. Consider the overall health outcomes of those undergoing bariatric surgery, which is not exactly a benign procedure. In the United States, for instance, hundreds of thousands go under the knife to lose weight. Roux-en-Y gastric bypass is one of the most popular techniques and is thought to be the "gold standard" method given its safety record, with a mortality rate less 0.5%. Wait, they’re bragging about not killing more than 1 in 200 people in the operating room? The surgery is a major rearrangement of your digestive tract, but it can induce a long-term weight loss of about 25%, which is similar to some of the best results of the new GLP-1 drugs. So, if you only care about living longer, might the benefits of weight loss outweigh the risks of dying on the operating table? Based on a meta-analysis of millions of patients, only about 1 in 1,250 people appear to be killed directly by the surgery, and since the ones who don’t lose their lives tend to lose so much weight, bariatric surgery has been associated with a six-year longer lifespan. So, on average, choosing to go under the knife may significantly extend your life, even after taking into account the risk of the operation itself killing you. But, of course, there’s also the risk of complications. Approximately 1 in 4 bariatric surgery patients experience adverse effects in the five years following surgery, and for 1 in 50, it’s so bad that they have to go back onto the operating table for further surgery. That’s one advantage of the drug approach. If you experience some serious side effect, it may go away when you stop taking the drug, whereas if you’ve already had your stomach cut out, or your intestines rearranged, there may be less that can be done about it. Here’s a list of the pros and cons. Researchers looked at the impact of bariatric surgery on more than five dozen health outcomes. And although people who underwent surgery may be more likely to kill themselves, break bones, and suffer acid reflux, they also appear to get less diabetes, high blood pressure, and high cholesterol, and less cancer and cardiovascular disease. Here’s how it breaks down. Just looking at the statistically significant associations, we can see that those who’ve had bariatric surgery had a lower risk of dying from all causes put together, as well as dying specifically from diabetes, cancer, and cardiovascular disease, but they are at an increased risk of taking their own lives. In terms of metabolic outcomes, lower risks of getting diabetes, high blood pressure and high cholesterol. Lower risks of continuing to have diabetes, and cholesterol, and a lower risk of diabetic complications. In terms of getting cancer, there’s a lower risk of developing different types of cancer and getting any kind of cancer at all. A lower risk of all the cardiovascular diseases the researchers looked at, and most of the digestive diseases except for reflux with sleeve gastrectomy, and higher or lower risk of kidney stones depending on procedure, but it generally seems to be kidney protective. For women’s health, after bariatric surgery, they had less urinary incontinence and polycystic ovary syndrome, and fewer problems during pregnancy, though the outcomes for infants are mixed, with more preterm birth and death. And finally, less anxiety and depression, though more self-harm, and a lower risk of being hospitalized and dying from COVID. So, generally, the benefits far outweigh the risks, but, really, that says less about the benefits of surgery and more about the risks of excess body fat. With the GLP-1 drugs, we see largely similar improvements in things like blood sugar control, blood pressure, and cholesterol, and maybe even similar clinical outcomes, like the risk of dying. If that were the case, then for most people with obesity, like with the bariatric surgery, the benefits of these new drugs would be expected to far exceed the risks. Yes, there are still issues with the cost of these potentially life-long medications, and lack of knowledge of their long-term side effects, and this, of course, assumes you’re taking the actual drug. Shortages of these pills have led patients to compounding pharmacies that offer versions of the drugs that have not been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, which in the past has led to serious safety issues, like an epidemic of fungal meningitis caused by moldy bottles of drugs from compounding pharmacies. 751 patients were ultimately affected, and more than 60 patients died. But at least compounding pharmacies have some kind of regulation. Nowadays, people can get injected with God knows what at so-called medical spas that may not be under any form of regulation. People don’t seem to be paying much attention to these FDA warnings. As an article in Rolling Stone put it, "The FDA warned ozempic users," but, "They don’t give a ..." Yes, these drugs can improve risk factors, but the risk-benefit analysis really depends on these clinical disease outcomes. Do people really live longer on these drugs? Have less heart attacks? That’s exactly what I’ll cover, next.