"The Best Daily Dose of Taurine" The remarkable trial showing that taurine supplementation improved the lifespan and healthspan of animals used doses that may far exceed the recommended safe consumption limits in humans. At the press conference, the corresponding author said that they would not recommend people to start taking taurine supplements to try to preserve health or slow aging. Not only do we have no human studies showing that kind of benefit, we don’t even know what the potential risks are, since we don’t have large, long-term human safety trials. In my last video, I talked about those who might be particularly sensitive to taurine, and what happens, at least in the short term, if we exceed recommended intakes. If, after careful consideration, you still want to give it a try, what source, dose, and frequency might be best? In terms of frequency, the bump in our blood stream only lasts about six hours. So, we’d presumably want to split doses to maintain higher levels; for example, three times a day, like, at every meal. What dose? Well, just for context, most people get between 40 and 400 milligrams a day through their diet. So, that’s like, a normal, typical daily dose. If our goal is to restore youthful levels, we’d want to bump our levels up from around the 50-micromole range to maybe the 100 or 200 range. Here’s a study where participants got 400 milligrams a day, up at the higher end of a normal dietary dose, for a week, and got levels into that upper range. Here, a two-gram daily dose also pushed levels into that target range, but, unfortunately, studies are all over the place. Here’s a good illustration of why using a blood target level doesn’t work. These 10 people were given one gram of taurine three times a day for a month. First of all, see how they started all over the place, from 18 to more than 600? And after a month, most of their levels went up, but sometimes they actually went down. And this measured levels in the plasma or serum, the liquid part of the blood. Levels in the blood cells themselves can be hundreds of times higher, and levels in whole blood don’t seem to correlate with levels in plasma. So, should we measure taurine in whole blood? But whole blood levels don’t move as much or even in any significant amount in response to supplementation. In this study, researchers gave people 1.66 grams twice a day, shooting up plasma levels to a thousand, yet, at the end of the week, there was no change in levels in the muscle, based on muscle biopsies. The body didn’t seem to care what was happening in the blood it kept the tissue levels stable. In contrast, when rats are given taurine, the levels of taurine in their muscles go up. So, maybe taurine is like the NAD-booster debacle? You can rewatch my webinar for a recap, but, remember how NAD also declined with age? And restoration of youthful levels with supplements caused all these amazing benefits in lab animals, so, a gazillion-dollar NAD supplement industry was born? But, when finally put to the test in people, they totally flopped. And, no wonder. In rodents, these supplements actually boosted NAD levels in their tissues, but we’re not rodents, and the supplements all failed to raise levels in our muscles. So, maybe when we have human trials on taurine, they’ll also fail in the same way. But maybe not. For those who don’t want to wait, what dose should we shoot for? We really have no idea, but from all the human trials that have been done, the most commonly used dose in the blood pressure lowering trials, which is probably the best demonstrated benefit that also best lowers oxidative stress and inflammation is about 1.5 grams a day. So, that would be 500 milligrams three times a day. Okay, that’s the dose and the frequency, but what’s the best source? That’s what I’ll cover, next.