Last thing to note here, and this is really true against any exercise program, for any goal, is we have to understand how we're modifying and really be intentional and judicious about all seven of the modifiable variables. If you've not heard that phrase before, I would recommend checking out my guest series with Dr. Andrew Huberman on the Huberman Lab podcast I did in 2023, and we talked about them in detail. So to go through them quickly here, I use an acronym developed by my former colleague and lab mate, Dr. Lee Brown, which is called COFIVRP. It's a wonderful acronym. Scientists are always great at developing acronyms. But it stands for choice, which is exercise choice, so what exercises are you selecting? This includes equipment as well as what movement patterns, and a lot of the things I just discussed a second ago. So the choice of the exercise you're selecting influences in part what adaptation you're going to get: strength and power or hypertrophy. O, which stands for order, it's another way of what order do I do them in. So what exercise goes first in my day, second, third, fourth, fifth, et cetera. In the case of things like strength and power, order is incredibly important. You need to be hyperspecific. With hypertrophy, it's far less important. The next one is V for volume. This is how many repetitions multiplied by how many sets throughout the week. So what's my total weekly or monthly volume? Again, as I said a second ago, it's important in both categories here, that we're paying attention, but really, we need to make sure that we're not losing volume over time with hypertrophy. And for strength we just want to make sure we're not doing so much volume that it's compromising our ability to come back and use high force and high power in our next training session, because those are the ultimate drivers, generally, for those adaptations. The next is I for intensity, and that refers to, again, what percentage of your one repetition maximum you're going after. It's the inverse answer to what I just said a second ago, where intensity needs to be key for power and strength and where it is important, but far less relevant for actual muscle hypertrophy. F stands for frequency. This is how many days per week. Easy distinction here. When you're training for hypertrophy, you don't necessarily want to train the same muscle on multiple days in a row, because you need to allow some recovery. Now, where a lot of people actually make the mistake here, you don't need the muscles to have complete rest. It doesn't need to be completely turned off for two or three days. As you'll see in the program, it's not needed, but you definitely don't want to work it hard multiple days in a row in your typical fashion. Strength and power is the opposite. You can train the same muscles every single day. As you'll see, the program does. Not a problem here, because there's not a lot of residual fatigue, not a lot of local fatigue, rather like in the actual muscle, not a lot of soreness because we're not pushing that adaptation. And so frequency can be very different between these two programs and should be. Strength and power requires practice, which means more repetitions, which means a lot more frequently. R stands for rest, which is your rest interval. How much time am I taking between sets or even repetitions? You have the option: for hypertrophy, can be low rest, say 30 seconds of rest, or maybe even less, all the way up to five minutes of rest; but for strength and power, almost always, you need to have a minimum of three minutes of rest, because again we're going after something different here. This is really about the quality of each individual movement, and so if we're keeping ourselves to a short rest and we're losing our force or power production, then we're losing our actual goal, which means we're not going to get what we're after. There are exceptions to all these rules, but this is just a standard default of typically what we're trying to do. The last variable here stands for P, progression, which is how are we progressing these things over time? And that is really what we're going to talk about along the way.