So let's start off with that first seminal Steven Blair paper from 1989 in JAMA, in that they had about 10,000 men and about 3,000 women or so. And what's actually interesting about this study, and many others like it, they typically follow the individuals for years. I believe in this actual study, it was something like nine years, and within that, several hundred people actually died. And so it's a bit morbid, I understand, but it makes the science incredibly compelling because we can look at a number of people, wait for several of them to die, and then come back and say, "What actually was different between those people who died at baseline versus those who didn't die? You know, again, at baseline and after that." And so we can get really strong insights about what predicted death. Now what they found in this initial study, and this is directly from the paper itself, was after age adjustment, so again, they would kind of factor in their age, and say, "Let's take that out of the equation." So after age-adjusted, all-cause mortality, meaning died for any reason, declined directly across fitness levels. So as you reduced your fitness, you increased your all-cause mortality risk. And it went from a number of what is referred to as 64, so 64 deaths per 10,000 people, that was the highest rate there. It reduced from that to about 18.6. And so again, if you're looking at that saying, "All right, if I go from the least-fit category to the most-fit, my risk goes from 64 deaths per 10,000 people, down to 18 deaths per 10,000 people." If that part has confused you, just run the 18 versus the 64. So another way to think about that is if my risk of dying is 18, and now it all of a sudden, it goes up to 64, it's a huge increase in your risk of dying and nobody wants that. Similar story for the women, the numbers there actually went from the risk per 10,000 was 39.5, and reduced all the way to 8.5. And so again, clear evidence that this thing was happening. And what's also interesting here, just because someone will ask, I'm sure, this was true once they factored out things like, again, as I mentioned age, but also smoking habits, cholesterol levels, systolic blood pressure, fasting blood glucose levels, parental history of coronary artery disease, and then follow up, and other metrics. And so what they're basically saying is, even if you take those things into account, you still see this massive reduction in health when we have a reduction in cardiovascular fitness. Now I realize following numbers like that is sometimes difficult if you're only listening to this in the audio version, so we'll have this paper in the show notes. The actual title of the paper is " Physical Fitness and All-Cause Mortality: A Prospective Study of Healthy Men and Women." And again, first author Steven Blair from 1989. So if you cruise onto Table 2 of that paper, you're going to see that they actually ran the analysis and split up the men and women into Quintiles. So this would mean the lowest 20% of fitness, the next 20, next 20, next 20, the next 20. So take everyone across the spectrum, lowest to highest, and split 'em up, top 20%, et cetera, et cetera, all the way down. And what I'll read off to you is the relative risk. And again, this is risk of dying, as we go from the most-fit 20 percentile, to the next most-fit, to the middle kind of 20%, to the second to last 20%, all the way to the bottom 20%, that's the way to view this. So if you start at the highest level of fitness and we put that as just a number of 1.0, right? So this is a saying, "Okay, you're at a 1.0." if I go from the top 20 percentile to the next 20 percentile, so think of this as like 60 to 80th percent, if you will. My risk goes from 1 to 1.7. So this is a 17% increase in risk. If I go to the next one down, it's gone from 1 to 1.7 to 1.46. The next after that, 1.36, and then here's where it explodes. So again, think of this as if you are somewhere between the 20th to 40th percentile, 100 being the best, 0 being the absolute worst, so just being the second to last category, your risk is 1.37. You go from that category to the bottom 20th percentile, so just one category below, your risk goes from 1.37 to 3.44. And this is why people will highlight, you don't have to necessarily be the fittest on the planet from a health and cardiovascular risk perspective, but you cannot be the lowest. The magnitude of improvement you see from going from the least-fit people around, to just a second least-fit, is almost half to three times the risk reduction. So massive improvements, you'll see the exact same thing in women in this study. So to not run you through everything, but we really talking about improvements as you go from the healthiest or most-fit, kind of going all the way down to the bottom 20th percentile, that risk factor is 2.42, and then the lowest goes from 2.42, all the way up to 4.65. So a similar message between the men and the women, just being the bottom of that category is incredibly dangerous and problematic for your health, so if you can just do a little bit to bump up one level, that's going to do a lot for you. Now again, there's a ton of studies you could pull from here, the numbers, again, I don't want you to be super specific on that 'cause they will differ depending upon the population. A little bit of context on that, I grabbed another study for you also in JAMA far more recently called "The Association of Cardio Respiratory Fitness with Long-Term Mortality Among Adults Undergoing Exercise Treadmill Testing." And this is actually going to tell you a similar story, but I wanted to show you how even the studies that are a little bit different are going to have the same take-home message. In this particular analysis, now they've got over 122,000 patients. So okay, great, maybe there was something unique about Blair and his little population of 15,000 people, or so, what about if we 10 x that number roughly, do we see the same basic results? And the answer is effectively yes. So in this, almost 14,000 people died throughout the course of this study. So we're getting same kind of idea, pretty healthy people, some are going to die, but what does it really look like in terms of the folks that stayed alive and those that did not? I'll zoom you all the way down to the end to not make it so painstaking as the previous one, but similar stuff here, in fact it's even more jarring because they're able to do more in-depth analysis here of some of those other co-factors, which is what I want to highlight, so. You know, directly from the paper again here, "The increase in all-cause mortality is associated with reduced cardiorespiratory fitness, which was comparable or to or greater than traditional clinical risk factors, such as coronary artery disease, smoking, and diabetes." Now I am certainly not trying to tell you that as long as you're in shape that it's okay if you smoke or do anything else, I have nothing of expertise whatsoever in your actual clinical health, work through that with your actual doctor or physician. Again, just from this one particular study, really profound there, right? The cardiovascular fitness, again, VO₂ Max, was more predictive than traditional risk factors like coronary artery disease, smoking, and diabetes, right? So I'll put numbers behind this because it gets even more interesting. "The cardiorespiratory fitness is inversely associated with long-term mortality and not observed to be an upper limit." What that also means is, there doesn't seem to be any reduction in the benefit by continuing to increase your VO₂ Max. So in other words, the higher your VO₂ Max goes, the more it seems to preserve all-cause mortality risk. So there doesn't appear to be in this study, in fact, you'd see the same thing if you looked at almost any other study in this area, there seems to be no upper limit. And so there's just really not a rationale of saying, "Well, I'm good enough here, I'm okay, this is enough, and if I get any better it won't really help that much." You actually do see that in sport performance. So a classic example here is in the sport of mixed martial arts, if you were to examine the VO₂ Max's of the athletes in that, you would see that it's kind of on an average of about 55 milliliters per kilogram per minute, and if you get past that, the benefits of performance continue to go up, but slightly, and once you really start getting past north of 65, it seems to be really no more association between improved performance, by that I mean winning fights, it doesn't mean it is detrimental, of course, or not advantageous to be in better fitness prior to a mixed martial art fight, but we're just saying the rate of increase in performance against the rate of increase in VO₂ Max starts to taper off. We don't see a similar thing with cardiovascular health. So hopefully, I've made my point here, about the importance of VO₂ Max, but in case I haven't, just one more final study that I thought was of interest here, to bring this point home even more. Actually, this is one of Jonathan Myers's more recent papers called "Cardiorespiratory Fitness and Mortality Risk Across the Spectra of Age, Race, and Sex," published in the last couple of years here, and this is actually in 750,000 US veterans between the ages of 30 and 95, and I like this paper because the sample size is enormous. Again, it takes into account things like race, as well as age at that spectrum, right? Almost a 65-year spectrum. And within that, 175,000 people or so died. So if it held up against 15,000, then it held up against 150,000 and now it's holding up against 750,000, I just don't know how much more evidence one would need to see to believe not only in this as an actual finding, but the relative risk ratio seems to be lining up across all these studies as pretty similar. And so what they found in this, again, same idea, they found no reduced benefit of extreme fitness. In other words, the higher the VO₂ Max, just the higher the risk reduction, there seemed to be no upper limit there. And in addition, what they found was a couple of metrics. So if you take into account what are called the comorbidities, and so you look at things like diabetes. Diabetes in this particular study, took their risk factor from 1 to 1.34, so that's a big deal. However, going from the highest fitness level to the next highest fitness level, represented an increase of risk of 1.66. So again, I'm not saying that diabetes is okay or anything like that, again, I'm not a medical doctor, and I don't do really anything with disease, but just look how staggering this is. And in fact, if you run this all the way out, examples in this paper, and here I'm looking at Figure 2, by the way, in case you want to go look yourself, you're talking about the addition of age represented a 1.06 increase in risk factor, hypertension, smoking, arterial fibrillation, cancer, all these things are plotted, and you can see how much they increased risk, and all of those, the highest one was chronic kidney disease, which represented 1.49. When you look into the VO₂ Max numbers, the lowest risk factor was 1.39. And then it just escalates from there, to 1.66, to 2.1, to 2.9, again with the least-fit people having a 4X higher risk of mortality, that's how important your heart is. And so it's hard for me to make a cogent argument, that even as athletes who are interested in, say again, dunking a basketball or these anaerobic high power, low fatigue sports, very difficult to say, your heart is not playing a big role in your global health, and that that isn't going to limit your performances somehow.