The science and practice of enhancing human performance for sport, play, and life. Welcome to Perform. I'm Dr. Andy Galpin. I'm a professor and scientist and the executive director of the Human Performance Center at Parker University. Today's guest is Dr. Herman Pontzer. Herman has a PhD in biological anthropology and is currently a professor at Duke University in the area of evolutionary anthropology. In today's show, you're gonna learn a lot about what Herman is probably most famous for, and that is how metabolism really works. We talk at length, and you'll learn a tremendous amount about how to properly think of energy expenditure, the role that exercise does or maybe surprisingly doesn't have in things like energy expenditure, body weight, body composition, and overall health. He also does a wonderful job teaching about how energy expenditure changes with things like pregnancy and other things we don't typically think of as exercise or sport, but are highly relevant and incredibly interesting regarding how our metabolism and overall physiology works. So there's a lot of practical tips here. There's a lot of just fascinating information. I know you'll enjoy it. I was thrilled to do it. I waited a long time to talk to Herman. So with that said, please enjoy today's episode with Dr. Herman Pontzer. Dr. Herman Pontzer, thank you for coming in today. It's fun to be here. It is a huge honor. I've been wanting to talk to you for a really long time, even before I had a, a podcast. (laughs) Your, your work is incredibly interesting. Um, I'd actually like to start with exactly your work- Yeah. ... in the sense that, uh, your PhD is in, uh, anthropology from Harvard. That's right. Yep. Um, but you probably are most, I'd say, notable for setting the world on fire a little bit with, um, some interesting and controversial takes on metabolism. Mm-hmm. How the body burns fat, the role of f- physical exercise. You had a, a series of papers come out that, um, I'd say put you on the map, if that's a fair way to put it. So, what is it exactly that you do? Why is a anthropologist, uh, changing the way we think about metabolism? That's a great question. Uh, so, you know, as an anthropologist, I'm interested in how the human body works and how it got this way, right? Yeah. So sort of an evolutionary lens on the way the body functions. Uh, and so coming up through my training in undergrad and then graduate school, uh, I never had any sort of public health or sort of, you know, obesity research sort of interests necessarily. I wanted to understand energy expenditure though, because it's, it's just sort of this... It's where the rubber hits the road, you know? Uh, any organism is, uh... You can think of it as a strategy for turning energy into offspring, right? That's the game in life. And so, uh, from undergraduate up through graduate school, I was very interested in how the body brings energy in and burns it off. Uh, and you start following your nose that way, and you get into some interesting places, because, you know, trying to understand how locomotion burns calories and how that relates to anatomy, that was my graduate work. Okay. Uh, and then when I kind of thought I understood that pretty well, I, I built like a... Put together a mathematical model for predicting the energy expenditure, you know, to, to go walk or run a mile depending on how your limb anatomy looks. Right. Uh, I felt like I understood that pretty well, and I thought, "Okay, let's, let's, let's expand that. Let's think about a whole energy budget." How does a whole, you know, a, a chimp or a human or any... How do we bring energy in and burn it off over 24 hours, the whole, the whole shooting match? And, um, s- uh, turns out people hadn't really been doing a lot of measurements, uh, you know, of total energy expenditure, all energy burned through the whole day, um, in humans outside of like Western context. We had data from the US or Europe. We didn't have- Yeah. ... data from traditional contexts which are sort of more relevant for, you know, human evolutionary perspectives. We had no data on, uh, the other apes or that kind of thing. And so I started this whole... The last 20 years has been trying to, to measure energy expenditures in these contexts from an e- ecological, evolutionary perspective. And then, you know, we wi- wind up in some pretty interesting territory. Your first book- Mm-hmm. ... Burn, walks like through a lot of these things, but just- Oh, sure. ... as a starting place in the story here, um, what, what, what is this deal with this hunter-gatherer group? What did we get wrong with the paleo diet? Like give us the- Oh. Yeah. Give us the real quick overview there. So, you know, again, from an evolutionary perspective, how do we understand our body? Well, we are hunter-gatherers, right? Humans have been hunting and gathering since before we were humans. Right? 2 million years. Um, and our species is only 300,000 years old. So that's, you know... We are a hunting ga- and gathering species. That's the ecological context. And so if you wanna understand how the body works, um, you know, California's fine, and, uh, New York's fine, but more relevant- Sure. ... would be a hunting and gathering context. Uh, and so luckily, there are still a handful of communities that are still doing that, you know. And they're not, they're not like time machines of the past or anything like that, but they give us a sense of, "Okay, if you had this lifestyle in this ecological context, this is how the body would function." They allow you to ask that question. And so nobody had measured energy expenditures in a hunter-gatherer group before. Um, I had some colleagues that, that were working in northern Tanzania with a, a community called the Hadza. And so, uh, we went there and did this work. And so w- we used this technique called doubly labeled water, which is this isotope tracking technique that's a really, you know, accurate measurement of how many... Uh, it's actually, um, measures how much carbon dioxide the body makes every day. So that tells you how many calories. It's over about a week or, or two-week period, so it's a really good look at how many calories you're burning. And we wrote those initial grants, uh, to go do this project, because we wanted to document how... Like, just the huge amount of calories that we were sure r- we were sure they were burning. 'Cause they get more activity in a day than most Americans get in a week. Right. Right? And so... And we were like, "Well, that's the way that humans used t- everywhere used to live. Let's understand what that does to the body." It's... The calorie expenditures are gonna be huge. Nobody's mea- measured it. It was exciting to go do this work, right? And so we go there to northern Tanzania, 2009 and 2010, uh, armed with, you know, isotopically enriched water and- Mm-hmm. ... the whole kit. Uh, and we do these measurements. Um, and we get back and we get the data set back, um, and we're just completely shocked, because, you know, actually, it turns out the total energy burned per day was no different than folks in the US, Europe, uh, you know, s- people sitting at their desks all day. Uh-huh. Like, what's going on? And, uh... And so, you know, you have a choice there as a scientist. You have this model of how the world works. It is totally crushed by the data. (laughs) You know? And do you stick with the, the model or do you f- say, "Okay, these are the data. We're gonna follow the data and say this, this is the observations." Obviously, you check and make sure you didn't make any silly mistakes, all that kind of stuff. Yeah, I think there's a little bit of a reckoning in your soul, right? Yeah. You're like, "Oh my God, our whole project is wr-" We've, we've messed something up. That's exactly it. Right? And then you j- double and you triple and you standardize again- Yes. Yes. ... and the data don't change, and now... Yes. Yes. You know, and so what do you do? And so I thought, "Well, okay, here we go." I guess I'm, you know, gonna talk about obesity now. So I said... 'Cause that was this idea in public health, of course. You still hear it. Oh, we're so sedentary now, which is true, and that's bad. That's true. And, um, and now we're not burning up as many calories, and that's why obesity is a problem. Well, that part turns out maybe not to be true. And so let's think about... You know, so I wrote the paper and, and, um, you know, and then all of a sudden, like you say, I'm in this space talking to people like you. When you say energy expenditure- ... and you're saying things like these people who are hunter-gatherers in, in various parts of Africa... And you've done that work in, in Tanzania, in Kenya, and you've sort of been all over. Yeah. And you say that it's not different than us sitting around all day. What is energy expenditure? What are you actually talking about here? Yes. Good place to start. So, you've got about 37 trillion cells in your body, give or take. Just a few. Yeah. Nobody's counting them, but you know, it's about that. And so every one of those cells is like a little factory, right? It's got a set of jobs it does. It brings resources in. It does its thing. And so every little factory is burning energy, right? And so all of that cumulatively is what we call your metabolic rate, right? Um, and we can think about all the energy that you burn over the course of...... a minute while you're on the treadmill. We can think about it w- while you're, uh, at rest, you know, for an hour. We can think about it over the course of 24 hours. And so, the way that we usually measure it is over 24 hours. Actually, we measure it, we measure it over a week or more, and then we take the average, sort of per 24-hour period. Um, and so that's your metabolic rate. And so, it's all your systems altogether. One of the things that people kind of misunderstand initially is that they think, "Oh, well, your energy expenditure is all about how active you are." Even if you're active, most of your calories are being burnt on other things. Yep. Your immune system, your brain, you know, all the... you know. So, uh, anyway, so it's, it's the full package. It's the whole... all the things that your bodies are doing. That's your, your metabolic rate that we're talking about. Mm-hmm. You know, not the per minute cost on a treadmill, not while you're just sleeping, but the whole thing. Right. So if you were to say all the calories you burn in a week, uh- Yeah. ... some of them will be burned just staying alive. Yep. Right. We, we call that generally your basal metabolic rate or your resting metabolic rate, right? Mm-hmm. That's one of the components. Then the calories that you burn working out- ... which is generally, what, 5, 10%? It depends on how much you work out. So, uh, it can be 30% of your expenditure if you're active. Yeah. Okay. So somewhere, um... basal metabolic rate is generally, what, 40, 50, 60%? Usually over half, a little over half. Yep. Then on top of that, you've got some additional calories you burn from twitching and fidgeting and like- That's, what, another 5 or 10%? Well, it's hard to put numbers on that. So that's where it starts to break down 'cause- Right. ... it's really hard to figure that out, right? This, this is where you've made your money, right? Yeah. I guess that's right. Yeah. And so, I mean, right now talking to you, I'm burning more calories than I was in the, you know, the Uber over here chilled out zoning out. Right? Um, and so we wouldn't call this physical activity, but my heart rate is higher, right? My sympathetic tone is higher, right? All those things. And so I'm burning more calories just by being alert and attentive to you. A little bit of good stress happening, right? Hopefully. I think so. And so, th- things like that burn calories too, and it is actually quite hard. One of the next things we wanna try to do is to understand how that works 'cause that's... I think that's where the body can really juggle and, and, and can make space for somebody who's really physically active to still somehow have more or less the same energy expenditure per day as somebody who's, who's sedentary 'cause they're juggling these sort of, you know, these fungible things. Okay. Tremendous. So, when you say something like these hunter-gatherer groups and it- Yeah. ... Hadza is the one you worked out- Right. ... it actually doesn't really matter, right? W- We're actually just thinking conceptually about- Yes. ... how the body regulates energy. You have that one example, but whatever. We replicated other places and yeah, it's a general concept. So, when you say they have the same energy expenditure as us, you're not talking about energy expenditure from physical activity. Clearly, that part is higher. That's the variable you knew. So is it... their basal metabolic rate is higher or lower, or is it their other... this, this NEAT or, or some other factor? How is it that, that total number- ... that total energy expenditure is the same? How are they manipulating their partitioning to hit the same final number? Yeah. So, eh, I don't think it's as simple as BMR, basal metabolic rates. I think it's the other parts of the awake day. Mm-hmm. Um, we know from... So here's where we have to move from those studies of folks like the Hadza and, and those kind of ecological contexts to, you know, places, uh, uh, s- experimental setups where we can control things more and then we can have a better chance at getting exactly what's going on. So if we move this question about activity and expenditure into a lab here in the US where we can control everything, here's what we know. If you, um, look at athletes versus non-athletes, right? And you give them a stress, a psychosocial stress, the athlete will respond, uh, less. Their, their, their bump is smaller and it returns to baseline faster. So they've saved energy on that stress response. Um, if you look at, uh, things like inflammation, so inflammation is your immune system being overly active, it's gonna co-... we don't know how many calories it costs, but it must cost something. And you have less background inflammation if you are physically active than if you're not. If you look at things like testosterone levels or progesterone levels or, um, estrogen, you know, depending on male or female, athletes, um, endurance athletes especially, will see, uh, reductions, not, not unhealthy, but, you know, moderations in levels of testosterone and that kind of thing. And that's... those are anabolic steroid, uh, anabolic steroid hormones. Those are building and burning energy and there's less of it. Uh, and so that's, we think is how the body's kind of cobbling together. We think about it as an energy budget, right? Yeah. How do you cobble together these pieces and keep the top line number, you know, kind of in the same place no matter what else is going on? Why would we want to, as a species, keep that top end number the same? Yeah. Because, you know, a s- an organism, from an evolution perspective, an evolu- an organism should use every calorie it can without going over, right? If you're... if you aren't burning all the calories that are available to you, well, that's... you're leaving money on the table. You could be burning those calories on reproduction, maintenance, repair, anything that was gonna help you pass your genes on, which is what evolution cares about. So when times are good and you're not being super active, you should spend energy on other stuff. When times are bad and you're going further to get your food and working really hard, well, now you don't wanna just ramp up the total calories you're trying to get. That's, that's even worse. Mm-hmm. You know? So you wanna have, uh, mechanisms in place to moderate that and keep it... and sort of squash that down. And that, that's, I think, conceptually why that's happening. Today's episode is sponsored by David. David makes protein bars unlike any I have ever encountered. They have an amazing 28 grams of protein, only 150 calories, and zero grams of sugar. That's right. 28 grams of protein and 75% of its calories come from that protein. This is 50% higher than the next closest protein bar. Honestly, it's the best tasting protein bar I've had by a mile. While I often talk about the importance of getting one gram of protein per pound of body weight for things like muscle health and recovery and the promotion of lean body mass and satiety, the reality is that for most people, getting that one gram of protein per pound of body weight is really challenging. However, David makes that easy. Their bars taste incredible and are each packed with 28 grams of protein. I eat one almost every day and always have two or three in my backpack when I'm traveling, like literally always. It probably sounds funny, but I eat them as dessert all the time. When you try them, you'll know exactly what I mean. The macronutrients, one more time, are 28 grams of protein, 150 calories, and zero grams of sugar. If you're interested in trying these bars for yourself, you can go to davidprotein.com/perform. Again, that's davidprotein.com/perform. Today's episode is also sponsored by LMNT. LMNT is an electrolyte drink mix that has an ideal electrolyte ratio of sodium, potassium, and magnesium, but no sugar. Hydration is critical to performance, both physical and mental performance. Countless studies have shown that even a slight degree of dehydration, even as small as 1%, can lead to decreases in physical output and mental performance. We also know that electrolytes are critical to proper hydration, which I've been harping on for years, but you can't do that, proper hydration, by only drinking water. You need to get the right amount of electrolytes in the right ratios, and that's why I'm a huge fan of LMNT. In fact, many of you will probably remember that I featured LMNT in my YouTube series on optimizing hydration nearly five years ago. I featured LMNT in these videos because their blend of 1,000 milligrams of sodium, 200 milligrams potassium, and 60 milligrams of magnesium really is unique and different than any other electrolyte on the market and it has great scientific support. I use LMNT constantly, particularly when I'm sweating a lot, and I routinely make it a part of my clients' optimization programs. If you'd like to try LMNT-... you can go to DrinkL-M-N-T.com/perform to claim a free LMNT sample pack with the purchase of any LMNT drink mix. Again, that's DrinkL-M-N-T.com/perform to claim a free sample pack. If their total energy expenditure on both cases is the same- Mm-hmm. ... the Hadza clearly are getting more from physical activity 'cause they're- ... moving all day. Why is it then when caloric expenditure is identical between the two groups, the physical difference, the body composition- Oh, yeah. ... is, is so significantly different? Well, I, yeah, and I think the answer, the simple answer is the energy in part of the system is changing. Right? So, the reason we have an obesity problem, this is the kind of conclusion they're pointing to with these data, is that obesity is an issue of energy intake, not energy expenditure. Because energy expenditure's actually kinda hard to budge. Yep. And I won't say, uh, people, I get people talk about my work sometimes and say, "Well, he's saying it doesn't matter what you do." I see- "There's no change." ... enormous number of misquoting of you. Yeah. And misrepresentation of your position. Yeah. "There's no change at all." I said, "Well, no. Uh, uh, there could be some changes, but it's smaller and s- much smaller than you think." Right. Um, and s- and it is true, I will also say, sometimes there is no change. When you g- give somebody an exercise intervention, there are gonna be people that you don't see any change in at all. They, they completely compensate. Yep. But on average, everybody compensates a little more than anybody thinks. Um, now, that means exercise, ex- a- energy expenditure's hard to budge. Weight gain, no matter what anybody tells you, is fundamentally about eating more than you burn off. It really is it. Uh, and so, um, it must be on the energy inside. I have seen people use your work- Mm-hmm. ... as justification for saying things like, "See? Herman proved calories don't matter." (laughs) Yeah, that hurts. "It's not calories, it's insulin." Or, "It's blood glucose." Yeah, yeah- Um- ... yeah, yeah, yeah. ... and, and to make it really clear, that is, that is or is not your position? That is not my position. Okay. Great. It's, I- I can't see a reality of how people use your work to get to that conclusion. Um, but what you're clearly not saying is that calories in, calories out doesn't matter, and in fact saying it is exactly what matters. Yes. Yeah, it's all calories in, calories out. Now the question is, how do you manage that or manipulate it? It turns out, the calories out part's not as easy to manip- manipulate as we thought it was. Right. That's one, lesson one. And then, I think on the calories in part, why do we eat so much, you know, (laughs) that's, that's, that's fundamentally the question. Well, um, I think an evolutionary perspective on that helps too. I think working with folks like the Hadza helps us too, uh, because you can kinda see the, the dietary differences between a population that doesn't have an issue with unhealthy weight gain versus a population that does. Yeah. And begin to kind of pick those apart. Now, I'm not, you know, I'm not a nutritionist, so be really clear about that. Uh, but I think there's some, some clear sort of things you can draw from that kind of research. Uh, I don't remember the details of the paper offhand, it's been a decade, but I assume the Hadza were not, uh, regulating energy intake at all. No, they eat, you know, they, they, they, they're not trying to, to keep their energy intake low. They're not dieting. (laughs) And they eat, uh, meat clearly. Yep. They're eating fruits, vegetables, carbohydrates, fats, whatever- ... they can get ahold of. Is that correct? That's right. It's a mixed diet and it changes, you know, so we can get into this, I, I love talking about paleo diet and, and paleo fiction stuff where others- Yeah, you pretty much crushed that. (laughs) (laughs) Uh, because if you live with hunter-gatherers like I've had a chance to do, you know, whatever story you told yourself about what pal- hunter-gatherers eat goes out the window within the first three days. Sure. They're gonna eat whatever they can get ahold of. Exactly, and it's gonna change day to day and week to week, season to season. Um, it's, the people who I work with in northern Tanzania are not gonna eat the same thing as people who are gonna be in the Arctic. I mean, of course. Right. Right? Yeah, it- It kinda all is obvious. ... it was very, a very thin argument. So, to, to, to wrap abo- us up on this one, what you're then clearly saying is total energy expenditure between the two groups, uh, or in bigger, between most people then. Yeah. Right? Is probably a groups of people. The individual person we're gonna- ... like, we'll get into that difference, right? Sure, sure, sure. 'Cause that's, that's, I'm also very interested in that. But it's, it's likely to stay the same. The energy intake is what's regulating overall body mass- Mm-hmm. ... for the most part. You gave an example of something like endurance athletes having a down regulation, and it's just an example- ... of something like testosterone, not because running is bad for you- No. ... or bad for your endocrine system, but because as, it is a strategy of regulating energy output, right? That's right. That's right. Because your energy output of your exercise is so high- ... let's bring down your anabolic energy outputs- ... so that we can keep that total number the same. That's right. And if you look at a group like the Hadza, you know, um, we've measured testo- well, I say we, the scientific community have measured testosterone levels in the Hadza. Yep. They're lower than, uh, your typical sedentary American guy. Lower? Lower. Right? And that's because they're doing this moderation, we, and that, that all fits. Um, now I can tell you, you know, if you're worried about the masculinity or the virility of these Hadza guys, uh, they're more badass than anybody listening, I would wager. Plenty of fertility I see. Yeah. Yeah, all that, you know. So it isn't, there's no, i- we're not at, at a clinical level. You know, but I think what's fun is that you can tie this in then, there is such a thing as overtraining obviously. Clearly. And I think, you know, my inter- And you will see testosterone go down is one of the classic signs of that, right? Yes. And so, in my, my view, it's not just you're healthy, healthy, healthy and then you're not. In my view, as you exercise more and more and more, you're regulating, regulating, and then at some point, the body goes, "Oh, boy. We're outta room." And now you're re- now you're overregulating, sort of you're, you're sort of, you know, you do get into this clinical space where you're too low. Yep. Yep. But that's a sliding scale and there's lots of healthy middle. Yeah. Right? Uh, and we're probably should all be exercising more, almost all of us. Uh, but yeah, but now you can understand it, overtraining syndrome, not as some weird pathology that's, you know, it just f- happens when you fall off a cliff, but oh, this is the body's normal reaction and it's just taken too far. You will see a, uh, I can get a line of dieticians from here to Mexico- ... who will tell you about how they've increased energy intake in highly active people and their endocrine system has recovered. Sleep has gotten better, they've felt better, right? Because this is just- ... it's part of the equation. Yep. Right? Yep, yep. That's right. All right. So, past that then, the only other thing I wanna cover really, um, or ask you about in this particular topic again is- Mm-hmm. ... the second big thing I've heard people misrepresent your research and your work and your first book- Yeah. ... uh, is the fact that, okay, he's either trying to make, uh, comments about the first thing we talked about, or the second one is the fact then therefore exercise doesn't matter at all to body composition. (laughs) Thank you. Yeah. Uh, perfect. No. Uh, obviously if you exercise, it's gonna be good for your fat, for your mass. Um, there's some evidence that if you exercise, you, appetite regulation i- is better. So actually, the energy intake side is helped by the exercise more so than, you know, the e- eh- the calories expended on exercise. It might be that the, there's appetite regulation stuff happening. So no. I mean, obviously a- a- exercise is good for a lot of things, including, uh, keeping a healthy amount of fat-free mass, for example. Right. So you would be an advocate of somebody who's trying to lose body fat- ... uh, that exercise is probably a good activity? Yeah. Uh, absolutely. I- it's good anyway. In that context, here's the benefits I would think of for somebody trying to lose weight with exercise. I would say, I mean, I will say, I don't think you're gonna get much movement on the bathroom scale with exercise. And that's not just my work, that's decades of work trying to do exercise interventions for people to lose weight, and I think that's pretty clear. Yep. Uh, you know, you can do an, uh, a year's worth of exercise and the expected weight loss as I understand it is about five pounds. That's probably, you're probably in the neighborhood. Yeah. On average. Uh, so, you know, if you are overweight by more than that (laughs) right? Then, then exercise is gonna be a small part of the solution for you. Right. Um, I think the bigger benefits of exercise are it reg- i- it's a regulatory activity, right? Yep. It gets your body kind of working together the way it's supposed to work. We're, we are an active species, and when you take that away, all, things fall apart. Yep. So what is then the other side of the equation? Like, what is the exercise not doing, uh- ... again, if we're, let's just say we're-We're only gonna classify this in the perspective of caloric burn. There's psychological well-being and focus and moods. Okay, sure- ... all that is true and positive. We're in agreement. Exercise is great. Physical activity is great. Yes. If we're only looking at that calorie part of the equation for body composition, what is exercise not doing that people think it is doing? It's not pushing you into an e- energy deficit where you're burning more than you're bringing in. It's not pushing you there as, anywhere near as much as you think it is, would be my guess. Uh, and the bigger lever for changing body composition is gonna be diet. Um, you know, and so that's whether you can... And that's where, you know, I think people do have a big broad range of possibilities. Maybe low carb helps you regulate calorie intake. Sure. Maybe, you know, we don't have to have any magic around insulin. You, you could just imagine that a low carb diet might be a good way to keep your, you from overeating kind of thing. Yeah. Um, but no, I don't think exercise has the impact on total calories burned and therefore energy deficits the way that we're often sold it as having. Let, let's put some numbers behind it. Sure. Uh, you, you could give some examples here, but if, if it helps, you can walk us through, um, the additive versus constrained- Sure, sure. ... stuff that you've put us together, but- ... i- if I burn, let's say, two to 400 calories in a, in a workout- Mm-hmm. And it doesn't matter. Let's just say it's an accurate measure, right? Yeah, yeah. Who, who cares? That's a reasonable number for people to burn in exercise. You're not probably burning th- a thousand or 1,200 very often. Right. That too. Yeah. It can happen. Some people, like... But on average, the person going for a run, exercising, lifting weights, doing a- ... a class at a gym, probably two to 400, 500 is, is probably a more realistic number, right? That's right. That's right. I mean, one way to think about that is, uh, uh, as a rule of thumb, 50 calories to walk a mile, 100 calories to run a mile. Okay. Yeah, so- And that's just because of insufficiencies there, right? Yeah, that's... Walking is just cheaper than running. Um, and my, it's bi- biomechanically more efficient. And so, um, you know, if you're gonna do... If you go on a four-mile run, you can expect you burned about 400 calories as a rule of thumb. Yeah. And that's a 30 to 45-minute activity for sort of most people. Mm-hmm. All right. So, we set the stage there. If I'm burning 400 calories... May- may- maybe we'll use 500, whatever makes math easier. Yeah. Why am I not then after a week, seven days, seven times five, that should be 3,500 calories. Yes. That should be my pound of fat. How are you trying to tell me, Dr. Pontzer- ... that I'm not losing that pound of fat if I didn't change my energy intake? That's exactly right. So, well, first of all, I'll say that for that first week or so, you might. You might see that initial, uh- On the scale, you mean. ... on the s- on the bathroom scale change. Um, but what's happening is, uh, over time... And again, we're still trying to figure out how this all works, so I'm not gonna tell you that we have it all sorted out. Um, over time, we know when you do these exercise interventions, if I measure your total calories burned per day, when I check in on you in a couple of months, in a year, you think you're burning 3,500 calories a week extra than you were at baseline, but you are not. We know this. You're burning maybe just half that or maybe a third of that, so maybe some people are burning the same as they were at baseline. We see that. Uh, and so your body's making these adjustments, and that's why you're not losing a pound a week, because you're not actually burning 3,500 c- extra calories a week. Eventually, your body adjusts that and, and reduces it. The other thing is, it's very hard not to eat the calories you burn. That is also just true. Sure. Uh, and so, you know, you say, "What if I keep energy intake the same?" Yep, that's right, if you do. Very hard to do. Okay. What is exactly changing? Um, you can use mechanism here or numbers, whatever is e- a best way- ... for you to explain this. But when you say, "My body is adjusting-" Yeah. ... what is adjusting to keep that total number the same? So, we're looking into this now, and, uh, we have a, a, a meta-analysis we're working on in my lab, because people have done these intervention studies now since the early 2000s, uh, where we, you know... You give somebody a dose of exercise. I know exactly how much, how many calories per week I've dosed you with. I watch you do it, and then I follow you for months or maybe o- over a year. And, um, typically, people are getting, uh, you know, something like you're talking, like, uh, maybe 2,000 calories a week, right? So, that's like adding 20 miles of running to your weekly schedule. Um, we measure them at baseline before the exercise. We measure them at week... uh, yeah, month six or maybe month 12. And what we're finding is that the average, uh, increase in expenditure is only about half or so of what we think you, we dosed you with. 1,000 instead of the 2,000. Yeah, exactly. Um, where is the en- e- energy coming out of? Perhaps there... In some studies we see a reduction in BMR, but that's not big. The bigger one seems to be perhaps in sleeping metabolic rate. So, if, if the study had a, a piece where they had somebody sleeping in a metabolic chamber overnight and could measure that at baseline and then in the intervention, we tend to see some changes in sleeping metabolic rate. Um, the other changes must be in, you know, the waking period of your expenditure. Now, you'd think, "Okay, well, they're just, they're being less physically active when they're not exercising." They're, you know, they're taking the bus to work instead of walking, something like that. Th- that doesn't seem to hold up, because we have accelerometry data with these folks. We know what their 24-hour movement looks like. Um, and the NEAT part of things doesn't seem to be changing the way that we would expect. So, there's something physiological happening, I think, um, like stress response, like immune f- like, that we're not capturing in BMR necessarily, but that is, is helping square the numbers. Okay. That's actually really interesting. I, I wasn't aware of that. Yeah. I was thinking of it, uh, very differently. Hmm. If what you're saying is their BMR... Uh, because again, let's go back to the total equation. What we're trying to figure out is what part of that equation is changing. And let's assume some percentage of people are in fact eating more and blah, blah, blah. But, uh, just as a thought exercise here, let's say that that is not a- the case at all. You got a couple of things that could be happening. One is we know energy expenditure in the same form and mode of exercise over time- Mm-hmm. ... will go down. So, you'll get more efficient. So, that five-mile run that used to burn 500 calories- ... now might burn 450 or 75 or 490. You can get some savings there. Yeah, yeah. Mm-hmm. Right? So, now you're getting s- some small amount of efficiency of movement. Sure. Yup. Okay, great. A few calories there. I doubt basal metabolic rate would go down right here. But what you're saying is it doesn't look like it does, maybe- Yeah. ... a few percent? We can break that one down, too. That's fun, because if, um... You know, the basal metabolic rate should be the kind of background stuff your body's doing to stay alive. I'm sedentary. I'm not breaking my muscles down every day with exercise, and my BMR is 1,000 calories a day, just to give a number. Now, I'm exercising all the time, my body's doing all this muscle repair, and I'm still 1,000 calories a day. That's interesting. Huh. Right? So, w- even when you don't see a change in BMR, I would just put that out there, it doesn't mean that your physiology hasn't changed. No. O- uh, that... So, this is exactly what I'm getting at. Right? So, um... But yes, that alone, right, it should... Your BMR should be going up. If you look- ... at the literature across every form or fashion, changing basal metabolic rate chronically- Mm-hmm. ... is a really hard thing to do- Oh, yeah. ... independent of basically one thing. There's only one thing I'm really aware of that will change your basal metabolic rate chronically. You can do a thousand things acutely, right? You could take some caffeine right now, like- ... but then it's gonna come right back down. Right? In fact, your work will suggest it'll probably go below baseline? Maybe. Yeah. That'd be fun to track. So, then it centers back out, right? Yeah, yeah. The only thing that I'm aware of that will actually chronically enhance basal metabolic rate is an increase in lean muscle mass. Yeah. That's right. And, you know, I think about... Uh, uh, we're often comparing across body sizes, so often we're kind of canceling that effect out- ... because we wanna say, "Well, yeah, you're, you had a higher expenditure because you're..." (laughs) Great. Uh, and so... And that's tacked onto what they were doing before, the week before. We have that measurement too. And, and sure enough, it's, it's real simple. You take 2,600 calories, you tack it onto what they were doing before, and they pretty much nail exactly what they were burning that first week. Yep. Go five months forward, do it again. And to your point, they are not back to sort of pre-race levels. You can't, not possible. No way. You can't, you can't adapt 2,600 calories. But they're below what you'd expect. They're below that simple let's add pre-race to race and then get our answer. They've... And, and the, the adjustment's about 600 calories a day. Okay. That's a lot. It is a lot. And so we think that's one way of asking what's the most the body could change, c- could sort of absorb? Mm-hmm. Um, and so that's... You know, o- one thing we talk about in that paper is maybe that's one estimate of that. That's the number. About 600 calories. So, you know, you could add 600 calories of exercise, you know, to your life, and maybe that would be the most you'd be able to kind of absorb and get back to something like pre-exercise levels. Yeah. Probably most... I, I don't know if that's normal or, or typical or whatever, but that's what we saw in that group. Yeah. So again, you're, you're just giving a broad number. It, uh, as you said multiple times now, and you've seen this in your work. Yes. For some people, that number is zero. That's true, yeah. Some people, it might be 1,000, right? I- i- it's gone to there, but what you're just saying is, like, it looks like, as an anthropologist, as someone who likes to think about the species- Yeah. ... that seems to be the number where if you train really, really, really hard, the caloric deficit that you could kind of hold on to for a long time from the exercise looks like it's capped at potentially around 600 calories. Is that, is that a fair, safe- Yeah. Sort of the ama- the amount... The maximum amount you could absorb, you could kind of jug- rejuggle in your budget is something like 600 calories based on that. Maybe that's a little bit high, but it's in, it's in that ballpark. It's not thousands of calories. And would it be fair to say that that marathon a day for five months is the highest caloric expenditure activity that you've studied? Personally, yes. But that's a fun one because, uh, when you look at that maximal expenditure... So they s- they did that for five months. Um, if you look at the Tour de France, it's a higher expenditure, but it's a shorter amount of time. Sure, yeah. You look at, uh, Kona Half Iron- uh, uh, Kona Triathlon, half day, even higher expenditure than Tour de France. And so you can begin to plot out this nice relationship between how long you can maintain something and what the maximal expenditure is. And that's become- something we're interested in, in as well. And, um, the analogy is like... The analogy is, is like running. You can sprint for 10 seconds- Yeah, yeah. Sure. ... but you can't keep that speed up for a marathon. And so we see that across days as well. You can burn a lot of cal-... You know, if you think about it as like multiples of your basal metabolic rate- Mm-hmm. ... you can ru- you can burn about 10 multiples of your BMR- Yep. That, that number- ... uh, for a day. That jives a lot. Yeah. But you come out to... So, you know, and the fun thing is that nine months, uh, pregnancy is the most expensive thing anybody's ever done for nine months. Right? So there's this fun kind of human biology story about how our, our metabolic limits are shaped by our athletic abilities, but also by our reproductive systems. Right? And so it's kind of a... It all fits in there. I can't let you get away with stopping right there. Okay. I have to ask more about this pregnancy thing. Yeah. If you were to look at the, the hunter-gatherer communities- Mm-hmm. ... right? Now, in your head and again you're imagining they're so physically active. Um, I certainly know, as an outdoorsman myself, a hunter myself, when I'm out there, um, it is... It feels like I'm burning 30,000 calories a day. Right? Right. Yeah. Like, you're just gone. So to frame this pregnancy thing more appropriately, when we start getting into some of these numbers, what is a hunter-gatherer burning throughout the day? It's clearly... Again, total number is the same- ... over here, but what is their physical activity? Is it 2,600 calories, like a marathon? Is it lower? And then what do these pregnancy numbers look like? So we can go, "Wow." Like- ... that... Without that context, I think it's gonna be hard for people to understand how that pregnancy thing is so wild. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, um, where to start? So, uh, Hadza men get, like, 19,000 steps a day. 19,000 steps, okay. So we're told here it gets 7,000 to 10,000, right? So they're getting, like- Twice that. ... probably double. Yeah. Uh, and they're actually doing it rather than we're just told to do it. (laughs) (laughs) Uh-huh. Uh, women are getting about 12,000 steps a day. Um, and then they... You know, often with a kid on their back, um, and th- the hard work it takes to kind of get food out of the... You know, often, like, they're digging into the ground to get wild tubers, that kind of stuff. So there's added work on top of the steps, but the walking's the big thing. Um, but to your point, so, you know, they're burning... Topline numbers are the same as, as you and me. Um, where does the... How does that all juggle out? Uh, a Hadza woman, because pregnancy is so expensive, we know from populations like the Hadza, women are having a kid - and this is without birth control and they, and they wanna have a big family, so they're not trying to re- regulate that - they're having a kid every two or four, two to four years. Right? Whereas in the US, a woman who's, who's healthy and well-nourished, you know, this is not recommended, but you could have... She could have a kid almost every year. That's... Her body could do that. Irish twins, yeah. Yeah. And so, you know, not recommended, j- real, real clear. But, uh, but that, that's because of the energy availability that's there to handle what is the most expensive thing the body can do, which is pregnancy. Okay. So what you're, you're kind of saying is, when you were talking about the, the virality and vert- fertility of the male side, perhaps the female side, because their expenditure is so high- Yeah. ... that perhaps something physiologically is, is intentionally lowering that fertility so that they don't have kids too often. Oh, yeah. Is that kind of what you're referring to? That's right. Yeah, the body is just- You don't know that directly. You didn't study that, but, like, that's kind of the thought trainer on here, right? Well, and... I mean, we kinda have a lot of... There's fun evidence about that. So if you take, uh... Other... In other populations where women are doing a lot of work to go get water every day. So these are populations in Ethiopia, I think, but also in Central America. Women are... One of their t- typical tasks in a typical day is to go and get water for the family. And it's a huge amount of work. You're walking a kilometer to get a whole lot of water, water's heavy, and you bring it back. Um, and then in a couple of these studies that are just wonderful little kind of natural experiments- ... you add a, a well in, in the village. And now mom doesn't have to walk to go get water anymore. And fast forward a couple of years and you're like, "Oh, family sizes got bigger and the time between kids got smaller." And that's because you've taken this, uh, activity cost and you've t- you've taken it out of their energy budget, and now the body is able to kind of recover after a pregnancy and be ready for the next pregnancy faster. Okay, makes sense. Um, it's not necessarily a... I'm assuming you're, you're equating for and all these studies overall sex activity and things like that. So it's not... Like, that's probably going down somewhat, but that's- ... not explaining all of this. That, that's right. That's right. And it's, it's, um... No, we... These are populations where people would love to have big families. Yeah. Um, and yeah. That's, that's... The issue is, uh, a v- you know, physiology, not behavior. Today's episode is sponsored by AG1. AG1 is a vitamin mineral drink with probiotics, prebiotics, and adaptogens. Initially, I was extremely skeptical of AG1, as I am with all supplement companies, but after months of discussions with their lead nutrition scientist and the general team at AG1, I've been impressed by AG1's commitment to sourcing the highest quality ingredients and constantly updating their formulas to have the right ingredients in the optimal amounts. By now, it is abundantly clear that the gut microbiome plays a critical role in everything from body composition to bone health to mental health. And the probiotics and prebiotics in AG1 help to promote a healthy gut microbiome, improve digestion, reduce food cravings, and increase short-chain fatty acids, which play a critical role in regulating metabolism and immune responses. It's for these reasons, and many others, that I personally take AG1 almost every day. Now, it's of course not a replacement for eating whole, healthy foods, but it is a great way to make sure that you're plugging in any gaps in your nutrition to improve your energy, bolster your immune system, and just generally help promote a healthy gut microbiome and more. If you'd like to try AG1-You can go to drinkag1.com/perform to receive five free travel packs plus a year's supply of vitamin D3+K2. Again, that's drinkag1.com/perform to receive five free travel packs plus a year's supply of vitamin D3+K2. Today's episode is also brought to you by Renaissance Periodization. If you wanna put on muscle through science-backed training programs, look no further than Renaissance Periodization. Renaissance Periodization guides users through effective and easy to follow strength training programs all through their Hypertrophy app. These programs are designed by the absolute best in the industry, including one of my favorite sports scientists and professional bodybuilders, Dr. Mike Israetel. You may recognize that name because I referenced him and his work countless times over the years. Whether you're looking to put on muscle, gain strength, or both, these programs will help you achieve your goals and have produced results in thousands of men and women. Renaissance Periodization also has a diet app that is backed by the latest science and innovation in the field of nutrition, and takes the complexity out of dieting, helping you achieve your ideal body composition. If you'd like to try Renaissance Periodization, go to rpstrength.com/perform to save up to $50 off your subscription. Again, that's rpstrength.com/perform to save up to $50 off of your subscription. So, getting back to the numbers then. You said, uh, like, what kind of are 12, 12,000 steps a day for the females- Mm-hmm. ... right? And, uh, what is this difference in, like, a Hadza female total daily energy expenditure, and then what happens, whether it's them or in non-hunter-gatherers- Yeah. ... like, what happens in terms of energy demand during pregnancy? During pregnancy. Yeah. So, a Hadza woman- That's quite the claim. This is the most expensive thing we'll ever do as a human, right? Yeah, yeah. Metabolically. For nine months. For nine months, right? So, a healthy human pregnancy costs about 75,000 calories. Total? Total. Okay. You spend most of that in the second and third trimester. Um, and, um, if you are a Hadza mom, you've gotta do that while also maintaining pretty high levels of physical activity. Uh, that does come down a little bit, just, you know, the mechanics of foraging when you're three, in your- Yep. ... third trimester I'm sure is hard. Sure. Uh, but, but yeah. So, um, I'm not sure how you wanna break it down, but that's, you know... So, okay, here's another fun thing, uh, and this is the kinda stuff you learn when you start moving your sort of field of, of investigation beyond a westernized, industrialized context and start looking at elsewhere at what human beat- diversity is all about. There are farming populations, um, a great study of, of, of farmers in Gambia. This is gonna sound like a real tangent, but it's not, I promise. Uh, y- you've got women who are working really hard doing agricultural work. Their, uh, total energy expenditures are still kind of more or less the same as everybody else's, but on the higher end, let's say. Higher end of normal. They measured them through pregnancy, and they don't change, right? They're able to maintain, uh, i- in that context where food is a bit limited and... but activity levels are high, and mom's e- already kind of pushing her limits probably even before pregnancy, um, it doesn't get pushed much higher during pregnancy. And that was a study done in the late '80s, early '90s. Um, and so it seems like, you know, at... if, if mom... the most mom can do for that nine months is pregnancy. And even if you add physical activity on top of that, there doesn't seem to be a lot of room to even move beyond that, that ceiling. And we got... the... I'm presuming you have to partition that to the child. That's the point, right? Yeah. That's right. So the mo- so the baby gets protected, baby is healthy, and mom takes the hit. Yeah. And if you were to contrast that to these marathon numbers- Yeah. ... Tour de France numbers and stuff, like, what? You said 75,000 total calories- ... for normal pregnancy. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, how much is energy expenditure on total differ between a pregnant female versus a non-pregnant female? So, a normal daily energy expenditure would be about 1.7 METS. Yep. Something like that. Uh, in pregnancy, that'll go up to about 2.2 METS in the highest expenditures o- of a sen- for a sedentary population. Um, we're s- trying to figure out right now if that changes if you, you know, have active moms in the US, right? We don't know the, what the results are on that yet. But that's the, the, the expectation is that that 2.2 METS for nine months is really the, the maximum of what the body can do. And that is, that is an enormous amount. Again, th- that is more than this marathon running thing. Hmm. This is more than Tour de France stuff. Like, this is a really big number, right? Well, so if you... The guys who ran across LA to DC, they were at 3.5 METS for that five months. There you go. There's your context, right? Male versus female, so should be generally higher anyways. And running a marathon a day- Yeah. 3.5 METS. And then Tour de France, you can get up close to 5 METS, but it's only 28 days. Sure, right. Right? So that's, that's the trade-off, is, like, duration for, for, uh, maximum expenditure. So it's almost like you're halfway between here, right? So you're not short month Tour de France. You're not five months- ... for this running thing. You could run a marathon every day for nine months and not burn as many calories as you would having a kid. No, no, no, I don't think that's right. I think- Are they close? Uh, I think a marathon a day is still more, but you couldn't... You, uh... How about this? For nine months, we think the maximum a body can do is about 2.5 METS as max. Moms, think about this. Moms burn 2.2, but then they have to also eat extra to gain weight. That's right. So, this same study of, of duration versus maximal expenditure, just to kind of re- reset ourselves, the expectation is that the longer you go, the lower that metabolic ceiling becomes. At about nine months, that's where moms are. Um, and that it kind of flattens out, and the long-term ceiling for everybody is about 2.5 METS- Yeah. ... is the expectation from this study. And that means that whether you wanna be an ultra-marathon runner training for your next big thing, or a cyclist or whatever, or you just wanna be super fit and exercise a lot, you're still capped- ... long term at about 2.5 B- BMR. And that's the same cap for that mom's under, basically. Mm-hmm. Right? So that's the... That's what we're talking about here. Yeah, uh, it m- it makes intuitive global general sense. Right? If that number shakes up. So, in the case of something like pregnancy, because you're gonna preserve it for the developing child, that means mom's physiology, as you said earlier, is, is gonna take the hit. Same thing happening with the overtraining situation. Yeah, it's the same juggling, right? It's the same over-juggling kind of thing going on. Yep. So that means your immune system or your endocrine system, some metabolically active part of your life is, is going to have to go down. Hopefully that it recovers. But if it doesn't, this is why you see people getting more sick when they're overtrained. Yes. This is why their libido goes down. This is why sleep and other things go down. It's in large part because of this energy. You can talk about it from the hormone perspective- Right. ... but the hormones are a response. Yes, yes. They're the signal because of this energy flux being off, right? That's how I see it, yep. If you look at the folks that pay a lot of attention to what's called RED-S. Oh, right. Yeah. I'm sure you're familiar with that, right? Mm-hmm. Um, how does that fold into this equation? Maybe just walk us through a little bit, like, what RED-S is. I know you're not a dietician. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So take care of it. So, uh, and let's see if I can get the acronym right. REL- Relative Energy Deficiency Syndrome. Yeah, there you go. I'm a simple man. And in my mind, RED-S is, like, is just kind of another way of talking about overtraining syndrome- Yep. ... basically. It's the energy side. It's the energy side of it, that's right. Uh, and, you know, one way to think about RED-S is you're not getting enough energy in. But the other piece of it is you can... There are studies where they supplement athletes and that helps, that's great. But you can... There are ath- athletes who won't respond to that- Self-made, yeah. ... as I understand it. And I think it's because... My, my suspicion is it's because they've actually hit the energy ceiling cap and they really can't put more energy through their bodies. They- they're not able to h- to do that- Yup. ... to take advantage of those extra calories. ... um, and so that's the expenditure cap of it. Yeah. And it's typically, when we talk about reds, we're talking about female. Mm-hmm. Right? This is, uh, it's a way to describe what happens when f- females tend to be really active and oftentimes get really low amounts of body fat- Yep. ... body mass. And then they have a whole host of things like amenorrhea and, I mean, you name your- Yeah. ... debilitating bones being more brittle and breaking- ... and things like that. And so typically, you're gonna do a combination of two things, or one at least. You're either gonna reduce physical activity- Right. ... or you're gonna- Increase the intake. Yep. Inca- or both, right? Yeah. Yep, yep. Which is your typical treatment. I- i- there's more to it, but- That's right. That's right. ... it's actually- But if you think about these energy caps on that, you know, what i- what is the ceiling that I'm working under, I think one pragmatic thing to take away from that is, um, if the supplementation is not helping, it's not because you're doing it wrong. No. It might be because you're at the ceiling. And then you take some training away and you might get a kind of less is more outcome- ... where you're actually healthier and able to maintain higher overall workloads because you're not dealing with downtime from being sick or being injured or something like that. Yeah. So in that particular case or in other cases, when people have felt like their metabolism is slowing down- Mm-hmm. ... right? This, uh, a- and I've seen this in plenty of, uh, our high performing athletes- Yeah. ... and non-athletes we deal with, where legitimately they used to do the same workout before, eat the same things in the same- ... relative amounts- ... and all of a sudden progression of weight is, is different, right? Um, again, you'll colloquially call this, like, my metabolism is slowing down. Right. You and I both know that's not what's- Your metabolic speed is not changing. Um, clearly this is a total energy expenditure issue. What do I do about that? What do we actually know scientifically? Can you raise- Hmm. ... this number back up? Uh, if so, how? Um, I- I'll feed you a little bit- ... before we go on this one. The answers you'll often hear are things like, well, increase lean muscle mass because- ... muscle mass is active and it burns a bunch of calories. What do we actually know about the ability to... again, it's not the right term, but how people were gonna hear this- ... you know, raising our metabolism like that- ... so I don't feel like I have to eat 1,000 calories a day, which is really- ... really hard to not gain weight? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Ugh. I mean, this is... that's, that's the big question. Be a nutritionist. Be a dietician for me, please. Be a... so yes, fine. First of all, I would say feeling like your metabolic rate is slowing down doesn't necessarily mean your metabolic rate is slowing down. And so, um, you know, we've measured, for example, uh, daily energy expenditures in non-athletes, so these are just typical folks, but from about, you know, early 20s till about late 50s, people's energy expenditures, daily energy expenditures, are not really... we don't see, like, a slowdown in middle age. It doesn't hap- I mean, honestly. Look- Say it again. Yes. Your, your metabolism- You're, you're g- (laughs) ... does not slow down in middle age. And look, I'm- What? ... I'm 47 and I feel like it did too. (laughs) Yeah. But it doesn't. I mean, you know, those are the data. You and your science lies, Herman. And here's another fun one, you know, this is another great example. It's like the Hadza data where you've got the data and you've got your preconceived model and you have to choose. Mm-hmm. Because you don't get both, right? You will see pretty routinely now, people will talk about things like bone health- ... people will talk about muscle size- ... muscle strength. Uh, people will talk about things like HRV- Hm. ... that these things all will decline with age. VO2 max- ... cardiovascular fitness. Sure. Sure. All of those examples have been now shown to not actually decline- Ha. ... as long as activity remains the same. What you're also trying to tell me, this evil lie- ... is that you're saying metabolism does not slow down with age on, on- On average. ... on average per se. Yeah, that's right. Yeah. We have, you know, this is a study of 6,000 and some people. Justify yourself, sir. Thank you. I will. Uh, uh, so we have this... it's actually a really fun science story. Uh, we have a big international consortium now of people sharing doubly labeled water measurements across studies. This is the... is this the global human metabolism database? Yeah. The doubly labeled water database or something like that. There you go. Yeah. Yes. Um, and so you've got my lab and a bunch of others, um, all sharing data. It's a really fun science story that way. Um, and we've got... and now it's, I think, it's 10 or 11,000 measurements of people from eight days old up to people in their 90s. So this is a full snapshot of human metabolic diversity. Men and women, active, inactive- Absolutely. ... healthy, diseased, whatever, right? Yes, yes, yes. Everybody. Um, and so we can really say something that we, you know, that we can stand behind about what, for example, what, what does metabolic rate look like over the, the arc of a lifetime? You published this already, right? That's right. That's right. Yeah, yeah. That's... uh, it's a 2021 paper. Life- lifelong metabolism paper- Mm-hmm. ... or whatever. Yep. That's right. Uh, and so, yeah, there's some really fun stuff. When you're born, you know... uh, well, first of all, one thing that you get right away, which is kind of obvious, is that bigger people burn more calories. Okay. Yeah. Body size, right. Body size. Uh, men and women, when you correct for body composition, burn the same. So- Again, you're gonna have to say that one again. When you- Yeah. ... particularly when you correct for lean mass. Yep. That's right. So a typic- you know, a 150-pound man and a 150-pound woman, um, the man might burn more calories on average because they'll... uh, men tend to carry less body fat for a given size. But now let's s- ask the question differently. 150-pound man, 150-pound woman, both the same body fat percentage, imagine, the expected expenditure's the s- the e- the same. You would, in looking at those people- ... you would think, in that case, the woman is a lot healthier, leaner, because at the same body composition, a woman will look a lot physically leaner- Hm. ... than a male j- just because normal. But when you equate for those two things- Yes. ... their total expenditure is you would not be able to be like, that's male, that's female. That's right. That's right. Uh, I mean, it comes back to this 37 trillion cells doing their jobs. And when it's the same composition of cells, the same fat-free mass, the same fat mass, they're all kind of doing their thing, things like sex differences disappear from your results. You don't see it. Okay. Uh, there's a whole bunch of stuff I wanna ask about this in terms of are we then thinking about human capacity, human systems', um, adaptability- Mm-hmm. ... as, you know, your book, your new book is- ... uh, wrong. But before that, to finish our, our little story here- Yeah. ... so we don't see in this giant database now using... it's all doubly labeled water. That's right. Not- And I, I will say that, that we get the same pattern with basal metabolic rates. So we have two modalities giving us the same answer, so it isn't like, oh, this measurement- I see. ... has a problem. J- just to be clear, because that's always what... the follow-ups- It's actually su- Right. That's more interesting, right? 'Cause now you're using two different methodologies- ... for that same measure and they're both at least aligning- ... overlapping in a pretty high correlation. Yes, yes, yes. Okay. So no differences between the sexes. Generally no differences past, uh, what, probably age 20, 25? When is that- Yeah. I mean, you kind of... you know, biology doesn't take hard corners, right? Th- things kind of mellow out. So around 20 to 25, somewhere in there, you hit kind of your, your adult rate- Yep. ... and then you're s- you're just rock steady until late 50s, early 60s, something like that, and then it begins to decline again, which is interesting. Mm-hmm. 'Cause we know that that's, that later age, uh, is when things like diabetes risk, heart disease risk, dementia risk, all these things kind of inflect up- ... after 60 and your metabolic rate's inflecting down. And th- these are all body mass, body composition controlled, so it isn't just sarcopenia, 'cause that happens too. Um, and so I think we're seeing cells- Loss of muscle. Yeah. ... slow down. Yes. The, we're seeing cells slow down. We're seeing the body slow down and that's related to, I think, um, this increased disease risk. All right. So I got one question on the each side of the age spectrum. Sure, sure, sure. Uh, I know you got some new work... I think you got a new, uh, NSF grant for doing a bunch of stuff with adolescent girls. Mm-hmm. Right? So you've got some experience in the, the children's side of the equation- Yeah, yeah. ... as well as now past 50. So two-part question. One of them is-How much higher is, generally, energy expenditure when it is peaked, right? Yeah. I, uh, I presume it peaks at puberty or close to it. Oh. It peaks at... Size-corrected expenditures peak when you're one years old. That's your- Boom. You- We've all peaked too soon. Yeah. (laughs) That's it. (laughs) So, you're... You lied to us earlier. It does go down with age. After one, it goes down. That's right. You're right. To 20. Yeah. Exactly. One to 20. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh, yeah. A little baby, you know, one, one-year-old infant, um, is... Their cells are just super busy, right? And you can see that in the calories they're burning. Now, look, they're also tiny, so total calories a day is not impressive. Right. But when you correct for body size, it's 50% higher. Yeah. It's a lot. And if you could sh- if you could shrink an adult down to that size, the baby's got, burning 50% more calories than the adult. Yeah. Well, I mean, it's turning over its entire skeleton in a year. All those- Like e- everything is, is really ramped up. Yes. Yes. Yes. But when you get into your teenage years, how much higher is that expenditure as... You know, whether it's teen or tw- whatever that peak. Yeah. You're coming down, you're coming... And so, you know, it's sort of a, a, a sort of a glide path. And so, you know, by the time you're 10, you're probably around 20% higher- 20%. ... than you would be as an adult. And then slowly, it's gonna kind of come down. Um, that's, that's the kind of ballpark. 20 to 30% higher. So, when your teenage kid comes home and eats the entire fridge, yeah, that's real. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. (laughs) And that's because, you know, their metabolic rate's just higher just because their bo- their still developing. And do we know what part of the metabolic equation that's coming from? Is it all of it? Do we know? So, we... Again, we see the same pattern in BMR. That doesn't really answer the question 'cause your BMR is all your organs playing around. Yeah. So, we don't know which organs are doing what. So, the brain is super expensive. Um, even in an adult, the brain burns 300 kilocalories a day. Um, whether you're dumb or not- (laughs) ... as I like to remind my students. Actually, probably more if you're more dumb, right? It just feels that way. More dumber. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, so, you know, um, when you're a kid, it's probably even higher than that because not only is your brain doing its expensive thing of thinking and- It's developing. ... regulating. It's developing. Yeah. Uh, and so all the organs are probably doing that. We don't know... Like, uh, next, another frontier kind of thing to do- Yeah. Well- ... is figure all that out. ... I ask that because we colloquially will hear things like, "Well, oh, man. Yeah. I played all these sports as a kid and so I was lean, but now I'm not playing sports anymore." And so people will tend to justify that 15 to 20-pound gain in their early 20s- ... as, "Well, I just stopped playing sports anymore," and then they rush back into the gym. Don't often see a lot of results- ... and then partake in- ... sedentary activity for the next 20 years. That's right. So, how are we thinking about that incorrectly? Yeah. Also, I mean, I think that the higher expenditure that you had as an 18-year-old, you were at the wonderful tail end of this elevated metabolic rate that you get for free- ... just from d- your development. Um, you hit 21, 22, 23, and that goes away, you know, and that usually coincides with a lot of life changes. You get your first job, et cetera, et cetera. It all collides. Um, but yeah. I think the big bump that you thought was 'cause you were playing baseball is actually because... Maybe the bigger bump is actually just 'cause your body was still developing. Yeah. So, it's almost really a combination. You're le-... Generally, people are way less physically active post-high school. For sure. Yeah. They're probably also maintaining the same nutritional habits. Yes. (laughs) Intake. So, it's, it's all of those things. Yeah. That's right. That's right. And then, you know... Look, stress is an issue. Sleep is an issue. All these things that push us- ... to eat more. Yeah. Right? I mean, all of a sudden, I'm stressed out all the time, and I find myself eating more than I did bef-... You know, the things like that. Of course. Yeah. And, um, that, that more than some kind of global change in your me- metabolic rate in your 30s is, is kind of what's, I think, really pushing things around for people. Yeah. Then let's go to the other end of the age spectrum. Yes, sir. Now, what happens? And I am... You know, it... Okay, well, I'll say this. It's fair to say, if you want to think about it this way, your metabolism slows down past 20. Okay? Mm-hmm. They have that big bump when we're 10 or 15, 12 years old, whatever. It does start to glide down, as you're mentioning. It levels out mid-to-early 20s. It holds on for the next 30 or 40 years. So, you can blame those pounds you gained as a 20-year-old on it. Sure. But you can't gain those pounds you gained as a 40-year-old- Yes. ... most likely on it, but it will now start to decline, even as you're saying when you correct for maintaining muscle mass. Right. Which we know is harder past 50s. Yeah. Really, really hard, right? So, let's just say you were able to maintain that thing. Do we know what is happening both mechanistically as well as, again, what part of the equation- ... post-50, if it's not- ... loss in muscle? Because if you were to ask me right now- ... I would say, I bet it doesn't happen as long as you hold your muscle. Oh. Yeah. That would've been my guess. Yeah. So, um, I don't know that it's that easy. Uh- Damn it. Yeah. I know. (laughs) Because the... Again, this is paired with basal metabolic rate measurements- Science is supposed to be easy. Is- is... It's more fun when it's not, but I agree. It's not... Yeah. Uh, the stories are simple. You're a teacher. You're a storyteller. Yeah. Supposed to be easy. Come on, doc. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, so it could just be, you know, that you lose muscle mass and your metabolic rate goes down for that. But we correct for that, and we still see it. Oops. Okay. Next explanation. Um, if you do basal metabolic rate measurements along with this, which we have in that same dataset, you see that, you know, for a given fat-free mass, so for a given organ sizes, you... Whole organ size and muscle mass, the same. Metabolic, basal metabolic rates even at rest are lower pa- post 60. And so the only way you can get that mechanistically, uh, is for the cells themselves to be slowing down. Um, now you're asking a different question, I think. Mm-hmm. Related but different, which is if I'm physically active, and one thing that'll happen is I'll keep my muscle mass up maybe. But the other thing that might happen is, um, again, exercise is a regulatory behavior. Yup. Right? And I'm signaling to my body to keep going and, you know, it... I don't... That's a very hand-wavy way to talk about it. But there's something about that regulation of activity that might keep all your cells more active. Yeah. I... Uh, okay. I'd love it. Let's test that. I mean, I think that's possible. Uh, I don't think we would know that for sure right now. Generally, we associate aging with inefficiency at the cellular level. Yup. Right? So, you're losing either actual cell mass. Uh, things are dying. Mm-hmm. Breaking off, going down, or they're becoming hyper-inefficient, more leakage. Which I would think would actually then make energy expenditure higher. What am I missing here? I think you could have two things happening. You can have inefficiencies and just lower output overall. Right? I mean, again, the only way you can make the math work on these measurements of expenditure, and you get it from both modalities, so it's not just a methods thing- ... is that it has to be the case that a liver ce-... You know, uh, let's just say, to pick an organ, I don't know if this is the right one. A liver cell in a 70-year-old burns fewer calories every day than the liver cell in a 40-year-old. And there's... It kind of has to be that. Um, now is it, is it the liver, or is it a different organ? And how... What's the... That's the interesting set of questions. Yeah. But in... One of them- ... is... It's gonna have to be one or a combination. Something has to be changing. You think this is a function of looking at, I would not say exclusively, but primarily cross-sectional data- Hmm. ... uh, versus having, you know, more longitudinal thi- things like that. Is that- No. That's a f- that's a fair point. I mean, these are big cross-sectional studies. Um, I don't think you could... I, I think there has to be a longitudinal signal in there to see the big data trends that we see. Um, but it is true for all sorts of obvious reasons that we don't have data from somebody who's 40 and then 50 and then 60 and then 70. We, um... That would be a study that's still happening and started 40 years ago, right? We don't have that yet. Yeah. But s-... I mean, jeez, we should, right? I agree. We started, right? I agree. I agree. And, and we're, um... That would be something we'd really, be really interested in, is sort of, you know, gets you at 55, gets you at 60, gets you at 65, and see. What is the longest that we do have? Do you know? Do we have any two-year studies? Do we have any five-year studies- Yeah. ... that have- We do. We have two and five-year studies here and there. Small ones, uh, but not-... that I know of in that critical post-60 age group. The ones I know of are in people's sort of, you know, prime adult years. And that's interesting. There, you find individual differences are pretty static. So, if I measure you today and I see that you have a high metabolic rate, and I measure you again in two years, I'll see that you have a high metabolic rate again. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. And it kinda... It even, even independent of what you report anyway is lifestyle change. If you're slow, you're slow. If you're fast, you're fast. Now, the good news is, it doesn't seem to have a big impact on whether you've gained weight or lost weight in the intervening years. So, that's another kind of myth, right? People think, "Oh, my metabolic rate's high. That's why I keep the weight off." Probably what you are experiencing is a better relationship with food- Uh-huh. ... that you aren't being pushed to overeat the same way that somebody who says, "Oh, I have a slow metabolic rate," is maybe more food-focused and is... has a different relationship with food. And is, is having a hard time that way. It might not be meta-... In fact, it's not metabolic rate. I'll say that. It's... Right? And the way... Here's, here's my metaphor for that. You walk into a bar, you wanna play some darts, right? And they've got the dart boards hung on the wall and you're throwing your darts at the wall. You don't know if that dart board is hung a little high or hung a little low. You just know you're trying to hit it. And that's what your body's doing with expenditure and intake. It doesn't know if you happen to have a little bit of a high metabolic rate or a little bit of a low metabolic rate. It's just trying to balance the budget and hit the center of the bullseye, right? So, if I s-... If I came and said, "Oh, yeah. Your, your dart boards are hung a little high," I'm still gonna find that the darts are stuck around the, the center- Yeah. ... because people are still aiming at the center. They're not aiming at what they... At, you know, some global middle dart board height. They're naming it that one, and that's how your body works. You're aiming at that metabolic rate. And so, if you're high, you're high, that's fine. And... But, but missing the bullseye and gaining or losing a little bit of weight is gonna be independent of if the guy next door is aiming at a slightly lower dart board. Yeah. So, if you take the person who says, "I eat all the time." "I'm constantly stuffing my face. I never gain weight." And you contrast that with a person who feels like they're doing the opposite, what you're saying is most likely, that energy intake for the person that feels like they're stuffing their face is probably not as high as they think? Yes. And vice versa, the person who says that they're not eating a lot, uh, doesn't feel that they are, probably is eating more than they think. And that's, you know... We've known that for a long time, that people under-report. Yeah. Sometimes they over-report, but usually they under-report, um, and there's all sorts of obvious reasons about that. That's not intentional. Nobody's... You know. No, no, no. I'm not saying people are lying. That's not the point. You just... People have a hard time tracking what they do. Yeah. I would say, in my experience, the people who feel like they're the former, the "I can eat anything I want," they're- ... they'll... They end up going through really long periods of not intaking food. So, they'll be like, "Oh, yeah. I ate a whole pizza last night." And you're like- ... "Oh, great." And then they had a yogurt for breakfast. Right. And then they had a lunch they had, and you're like, "Oh." So, actually- Exactly. ... it... You feel- ... like you're feasting all the time- ... where the other folks are way more consistent about their food intake. Mm-hmm. So, it feels like... And clearly, there's more to it- ... than this. But, um, that's been my experience of being like- ... they actually don't eat that much. You just go through waves- ... of- Yeah. That makes sense. ... eating enough. Yeah. Totally. Do people tend to be more physically active, whether it's exercise or activity in periods of short caloric surplus? So, if I eat a whole bunch- Oh, that's interesting. ... more this weekend, am I gonna be more active next week? Huh. I don't know any data on that. That, that's a nice prediction. You could imagine sort of evolutionary reasons that those mechanisms would exist. Yep. Uh, good question. Yeah. I don't know. 'Cause then we don't know the opposite, I assume, as well, right? So, if you pull calories a little bit this week- Yeah. ... uh, are you gonna be... 'Cause you hear people say these things, right? "Man-" "... if I pull calories down, I just... I, uh, I don't move." That one seems, you know, the fatigue response and, you know, and esp-... We know that if you really crash diet, your basal metabolic rate can go down as a response. Oh, sure. Yeah. But you're not talking about... You're talking about something smaller than that. Um, yeah. I... Gosh, I don't know. It seems like a really easy one to measure, and maybe people have done it, but I can't think of a study that's looked at it. Today's episode is sponsored by Eight Sleep. Eight Sleep makes smart mattress covers with cooling, heating, sleep tracking, and more. I've personally been sleeping on an Eight Sleep mattress cover for years now, and it's absolutely glorious. I love it so much that I hate traveling away from home because it means I can't sleep on my Eight Sleep Pod 4 Ultra. As you'll hear me talk about endlessly on this podcast, there really is nothing you can do that makes more of an impact on your health and performance than getting tremendous sleep. And getting great sleep requires having your body temperature drop a couple of degrees at night, and that's hard to do on your own. The Eight Sleep has been a game-changer for me because I run hot at night, or as my wife calls it, I'm a furnace. If I don't have something like an Eight Sleep helping me cool down, I'll wake up in the middle of the night overheating and not feeling great. This is something I've also found in many of the people that I coach, especially those who are really physically active. The Eight Sleep Pod 4 Ultra has two times more cooling power, yet is virtually silent, and it has high-fidelity sleep tracking and even has snoring detection that will automatically lift your head a few degrees to improve airflow and stop your snoring. If you'd like to try Eight Sleep, go to eightsleep.com/perform to save $350 off your Pod 4 Ultra. Eight Sleep currently ships to the US, Canada, the UK, select countries in the EU, and even Australia. Again, that's eightsleep.com/perform. I'm gonna take what feels like a pretty big left turn. Okay. And I'll say it this way. I generally have had more disdain for the world of anthropology than I have had love. (laughs) All right. Okay, okay. It's not the work of the scientists. It's generally the, the media and the interpretation- ... is, is not your guys' fault, right? Mm-hmm. What I'm getting at is the natural fallacy. Oh. Yeah. And so, I always have a hard time getting through things like, okay, what can we learn from anthropology? What can we learn from looking at culture and looking at ancient humans and how things (soft thump) ... that matters without making the natural fallacy? Yeah. Uh, I, I feel like you've done a really good job of that now, in our conversation as well as over your career. Mm-hmm. Um, so how, how do we think about these things properly, getting the best out of studying ancestors- ... and anthropology, and if, if that's even biological anthropology- Yeah. No, that's- ... and then not making natural fallacy? No, that's right. So, I think the value... Let's start it this way. The value of looking at a broad sweep of cultures, in general, is that you're gonna capture more of what our bodies can do and more of how our bodies respond to changes and differences in lifestyle- ... and ecology and environment, all these things we're interested in. But we only have a really narrow view when we only look within the US, for example, or within, you know, uh, urban centers in the, in the industrialized world, right, where most research happens, by the way. Um, so I think looking across cultures give us a real sense of, of what real biological diversity looks like, how, uh, interactions with environment look like, how that interplay happens. And then, the evolutionary perspective is, it gives you a kind of working hypothesis, a working model f- for, for expecting how the body will work, how it will respond, what the body is trying to do. The body is not trying... You know, your, your body isn't evolved to make you look great for the beach. Your body isn't evolved to lift... you know, to, to be a massive bodybuilder necessarily, or whatever it is that you're trying to accomplish. W- understanding what the body's kind of organized toward, the organizing theory of the body, which is evolutionary success, I think helps you make sense of the physiology. Why does my body adapt to physical activity the way it does? Well, because we are a physically active species and have been for two million years. Um, and so, you know-... uh, w- our entire physiology is organized around that. You take that away, you have problems, right? So, I, I think that's the advantage. It isn't to say, "Oh, a hunter gatherer lives this way, therefore I'm going to cosplay like a hunter gatherer-" (laughs) "... and be healthy." I mean, that's silly, right? Right. That's goofy. I'll give you a couple of direct examples. Yeah. I think that was great, by the way. That was actually really helpful. When you hear justification of a particular methodology, it doesn't matter, diet, exercise- ... psychological, uh, emot- relationships. Like, you, you pick how humans interact. You could fall back to basically any time point, find some previous part of our history in which people did it- ... this way and justify it, right? This is the natural fallacy of, uh, I skipped over. I know you know, but is the idea that just because it is natural, then therefore that is correct. Right. Yeah. Right? And there are a lot of things that are natural that we don't wanna do anymore, right? Yes. We don't have to list them. But you can imagine ancient humans did some activity in a certain way that we don't wanna do anymore as a culture. You see? That's not okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Right? Fill in the blanks, folks, if you, if you want there. Cannibalism's a fun one. Okay, great, right? (laughs) Yeah, you can find a popula- y- there's documented evidence in the past of people, different populations, uh, who practiced cannibalism. Now, why and how, those details are an interesting question. But, um, nobody would advocate now that that's a great thing we oughta be doing. I'm sure somebody would. Yeah. I'm sure somebody would, right? The world's a crazy place. But most folks are not gonna wanna do that. So, if the natural fallacy exists, then why does it matter at all that we study all people? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I mean, again, that, that gets me back to this diversity thing. Because if you wanna know what, uh, a really physically active day in, day out lifestyle looks like or, uh, you know, how our bodies juggle those demands, well then let's go and ask that question. Let's go find populations that are really physically active. Let's w- find ones that are sedentary. Let's find ones that eat a really high carb diet. Let's find ones that eat a really low, you know, high meat diet. Um, and that's a way of asking about that diversity. I think you also learn some other interesting things. You learn about local adaptations in some cases that you otherwise would, would miss. Um, but, uh, but I, I think that's the advantage is, um, in terms of, in terms of when we br- wanna bring it back home to a health context, right? What we're gonna learn about how we're gonna fix our own lives today. That's it. You're learning about these sort of, th- the diversity of human experience. And you can pick and choose the lessons from that, not in a lateralistic fallacy kinda way, but in a, hey, they've tried it that way for... and, and this is how they result. Th- this is how their body results from that. I can bring that home. Great example. Um, physical activity we know is important, uh, for lots of reasons. But like, how much should you get? Right? That's a fair question to ask. Mm-hmm. And it turns out that if you, um, look at how much, uh... This is just a fun little comparison. If you look at how much, uh, physical activity folks get, um, in a, a nice study that was done in, in Scotland. Uh, it's, uh, where was it? Glasgow. It's, it's gl- in Glasgow. These Glaswegian mail carriers... All right, this is a fun one. Uh, you have folks who are carrying the mail every day getting 17,000 steps a day. You have folks who are in the office sorting mail, and they're not getting the steps. And you ask, "Who has the best health outcomes?" And it's all National Health Services up in the UK, so it's all kind of controlled that way. The real big difference here is how active you are. The folks who are getting the s- the 17,000 steps a day are, turns out, really well protected against cardiovascular disease- Yeah. ... and all these things. Well, how d- how do we understand that? Well, it turns out, if you look at, you know, traditional groups around the world, that's kind of the sweet spot of where people are getting their activity. That's how much they're getting in a hunting and gathering context or a farming context. It matches up. And so, that's, you know... Not that those mail carriers were thinking, "Gosh, I wanna make sure I get as many"- Sure. ... "steps as a hunter gatherer today." Th- that's where we can learn something from another cultural context, you know, a non-industrialized context, and, and it helps make sense of the practical things we can do in our own lives here. We don't have to act like hunter gatherers. That's not the goal. The goal is to, to learn. Yeah. You and I are gonna focus on physiology- ... metabolism and exercise. Mm-hmm. Great. But you can find these same examples in cultural- ... in relationship, in how people interac-... Like- ... we're just gonna focus on this aspect of it. But I really think it's important that people extend that thinking out to this is all of how we behave as a species- ... that can go there. So, with the, uh... I don't know if that was stuff in the UK Biobank, but w- in the Glasgow, uh, example there- ... you're highlighting another positive role of physical activity and exercise- ... but just not from the caloric expenditure. Right? That... I mean, that's kind of what you're saying is- ... you're not denying and suggesting that so many people and so many (laughs) magazines- ... and articles have said that you're saying. There are plenty of physical activity benefits, it's just- 100%. ... perhaps not from the caloric expenditure side of the equation. That's right. Right, right. So, I just want to triple, quadruple down on what you don't, don't say. (laughs) Right. But getting back to this. How do we then decide which of these learnings from anthropology- ... that we choose to take, like physical activity, but then we don't choose to take the cannibalism one? Right. Well, uh, that gets to this, uh, question of, you know, biology can tell us how things work. Cultural studies can tell us the diversity of what possibility spaces are. You know, but then it, it all ends up... You still have the hard decision to make yourself as in what, what are my principles- Yeah. ... what are my, uh, you know, guiding, uh, ideas, and, and how do I bring this into my own life? So, um, that's why you're probably not gonna bring cannibalism in. (laughs) But you might wanna exercise. Speak for yourself. Yeah, fine. Uh, you know, and I thi- I think there's also a broader importance here, and that is I think we reduce a lot of how we study the natural world and study ourselves down to what's the next thing I'm gonna do to, to, to tweak my life, to give myself more energy, better health, whatever. Those are all important things to have. We should all want to maximize our time here, absolutely. But there's a broader question, which is, how do we understand the world? How do we understand ourselves? How do we understand everyone around us? Um, and you're not gonna get all those answers with blinders on, narrowly focused on your neighborhood and your immediate ar- area. Mm-hmm. You're gonna get those answers, I would argue, by casting a pretty broad net, asking what's going on around the world, even in different species. But, you know, let's keep it to our species for a moment, asking those questions about what happens in different cultures and different contexts. And, and I think there's a richness there, um, that actually does improve our lives in ways that are harder to measure. Um, but that, you know, uh, we often wanna reduce things down to the bottom line, to the health nugget, to the biohack. And, okay, I get it. But there's a broader thing here that I think is valuable. Right. Very... Could not agree more. Really well said there. How much do we know about the variation? And let's just stay with our wheelhouse here, of something like energy expenditure- Mm-hmm. ... among other, uh, older forms of lifestyle, if you will. So, clearly you've spent time in Africa- ... and I don't know if you've gone to Central America. But how much variation do we know exists between Southeast Asia cultures, European, Scandinavian, and other ones? I assume you think your findings with the Hadza group would extend to everyone else. But what do we actually know, if any- Yeah. ... about other groups? Great question. So, now we have this big, uh, global database that we're putting together has allowed us to kinda ask that question, which is really fun. And so, we've got, um... In the latest iteration of it, I think we've got 35 populations from around the world.But between those genes are lots of stretches of DNA that, as far as we can tell, don't do anything. And because of that, you don't have evolutionary pressures keeping them the same. They tend to vary more. And they var- vary in a random way, and so they create noise, let's say, in your genome. Now, the random processes that create noises in one population are unlikely to be the same as they happen in another population. So those random, meaningless bits of noise in your genome actually become a nice fingerprint- ... for where your recent ancestry is. Because the same random things that happened in Scandinavia probably didn't happen in Southeast Asia. And so, that's what a company, a retail genetics company, is doing. They're looking for those kind of meaningless... Actually, it... The more meaningless, the better. Yeah, the noncoding stuff, right? Yeah. The noncoding stuff. And so, um, yeah, so that's funny because then I think it... Those tests are, I think, are really fun to play with. They give you the sense that those genetic differences are big and meaningful when, in fact, the reason they work is that they're not meaningful (laughs) By definition. Yeah. We don't yet know what... Uh, that they're doing anything. Exactly. Yeah. That's right. How do we distinguish, though? How do we draw that line? How... When you said recent ancestors. Hmm. Well, that's another thing. So we know now, uh, that, uh, you know, people have been mixing and moving globally forever. So there are no, uh, you know, sort of genetically isolated pure populations, and, uh, everybody intermixes with everybody. That is just the truth. Um, and so I couldn't use, for example, I would have a hard time... Uh, let, let's say it this way, those little, uh, random noise signals that tell me I'm from Scandinavia or s- or Southeast Asia, those only work 'cause recently we, we measured a bunch of people from those places, and we know what that noise looks like there. Right. But check back in in 100 years, and it might be different, right? 'Cause it's gonna keep on churning. This, this churn is gonna keep on happening. It's been happening for 20... It's... For 200,000 years, and that's gonna keep on sort of mixing it up. How good would you call our current database of genetics across the- Mm. ... the variety of cultures? We know it's hugely uneven, right? Uh, the most data we have in terms of, you know, UK Biobank or GenBank or any of these big databases, or for that matter, the retail space of, uh, you know, the, the- Yeah. Those are all, um, wealthy, largely white populations and countries. Not entirely. There's, you know, there's fair... The people work very hard to get coverage as far as everywhere they can get it. But just in terms of the bulk of the numbers, yeah. I think the more recent data suggests that still, to this point, 90-plus percent- ... of genetic data is on white Caucasian. That's right. That's right. And what we know is that when we go... We can talk about this next. When we do a study of, uh, you know, what, what gene variants predict height- I, I would love for you to go into this. Yes, please do. Yeah. What gene variants predict height? What gene variants predict cardiovascular risk, disease risk? What gene variants predict an... Pick your trait. When those studies are done in the UK Biobank with a largely white population, it turns out they're not what they call portable. I can find those same gene variants anywhere else because, again, populations sha- shares these variants. But it turns out they're not predictive over there anymore. Totally. Oops. Right? And so, um, yeah. It's a, it's an interesting time to be alive, right? Because I remember in the '90s as an undergraduate, the human genome hadn't been published yet. Right. We were in the kind of the late stages of this reckoning about, uh, racial diversity and the fact that race is a, is a cultural construct that has, of course, important biology, uh, embedded in it, and, and actually racism itself can create biologies. I mean, so there's a whole... But we understood that, that race is not a biological category, it's a cultural category. We understood, uh, it was a reckoning about sex differences, it was a reckoning of all these things. And we were ready, I think we were poised to do the next thing, which is to get down to the genetic level, and then we had the human genome published, and we're still not... We haven't... It hasn't... That pro- it's a promise unfulfilled because the gene, the genome work has gone in a kind of a different direction. Um, I think we still don't really reckon with diversity in the ways that, that we probably ought to. Well, you could explain a lot of things here, but one thing of note is I don't think many people have really gotten past, or the awareness has gotten out about what I call the one-to-one gene fallacy. Mm. Which is an entire human genome, the promise of it, the direct or indirect- Yeah. ... was that, "Well, we'll sequence every human gene-" "... and because one gene equals one physical trait-" Yes. "... we'll then know everything about you." That's exactly right. Yes. That's a great way to go with it, too, because the promise was, "I'm gonna n- be able to sequence your genome, and I'm gonna know everything about you." And it didn't happen. And now we know that it will never happen. It won't happen. The numbers are astronomical. They're astronomical, and environment has, has too big of a role. Right. You know? In a lot of traits, it has a very dominant role, and in every trait, it has some role. And so, uh, it's, it's... You know, it isn't that you have three genes and the versions you have of those determine how h- how tall you get. There are at least 10,000 genes for which we know if you have variant A or variant B, you're gonna be a little bit taller, a little bit shorter. And you add up all those over 10,000, and I might know something about your height, but then I also have to know your environment 'cause I only know about half the story with the genetics, right? So it's a complicated system. Well, if we wanted to be predictive about things, it's... We can understand it at a kind of broader level and just say, "Look, we have to understand the interplay of environment and genetics for each trait individually, how they work." That's, that's the better way in to understanding why your physiology is different than mine, or why this athlete is, you know, struggling with this thing, or this person is struggling with that disease risk, or whatever it is. When we un- wanna understand our diversity, we have to break it down, I think, back to that kind of fundamental beginning, and then it's a good way into it. Why does this stuff even help? Why does it even matter- Yeah. ... that we're thinking about genetics, as an example, wrong? We gave the example earlier of why it mattered for GFR. Mm-hmm. But can you think of any exa- examples of where over-generalizing by population, or perhaps maybe not thinking about the uniqueness of that individual population appropriately- ... matters. Like, what are the practical implications of these mistakes- Oh. ... outside of sociocultural, like... Uh, here's a fun example, and we can do a couple of these, but here's a fun one. Uh, I was working in Northern Kenya, uh, when we first started working on, on that project with a community, uh, called the Dosniq, which is a traditio- Oh, perfect. Great. Great. Let's, yes. Traditional, uh, pa- pastoralists, these folks, you know, they live with their herds, goats and cattle and, and camels. Um, and we started this project. We, we got in the community, and of course, this is community-based work. We, we met with, uh, community leaders. We met with the health clinic folks. We wanted to, before we started, to make sure we were talking to everybody and getting everybody on board, and this is something we all wanted to do. One of the folks we talked to was this, uh, German charity that was there to try to, um, to, to, you know, reduce malnutrition in this group. And so they're giving food supplementation to moms with little kids to try to fix what they saw as malnutrition. Um, and so we, um, we met with this guy from the German charity, me and, and our, my Kenyan colleague, Rosemary, who's wonderful. And, you know, this guy's like, "Look, man, it's really bad. Malnutrition. 60% of the kids here are, are malnourished." That's scary. Obviously, that's a tragedy. And so we thought, "Oh, gosh, okay, that's important to know." And then, um-... but you go out into the community, you go around the villages, and that's not what you see. What you see is kids running around, playing, happy, laughing. And if there's- if malnourished, y- you know, if- if undernourishment is that big of an issue, you should also see issues with fertility. Mm-hmm. You don't see that. You see big families. Um, folks are active, healthy, doing their thing. That's strange. How- how do we square the circle on that? And it turns out, um, you know, we, uh, were talking to the health clinic about this. And they had, in their records, partly d- with this charity, they- they had been doing this. They had been collecting heights and weights for children in that, uh, community, the Dostonic community, for years and years. And they had, uh, you know, hundreds, I think a couple thousand of measurements of- of- of kids' heights and weights from birth up through, you know, up through childhood. Science gold. Wonderful. It's so awesome, right? Yeah. Everything you could ever hope for. Yeah. So what we were able to do is basically make a Dostonic community growth curve, right? What the Germans guys had been doing is, they'd been taking heights and weights of kids and they'd been plotting them against WHO standards. Oh, there you go. There you go. Right? Yep. And the assumption there is that kids everywhere across the globe all grow exactly the same. Bingo. The kids in the Dostonic community were doing a really cool thing, actually. They would start off normal height and weight. They would kind of fall off the growth curve a little bit, eh, around year one. But then around year two, their heights would shoot up. They were taller than the a- global standard, actually. But because of that, their height for their weight, that ratio looked thin. Way off, yeah. Did they physically look ill? Did they physically- They don't look, they don't look ill, but even- Just lanky. ... the folks, they just tall and thin. It's just, it's just the body build in that population. And so, um, the German charity, where they had their hearts in the right place, they wanted to help, but you are never gonna get that popula- those kids to look like, you know, WHO standard kids. 'Cause they are in- in that population, and that's, you know, the alleles that- that- that promote a tall, thin build are really common. That's an adaptation in that part of the world for dealing with really hot climates is it's incredibly hot there. You're on the equator. Um, being tall and thin is a way to- to be able to thermoregulate better. That's been known for a long time. We see that a- around the world. Tall, thin body build tends to be more common in really hot climates 'cause it's a way to dump heat. Yeah, surface area, along, right? Surface area, exactly. Yep. Yeah. Um, and so these kids were doing exactly what their bodies were built to do. Now, if you understand the way that height works, just to pick a trait, and the interplay of genetics and environment, um, then you can look at that and say, "Oh, that's the system. Now I understand it." Now, actually, now that you have a Dostonic-specific growth curve, now you could pick the kids that really do need help. Oh, yeah. That's great. You could help them. You could focus the help better. Um, and I don't fault the German charity for wanting to help. Clearly. But they were never gonna achieve. They actually left. They- they closed up shop and left because they thought, "We can't solve this problem." Right? Oh, no. So there's a great example. If you don't understand how the system works, you're gonna make, you're gonna come to wrong conclusions about how to help. You're gonna come to wrong conclusions about, um, about what's going on. You're gonna flag the wrong people for needing help. You're gonna, you're gonna miss who does need help, you know? All these things. Uh, so I think pragmatically understanding how these systems work and how genes and environment work together and how it's a s- you know, it's a trait-by-trait thing. You know, just because I know about their growth curves doesn't m- mean I know about anything else about them, by the way. Right. It d- mean, I don't know their heart health or their, uh, you know, mental health or anything like that. It, those are different traits. There is clearly need and value in population level research. Mm-hmm. Uh, this is, again, your field. Yeah. At least your old field on that. What you're clearly arguing for, though, here, is at least as I interpret it, is a move closer towards precision. Individualized. Towards individualized, right? How do we, in your words, square that circle? In other words, how do we set up research, how do we think about research on the population level? Because there are benefits we can get from that, that we can't get from, you know, individualized- Oh, for sure. ... single recent. Yeah, yeah, yeah. How do we get the best out of both? How do we use population-level research so that we can be the most informed and then also not make these mistakes- ... like we are currently doing with basically everything in genetics, in terms of... And to be clear, what I'm saying there is, if you're making nutrition or exercise decisions based on your genetic testing- ... and I think you've laid out a compelling argument that that's probably quite short-sighted- ... to be kind. How do we do this? How do we think about it? What I think this kind of work are used for is a few different things. First of all, I think if we had better fluency, and I think if you learned your biology and how these things worked in the same way that you learn social studies and, you know, English lit- ... and all these things, I think that this is part of the general fluency that we expect kids to- to come out of high schools with or out of colleges with, that we would all be better consumers of things like retail genetics. We'd all be better patients with our doctors, because when they say, "Here's how your kidney function looks," you'd say, "Wait a second." Right? So I think it's, that's part of what this kind of, of new understanding of diversity and how our bodies work, I think that's one, you know, important avenue for that. In terms of how we change the way we think about research, here's what I would love to have. I would love to see, um, research that didn't, um, just reiterate the same kind of wrong classifications like we think, right? Yeah. I mean, I can tell you, if you do NIH-based research- Yep, yep. ... you're supposed to tell them how many Hispanic, non-white His- n- non-black Hispanic, uh, non-Hispanic whites, b- l- this is the census categories, right? Yep. And then somehow those categories are used to interpret results of your population-based data in a way that we know going into it is fundamentally problematic. And, you know, there's... (laughs) I'm not saying that we don't wanna have diverse cohorts. I'm saying the opposite, actually. I- I... Okay, thank you. Yes. I'm saying the opposite. I'm saying that let's treat, you know, let- let's take these individual by individual. If, um... And let's look at trait-specific, uh, for, you know, let's look at trait-specific physiology. Let's look at those individual axes of variation. Um, it might be helpful to know in your big population that folks who are Black in the United States have these physiological outcomes. But that's not telling you that skin color does that or that their genetics did that. That's flagging that perhaps their environment, because of, you know, all the cultural baggage we have in the US, are affecting physiologies that way. Let's, let's understand it that way. Um, so I'm not... We, we need diverse research. We need diverse research populations. But the way that we handle it just has to be different. Yeah. I actually... I love how you frame that. If I could throw a, uh, a little bit of an analogy on the spot here on that- Yeah. ... the way that I generally like to think about population-based data, and let's just keep using that example. One trait that you'll see pop up, we said earlier, um, for Black, African American- Mm-hmm. ... much higher rates of type 2 diabetes. Much, generally higher rates of obesity, right? So what you're saying is population data can shine a light on that. And that allows us to say, "Hey, we need more focus. We need more emphasis. We need more resources." Does that then tell you, if you're Black, there's something in your physiology that makes you, uh, have more diabetes? Maybe, maybe not. All it's simply saying is there's something in the entire picture. Yeah. That's a great example. An- another one, uh, is heart disease, hypertension and heart disease. Yep. We know that, uh, Black folks, Native Americans, other minorities have higher rates of hypertension and heart disease, uh, than whites in the US. That's... We know that. For a long time, in the '80s, '90s, uh, particularly the observation that we had higher rates of hypertension among Black Americans was taken to somehow mean-... interpreted it as, they have a genetic predisposition to hypertension. I spent my graduate work in Memphis- ... in health science. I had to teach this. And it's wrong. Right? It is both true that that's, that in the US, you know, Black populations have higher rates of hypertension. It is also true that if you (laughs) go anywhere else that doesn't have a history of racism, guess what? They don't. And it's, um, same with Native- Native Americans, uh, have higher rates of cardiovascular disease in the US. Go to places where, um, uh, the hearty, the, the healthiest hearts in the world are in, um, Indigenous populations in Bolivia. Right? So, and it's basically a very similar, you know, recent, uh, d- uh, diaspora of those populations down into South Af- South America. So you're talking about genetically kind of similar populations, if you wanna talk about it that way. Right. Um, so point being, um, we take the wrong conclusions, we make the wrong fixes, we learn the wrong lessons when we don't understand how our bodies work and how, why we become unique. And to your point of the, the German charity- Yeah. ... this can be done well hearted. Right? It's just not, uh, again, potentially not focusing the right lens- That's right. ... and help and support- ... in the areas, 'cause we don't understand what the actual rationale, what the reason, what the cause- ... is for some of these issues. So, on the topic then of diversity and physiology- ... right, we'll, we'll stick again to our side of the equation. How do we best think about that? What is the best way we can learn from it, make better help- Mm-hmm. ... better support, whether it's scientifically, public health. I know you don't work in- ... areas of public health, but what is the most appropriate way that we should at lea- maybe start thinking about it, or advocating for types of science? Like, a- anything that's the solution side of the equation, how should we be better thinking about it? Yeah. I think, uh, when we understand the role o- of environment especially in a lot of these, uh, health outcome, like d- uh, diabetes risk, obesity risk, heart disease risk, um, uh, I, I think a kinda individualized approach and a life course approach, because we're thinking about environment over the lifespan here- Yep. ... okay, um, points us to research that's gonna focus on early life experiences especially, getting those environments right, right? Childhood is a really important, obviously learning period for your body's physiology. Um, and, you know, I think using, you know, w- when we see differences among different communities in, in health outcomes, not ascribing that to some inherent issue there- Mm-hmm. ... but, uh, flagging that as, usually when it's at the population level, an environmental issue. When we see individual differences, well now, we can ask, "Okay, what is it about your individual physiology that's, that's, that we need to tweak?" That's a move towards an, you know, kind of precision medicine that I don't think, you know, uh, I don't have all the answers there yet. Of course. I don't know that anybody does. No. But that's, we can focus more on the individual that way and, and hopefully do, do a better job. It's, again, I'll never get over this interesting, what I feel like is a juxtaposition of what your academic background (laughs) is- Yeah. ... and the fact that you're now arguing so heavily for, I'm sure it feels like it's seamless and is the same thing, but I'm like, finally. (laughs) Yes, a person that's telling us all about how we can learn from studying one tribe- ... 1,000 years ago is now getting it here. Do you feel like your time as, I don't know, were you technically an EMT? I know you were- Oh, yeah. ... in that stuff, like- That's right, yeah, about- Do you feel like that- ... three or four years. Yeah. Um, is that, is that a part of this here? Is that why you're seeing this? Is that how you're able to kinda zoom back and look at population level stuff as well as the individual person? Yeah. Yeah. I feel like when I read that, and when I knew that about you, I'm like, "This has gotta be in there somewhere that's driving this equation." Yeah. I, um, I think that my time as an EMT, uh, was motivated by two big things. You know, it's, you never know, you, you sort of, we, we tell our stor- stories about why we do things after the fact. Yeah. Right? Um, so I don't know if I would've articulated this as an 18 or 19-year-old taking that EMT class at Penn State when I learned how to do this stuff. Um, I think it, it really hit two buttons for me. One was the human physiology side and just seeing, you know, medical, the, the medical world play out, you know, in practical terms (laughs) with a, a patient that you're taking care of and understanding the body that way. That was, that's super cool. Uh, but the other thing was, you know, medicine and especially emergency medicine happens behind closed doors for most of us. Yep. We don't get to see it firsthand. Certainly as, growing up, I didn't get to see it. My parents weren't doctors or anything like that. And so, to kind of pull the curtain to the side and understand how that, uh, high intensity world worked and just understand how the world worked a little bit. And, and that was a draw I couldn't... I think that was the biggest draw. I wanted to know what happened to the back of the ambulance, man. Yeah. You know? I wanted to know what happens when you pull up on a car wreck and you have to make decisions right now about how you're gonna treat the patient, keep the scene safe, get the, you know, and, and the immediacy of it, the fact that it's something that most of the w- that I never got to see growing up, um, yeah, it wa- the, that was the draw. And, and, you know, the patient care obviously, and the, that's obviously a big thing too. But I think the, that was the big draw for me. Did you have a love of physiology before that, or was that what jumped it off a lot? I, I think that and, um, the, the anthropology classes I was taking were very kind of biologically focused. So that, that combined elements of that, you know, what you're learning from the medical context in an EMT book and then the, the evolutionary perspective on it in my classes. I think that, uh, I, you know, I haven't really put it together like that before, but I think that's right. I think that's kind of was this cool synergy as I was figuring out what I wanted to do with my life. What do you have coming up next in that? Uh, you were talking earlier about some of the projects you've got going on. What, where's the next question you, we talked about a bunch- ... of things you could answer. What's on the immediate horizon for you right now? What are you most interested in next? Well, we have a really exciting project happening right now, uh, two actually, trying to, to understand metabolic ceilings. Um, you know, is that r- is there really a cap on what the body can do? And if there is, how do we push it? What happens when you push it? Uh, and so we've got one study going on right now looking at, at pregnancy and looking at, uh, female athletes through pregnancy that are maintaining really high activity workloads to sort of see how that pushes the body around and energy expenditures and all that, all the follow-on things that happen with that. Yeah. Um, that's a super exciting project that hopefully we'll have out in the next, uh, year or so. Um, we have a project looking at ultra marathon runners, asking, um, you know, outside of the pregnancy context, just people who are just pushing their bodies to the extreme, what does that look like physiologically, metabolically. Um, and that's worked, we're, I'm doing with Drew Best in Massachusetts, uh, and that's been really fun. So, those are kind of that, that avenue of research. Um, we wanna get work going trying to look at organ metabolic rates and how those might juggle and change- Mm-hmm. ... um, in the face of, uh, lifestyle change, in the face of different interventions. Um, that's really early days, and I, I'm hoping to get that going. We'd love to know, uh, in that same kind of, you know, distant horizon is, uh, looking at life course changes in, in childhood and old age, how metabolic rates change. And then, you know, we have a bunch of projects right now looking at, uh, i- in different communities. We have one looking at, at health, uh, cardiometabolic health in, in, uh, in pastors, in clergy, in Western North Carolina. Oh, okay. You know, they, there's a, they have a, we were asked to, to help out on this grant. Um, there's a s- kind of higher rates of, of cardiometabolic disease, diabetes and stuff with this population than we'd like to see. Higher than sort of background, other, other folks in that, those same communities. We wanna understand what it is, what is it about the, the challenges of that job, psychological-... physical activity, diet that are pushing, you know, you know, health outcomes where we don't wanna see them. Mm-hmm. Um, and we're working abroad still. So, we have the work in, in Kenya, um, other collaborations around the world. So yeah, you know, it's a busy, uh, it's a, it's a full plate. Yeah, you're not slowing down at all, in addition to writing books- Yeah. ... and all those things. If someone would've been as fascinated as I am- (laughs) ... in this conversation, I, I really, really thoroughly enjoyed it, and they're thinking to themselves, "Okay, great, how can I better think about metabolism, energy expenditure, all these things?" Is there any other lessons that you think people should glean that you really want to emphasize- Mm. ... or that they can pull from? Uh, you mentioned this several times now, you're a natural teacher. Just talent-wise, and you also clearly have a passion for it. So, how do we help connect this last dot for people in saying like, "I really like what people... I'd like for people to learn"? Okay, so let's start with the metabolism thing. Um, if people are trying to, you know, optimize their health, change their body composition, maybe maintain their body composition, thinking about meta- metabolism, I emphasize that we should think about diet and exercise as two different tools for two different jobs. Yep. I'm sure there's lots of crossover, but diet's going to be your best tool, uh, for maintaining weight or getting your weight where you need it to be. Exercise is going to be your main tool for everything else, right? Heart health, mental health, muscle health. Fill in the blanks, right? Fill in the blanks. Um, now how do we connect that to this second half of our conversation about individualized approaches and diversity? Uh, I think you need to treat yourself as N of one and understand that there is a real broad range of, of possible diets that might work best for you, possible exercises that you're gonna get into that y- you're gonna love more or less. You know, your inv- individual environment and genes, how those mesh together, that's... Nobody has that same setup. You know, you, you are unique. And so, um, I think the one-size-fits-all approaches, I think the kind of evangelistic, "You have to have this diet approach," kind of thing, give yourself a break, walk away from that and just ask, "Okay, I'm gonna pay attention to myself, and I'm gonna treat myself as N of one," because I... you are. And, um, you can play around with what we know is out there, be evidence-based. You know, read, read good books, read good papers, or listen to great podcasts, and figure out what the evidence is out there and then say, "Okay, I can, I can play with this, uh, without putting myself in a bucket of, 'Oh, I'm a woman, and therefore this,' 'I'm a man, and therefore that,' 'I'm this group or that group-" This age, yeah. "... on that group.'" You're N of one, so, you know, go out a- and, and feel free to sort of play with it that way. And, and, you know, I think with that kind of an approach, first of all, it lets you breathe a little bit and have a little less stress about, "Oh, I'm not doing it right." Perfect, right. Uh- It's empowering. It should be more empowering than- I hope so. ... than, than not, right? Yeah. And, uh, and then it also lets you explore and find something that you love. I, you know, I'm not a... I'm an anthropologist, I s- I study people, and what I can tell you is across the world, around the world, if people don't love something, it doesn't matter what, you know, culturally, whatever, all the diversity, if people don't love something, they're not gonna stick with it. People do what they love. They always fall back to it. And so if you can't find a lifestyle approach that, that is gonna really resonate with you, it's not gonna matter what it does physiologically, because it's not gonna stick. So, I think that's... You know, listen to yourself and, and be N of one, because that's what you are. If somebody wanted to do something like this, and they wanted to start learning more about their metabolism- Mm-hmm. ... and figuring out their daily energy expenditure and things like that, uh, what tools would you recommend? Where should they start? Yeah. What options do people have if they want to follow your advice there? Yeah. Uh, well, I mean, you can go low tech, you've got the bathroom scale. Yep. Right? And- It's always the best place. (laughs) It's not a bad place to start. Uh, you know, if you're... And, and, you know, we talked a little bit in this conversation about models versus data. If your model is, "I'm on this diet, and I'm eating at an energy deficit," but the s- the data say you're not losing weight, then I'm sorry, you're not eating... I mean, you know, that's just it. Yeah. Good data. And, and so you gotta, you gotta kind of move your... follow the data, not the model. Um, you know, there are lots of companies out there that'll measure different aspects of your health if you're into that. Um, I would s-... If you wanna measure your energy expenditures, I'm a, I'm a science advisor for a company called Calorify. You can check them out, uh, and, and do that. Just tell us a little quickly about what that is and how it works. Oh, right, yeah. So, this is a really cool, uh, company- And, and full disclosure, I've used it many times, uh, I paid for it full price, no discount. Okay. So, um, I've, I've used it quite often, but- Awesome, yeah. ... what do we do with this? Yeah, so, uh, this is a company that was, uh... So, the technique I talked about earlier about how we measure total energy expenditures, all the calories you burn over, oh, for, for 24 hours, um, the technique we use is, uh, called the doubly labeled water method. It's an isotope tracking method, and it's the gold standard for doing those kind of measurements. And, uh, until recently, there wasn't sort of a retail way to do that. You couldn't just get a measurement for yourself. You had to sign up for a study or something like that. Um, uh, Hari Mix, who's the, the founder of Calorify, and I was there too to help get it off the ground, um, I'm a science advisor for that company, full disclosure, uh, they, they wanted to, to make this sort of available to everybody. And so you can check out Calorify and, um, and, and, and get those measurements yourself if you want. Great. Fantastic. What would you say to somebody who was concerned that they've been in a caloric deficit for a long time, they have been, uh, potentially whether they're losing weight or not, but they're eating a really low amount of calories, potentially they've lowered it. Yeah. They, they're weighing, they're measuring, they're- Mm-hmm. ... reasonably accurate in that, and they've continued to reduce a couple of hundred calories, it's been months and months and months. Now they're concerned that they have crashed their metabolism. They've- ... gone to the bo-... You- People use- We'll explain this thing differently, but- Yeah, yeah, yeah. ... is that a real thing? And if so, what's happening there? You can definitely see people's, like, basal metabolic rates go, get lower when they go on really, uh, you know, kind of crash diet kind of things. Um, as far as I know, I don't know of any evidence that says it doesn't just recover when you kind of go back to a, a, a more normal (laughs) amount of food and, and a more normal exercise load. Uh, and so I don't think anybody is sort of forever damaged from whatever they tried in the past, uh, you know. Um, yeah. So again, let yourself off the hook a little bit and it's, it's gonna be okay. Yeah. Uh, I really, really appreciate you coming halfway across... well- (laughs) ... entirely across the country. Um- And I didn't run, I took an airplane. You did? So I... Yeah, I didn't do the marathon a day thing for five months. I, I just took... I just jumped on a plane. I cheated. I'm not gonna lie, I feel like that's a little bit lazy. It is. I mean, you're... That's fair. That's fair. You got out here. But really appreciated it, I, I thoroughly enjoyed it. I've been waiting a long time for it, and I know people are gonna get a ton out of this. Um, if people want to follow along with your journey and support and stuff, where can they do those things? Uh, yeah, we're online, you can check out The Ponser Lab, and we try to, uh, you know, update how our projects are going. Um, of course, we publish everything in the scientific literature- Sure. ... which isn't always easy to keep up with, but it's there. Um, and then, you know, check out, uh, I guess you could check out my writing. We've got a new book coming out, and, uh, I'm sure there'll be more fun stuff to tell the world about, so... Uh, and then the foundation as well? Oh, thanks for that. Yeah. Um, one of the things that we've done working with the Hadza community is to start, uh, a fi-... uh, to start a charity that, that helps support their population health to kind of give back, because we've learned so much from them- Yeah. ... um, we want to make sure we're... it's, uh... we're giving back. And so it's called Hadzafund, H-A-D-Z-A-F-U-N-D.org. Um, and if folks want to support the Hadza community, keep them strong and healthy, um, they can go on there and make a donation. Uh, it's always appreciated. Really appreciate you coming out. I learned a ton, and I know people are gonna respond really positively to this. So, thank you so much. You bet. Thanks for the invitation. It was a really fun conversation. Thank you for joining for today's episode. To learn more about Herman, follow along with his books, social media, laboratory, and other resources, please check the show notes for direct links. My goal, as always, is to share exciting scientific insights that help you perform at your best. If the show resonates with you, and you want to help ensure this information remains free and accessible to anyone in the world, there are a few ways that you can support. First, you can subscribe to the show on YouTube, Spotify, and Apple. And on Apple and Spotify, you can leave us up to a five-star review. Subscribing and leaving a review really does help us a lot. Also, please check out our sponsors. This show would not exist without them and their exceptional products and services. Finally, you can share today's episode with a friend who you think would enjoy it. If you have any content questions or suggestions, please put those in the comments section on YouTube. I really do try my best to read them all and to see what you have to say. I use my Instagram and X profiles also exclusively for scientific communication, so those are great places to follow along for more learning. My handle is @doctorandygalpin on both platforms. We also have an email newsletter that distills all of our episodes and the most actionable takeaways. We have newsletters on how to improve fitness and VO2 max, how to build muscle and strength, and much more. To subscribe to the newsletter, just go to performpodcast.com and click Newsletter. It's completely free, and we do not share your email with anybody. Thank you for listening. And never forget, in the famous words of Bill Bowerman, "If you have a body, you are an athlete." (instrumental music)