Welcome to another episode of Five Minute Physiology with Dr. Andy Galpin. In the field of exercise science, we describe muscle contractions in three ways. Concentric, eccentric, and isometric. Understanding the differences between each of them and how to use it in training will increase your results while minimizing your likelihood of injury. Concentric is the most popular. It is the shortening of muscle while generating force. Eccentric is the opposite. Sometimes you've heard these described as negatives. It's the lengthening of muscle while generating force and iso meaning same position means you're generating force but not moving at all. Really common examples of concentric only movements would be things like bicep curls or leg presses. Eccentrics could be lat pull downs or the lowering of the bench press to your chest. While isometrics are any exercise where you're holding the exact position, say a wall squat, holding a bicep curl, or anything else where you're not moving but still contracting and working really hard. Most multi- joint exercises use all three. In the case of a bench press, you actually would start with an eccentric contraction as you're lowering it to your chest. If you pause for a quick second, that'd be isometric. And then while you're coming back up, you would hit the concentric phase. Some exercises start concentric and end eccentric and some do the exact opposite. Almost all have isometric in the middle. But think about the exercise that you're doing and how you're performing it because that will determine which of these phases are happening in which order. You can also isolate them. So you can do isometric only. Of course, you could do certain exercises like say just lowering yourself from a pull-up position, resetting, jumping back up and going back down again. And that would be eccentric only. Or the exact opposite of course could be doing the pull up all the way up to the top, letting dropping to the bottom and starting again. And depending on what you're trying to get with what exercise adaptation you're working on, you might have more advantages doing isometric only, eccentric, concentric, or a combination of them. Eccentric exercises are great because they allow you to produce more total force. They're also really good for learning and exercise because it demonstrates and requires you to be under more total control. They can also be really then good for generating muscle growth and hypertrophy. The downside though is they're by definition slower. Not always, but most of the time that means you're lowering something on your body and you can't go as fast as possible when doing that. They also are going to add more to your soreness. Now, this doesn't necessarily mean that they're breaking more muscles down. Spoiler alert and maybe for another video, that's not actually what happens. But the reality of it is they are good for muscle growth, strength, and overall movement understanding. Concentric has almost the exact opposite. It's great for explosive stuff and power because you can move really fast and you generally you're pushing things away from you. They can be good for learning as well, but they won't produce as much peak force and don't necessarily always result in most maximal growth. To be really clear, they're both doing all that. What we're talking about is at the end of the spectrum when you're giving everything possible, which one has the potential to the absolute most. Isometrics are probably the most misunderstood or underutilized. I certainly know I didn't pay attention to them for decades, which was a mistake. I love them because you're able to focus on certain positions. So whether you're working around an injury or trying to isolate an area of weakness, you can lock in that and not have to worry about moving through the entire range of motion. They are fantastic for strength and hypertrophy and especially good for muscular endurance. The research on isometric is really clear. They are effective and in my opinion underutilized. There are a ton of ways you can integrate these into your training program. You could separate them by phases. For example, you could spend two, four, or even six weeks doing just eccentric work. Spend another couple of weeks on just the isometric and then another big chunk of time on the concentric. That's a pretty common setup, eccentric, isometric, and concentric. Because think about it this way, spend a bunch of time learning control of the movement. Spend a bunch of time making sure you own it in that bottom or final position, and then a bunch of time actually moving through the concentric. That approach is triphasic and is one way to integrate all three. You could also do it in what would be called an undulating weekly program. So maybe Monday is eccentric, Wednesday is isometric and Friday is concentric. So we could do them across multiple weeks where we focus on one at a time or you can integrate them and do the same individual week. You could also do the exact same thing in a single workout. You could start off the workout eccentric, move to isometric, and then move to concentric. Or really any combination. So maybe you do one eccentric exercise, you do five isometrics and then one concentric or any combination of them depending upon how much focus and emphasis you want to place on each individual one. going back to the beginning which was what is our goal? What's our outcome? What are we working around? What are we working with? And what are we needing for our most optimal adaptation? Another approach you could also take would be to blend them within a set. So you could say for example, you could do one or two repetitions where you're focusing on the eccentric, you're holding for a long period of time and then finishing concentric. So in that particular case, you're expanding the time during isometric. If you're still doing eccentric and concentric in this single individual repetition, but since you're spending way more time holding that position, you're going to get a more much greater stimuli on the isometric part. Or the opposite. Let's say you do 5 seconds or 8 seconds, 10 seconds lowering, hold for one second and then spend 1 second or 5 seconds or 10 seconds going back up. So hopefully this helps you understand. You have tons of options. Go all the way back to the beginning. Think about what we're trying to do, what emphasis you're trying to place, and that will determine your program design. I hope that made sense, but it may be easier for you to just see an example. Please keep in mind this is just one random madeup scenario. It does work, but there's plenty of options and no reason to think this is the exact right, perfect, or optimal setup by any stretch of the imagination. Often times when coaches are programming, they'll give you three numbers next to your workout. What they're representing there is tempo. And that's specifically telling you how much time to spend in these different phases. So you could see something on your chart that looks like 1 121 or 510 or something like that. In this particular case, let's say you're doing a plyometric exercise. You're going to jump up and down, land, and jump back up as high as you can, as fast as you can. Well, in that particular case, the eccentric is a zero. You're going as fast as you can. The isometric at the bottom is none because you're actually trying to get back up in the air as fast as you can. So that would be 0 0. And the concentric is also as fast as possible. So we would probably not even write a tempo there. And if we did, it would be 00 0. Meaning go as fast in all three phases as you possibly can. A different example of that would be if we're doing say a pause squat. Maybe we're going to say go down in three,00 2003. Pause for two at the bottom and then explode up as fast as you can. So that might look like 320. So, we're manipulating different phases based on what we're trying to get. If we were to blend these things into an individual workout, it might look something like this. The start of your workout, you're doing your speed and power. That's going to be a 0000 tempo, moving as fast as you can, maybe some agility drills. You're throwing stuff and you're maximizing your peak power. Then you might move into two or three exercises geared more towards strength. Maybe you're going to do a three second eccentric because we want to make sure we're under good control for whatever we're doing. a one second pause. Same idea, trying to stabilize, be safe, and then we're going to explode up with a concentric as fast as we can. We know strength requires acceleration and so we wouldn't want to intentionally go slow if we're trying to maximize strength. So maybe you do two or three exercises focused on strength. You transition there to maybe hypertrophy or muscular endurance, and we do something the opposite. We do a 3se secondond eccentric, a 5-second hold, and then whatever it takes you to lift the weight back up. And you might only do two or three repetitions because of the fatigue associated with those extra long holds at the beginning or the middle. You can then finish at the end doing the exact opposite actually where maybe you do a two sec eentric, a two-cond hold, and a 5-second concentric. This is nice because it makes the absolute load or the weight really low, which should make it easier on your joints, and you can get a ton of fatigue, a ton of pump, and feel really great in a way that doesn't beat you up. Again, just a random example to help you conceptualize how this could look if you wanted to integrate all three into a workout. Infinite possibilities there. Explore what works best for you and your situation and goals. Before we leave this, I want to throw one more quick thing at you, and that is something called eccentric overload. It's actually been around a long time, but very few people are aware of it, and almost nobody uses it. My team has actually published a paper on this very recently and that is the idea of taking say 110 or 115 maybe even more percent of your one rep max. It's only the eccentric portion of it. You just say lower yourself on the squat or the bench with a really really really heavy load. Well, spoiler alert, it's really effective at a lot of things. I wouldn't try this if you're a beginner or you don't know what your one rep max is. A lot of caveats go into something like that. It's an advanced strategy, but very effective and something that you should pay attention to in the field. If you want to hear more about that and see direct examples, let me know, of course, the comments section, and I'm happy to make a video if that's something of interest. Hopefully, this was enjoyable and it helped you. Would love to hear how this is working out. If any of you do make any changes to your training, you try anything based on this video, I would love to hear how it went and get that feedback. It's always a pleasure hearing people tell me things worked or that they were terrible. Whatever the case may be, want to know about it. Thanks again for checking out another episode of FiveMinute Fizz and we'll see you next time. If you enjoyed this and want to keep learning more about human health and performance, consider signing up for the Catalyst. That's my completely free newsletter where we share information about places I've learned from, great books, podcasts, social media, people to follow, and other ways to stay upto-date with the most recent evidenceinformed approaches in this field. I'll put a link to that newsletter in the description below, as well as pinned to the top comments, and I'll see you there.