The science and practice of enhancing human performance for sport, play, and life. Welcome to Perform. I'm Dr. Andy Galpin. I'm a professor and scientist and the executive director of the human performance center at Parker University. Today I'm speaking with Jill Miller. Jill is an expert in everything from mobility to breath work to body work and especially in what's called selfmyofascial release. Now, in this episode, you're going to learn more about what these things actually are and how to use them best. There are many broad applications of these techniques that extend beyond just pain relief and range of motion and mobility. Jill will talk about things like the role of the fascia and some of the science that's emerging and how that's regulating everything from your digestive system to your pain to your physical performance, strength, and power output. And so I know that whether you are dealing with pain yourself, or you like yoga, you're into body work, breath work, or anywhere in between, you're going to find something in this episode that you may have not heard before, or at least you find tremendous value in. So with that said, please enjoy today's conversation with Jill Miller. Jill Miller, thank you so much for coming and chatting today. Hey Andy, so good to see you. My introduction to your work uh was, I think, from Kelly Star, right? probably 15 years ago or more, Brian McKenzie. But what really grabbed my attention was I had dabbled a lot and and paid attention to the world of we'll call it yoga. Okay. And for the most part threw it all away. I just thought like there's just nothing here for what I'm doing. I had gone through several experiences and didn't really appreciate it. And then I saw what you were doing and I like thought this is the extraction. This is the stuff we should have I wanted to get out of yoga. just me personally and I thought this this girl's nailed it. You're all over it. So my thoughts of you still to this day are that it is the best parts of yoga that again for me personally what I was looking for in myself and clients and and the scientific experience as well as there's just so many other ways we can go about self-care the physical body recovery. There's just there's so many ways it can get to and I've yet to see anybody put it together better than you. So, as an introduction, there was no question there, but it was just letting you know framing when I think about the reasons why I was dying to get you in here for this conversation. It is all that stuff. And I have AI have literally three pages of notes in front of me as you can see. And I'm super excited to go into that stuff. So, if it's okay with you, I would love to talk a ton about all those things um in a bunch of different areas. I'm down for all of it. That's great. I'm so glad that you connected with what I was offering because I think what I um did and do in the yoga space was very radical and frankly heretical back when I started teaching it. And um not a lot of people got it. And it's really nice to see that it did finally um find those people that it was meant for and act as a bridge back and forth between um training, pain management, yoga, self-care, and all those things. Great. I have uh both your books. I have many of your products. I've been to your courses. I'm like such a Jill Miller fan. It's ridiculous. All that to say, I thought maybe we could just start directly with this first idea. Okay. When I traditionally had always thought of foam rolling, it was just compression. It was if your hamstring is tight, you smash it and it gets untight. And I don't know if the science works or I don't care how it works, the physiology. I just know if I smashed it on there, like I felt a little bit better in those moments. What is the difference between that compression is what I'll just keep calling it. And and maybe that's the wrong term, but let me know style of foam rolling versus other options. and and maybe actually we'll just start right there like what is the compression stuff doing? What do we know about it? How's it working? Is it working? And then from there, let's explore some of the other ideas and ways and strategies we can actually maybe do things better. Okay, so um foam rolling has become the deacto term that is now used I think in most places that refers to self myofascial release. So selfmofascial release as a category in the self- treatment space or recovery space is where you use an implement which technically is called a stress transfer medium. So we're talking about rolling sticks. Uh we're talking about foam rollers. We're talking about different balls. Um even pokey tools like uh just single things that have knobs on them. So anything like that is is a implement that is trying to influence tissue in a variety of different ways. These implements are trying to mimic somebody's hands, right? So this is something that you can do on your own. You don't have to hire somebody. You don't have to go out of pocket. You can do it any time of day you want, wherever and whenever you need it. Um, so what are they doing? What are these implements doing? they are sometimes compressing tissue like you said, they're um inducing local stretch. So, if I just lay on a ball or lay on a foam roller, I'm really just um putting pressure into that local region. But what happens if I stroke that implement with my body weight uh either in a reclining position or up against a wall or in myriad other arrangements? What happens if I take that implement and I move it along the line of pull of a muscle or across the line of pull of a muscle? Or what happens if I do um a different type of compressive rolling? What happens if I um pivot the implement or pivot my body so that it creates traction and creates like a pinching sensation? What are all those things doing? They're they're affecting different stretch receptors in different ways and they're affecting different layers of your body in different ways from skin to deep and um one of my deep interests is in the fascial tissues that it annoys uh what is it doing to those tissues? It's doing a lot of different things. Um, so I recently wrote a narrative review of the scientific research on selfmyofascia release and there are a lot of things that these implements are doing to your body. Um, one of the I think things that we can almost all the systematic reviews can agree on is it improves range of motion very quickly. So it's somehow dampening some of the sympathetic feedback into your body. So you can very quickly improve your sit and reach test or shoulder overhead or spinal movements or even you know jaw movements. Just depends on what is your target. What is your joint target? What's your tissue target? What's your intention? Um so that range of motion improvement is really exciting. Um, but some of the other research that really excites me, especially I know I'm on the podcast called Perform and um, people want to get more out of their workouts here, is that not only is the rolling improving this range of motion, but it's also improving force output. It's improving torque. And that's really helpful, especially if you want to be able to lift more over a range, right? So maybe you, you know, you're you're deficient in your overhead and you're overusing certain muscles again and again, but what the rolling does, it'll restore a range of motion, plus you'll be able to get more out of those muscle fibers. They'll be able to pull more or push more um depending on what it is the the movement that you're trying to do. Um the rolling also happens to dampen sympathetic overflow. So the tools happen to increase parasympathetic reactivity. So that's really beneficial if you're trying to calm down, you're trying to gather your thoughts, um you're trying to uh minimize your anxiety. Um the balls and tools and foam rollers. I always say the balls because I'm a ball dealer. Uh but I have to note that these things also happen with foam rollers or rolling implements. um they also improve your vascular flow. So when the rolling implements um interface with fascial tissues in specific ways, your fascia releases nitric oxide. So we get these local improvements of vascular stretch and nitric oxide release. Um I could go on. There's many many other benefits to rolling. Today's episode is sponsored by EightLe. Eightlee makes smart mattress covers with cooling, heating, sleep tracking, and more. I've personally been sleeping on an EightLe mattress cover for years now, and it's absolutely glorious. I love it so much that I hate traveling away from home because it means I can't sleep on my EightLe Pod 4 Ultra. As you'll hear me talk about endlessly on this podcast, there really is nothing you can do that makes more of an impact on your health and performance than getting tremendous sleep. And getting great sleep requires having your body temperature drop a couple of degrees at night and that's hard to do on your own. The eight sleep has been a gamecher for me because I run hot at night or as my wife calls it, I'm a furnace. If I don't have something like an eight sleep helping me cool down, I'll wake up in the middle of the night overheating and not feeling great. This is something I've also found in many of the people that I coach, especially those who are really physically active. The EightLe Pod 4 Ultra has two times more cooling power, yet is virtually silent. And it has highfidelity sleep tracking and even has snoring detection that'll automatically lift your head a few degrees to improve air flow and stop your snoring. If you'd like to try eight, go to eight.com/perform to save $350 off your Pod 4 Ultra. Asleep currently ships to the US, Canada, the UK, select countries in the EU, and even Australia. Again, that's 8.com/perform. Today's episode is also sponsored by Momentus. Momentus makes the highest quality supplements on the market, period. Many of you know me and you know that I do not trust the vast majority of supplement companies and for good reason. Many studies have shown that anywhere between 10 to up to 40% of supplements have accidental contaminants, intentional alterations, mislabeling, or other serious issues. But Momentus is different. I literally spent years vetting the company, their products, and leadership team before personally officially partnering with them in 2023. Every single one of Momentous's products is third-party tested to ensure quality, and many are even NSF certified for sport. Now, while I love all of their products, the ones I use the most, both personally and with my clients, are what I call the big three, and these are the omega-3 fish oil, creatine, and newly improved whey protein formula. These three supplements have fantastic data supporting their benefits. Whey protein for lean muscle mass, omega-3s for brain health, and creatine for both muscle and brain support. And they have been shown to be very safe across basically all populations of people, young, old, men, women, etc. Now, nobody has to use supplements, and I hope you never feel pressured to do so. But if you're interested in supplements, it's important that you get them from the highest quality providers. You don't want mercury in your fish oil or lead in your whey protein or anything like that. So that's why I stick exclusively to Momentus. If you'd like to give Momentus a try, go to livemus.com/perform to get 20% off your order. Again, that's live momentous.com/perform to get 20% off. I think if you were to ask most people, massage foam roll, does it help range of motion? You'd probably say, oh yeah, I again I rolled in my hamstrings and I stretched afterwards. I felt better. If you ask them about does it reduce pain, muscle soreness, again you would maybe see some conflicting results, but a lot of people say, "Yeah, like I was really tight and sore. I'm not as sore." One of the best ways to use the rolling is to offset delayed onset muscle soreness. So what they found, what Yan Wilkkey in Germany has found is that the inflammation of your delayed onset muscle soreness isn't in the muscle cells, but it's actually in the fascial fabric surrounding the muscle. This is called the epimeium. But what they found is people who did rolling prior to a workout had less of this inflammation in that 48 hour time frame afterwards. So, and one of the other fascia jokes that the fascia researchers say is we shouldn't be calling this DOMS, we should be calling it doths because the because the inflammation really is in this fascial envelope. Um, and that's also where these pain sensing neurons are picking up on that. So, if you want to offset your delayed onset, you can roll afterwards. Um, you can roll the next day, but really it's what the research is showing it's better to roll prior to to offset the DOMS. Yeah. Okay. So, the data on muscle soreness specifically is probably the most pronounced in terms of the most studies in this area, if we're talking all things fascial, if we're talking all things myofascial release, if we're talking all things kind of this whole area. But when you get outside of muscle soreness then the questions start arising like what other benefits am I getting from again we'll just collectively call all these things there a lot of questions a lot of different areas but I want to start at the very very very top right so we know that this compression stuff works let me start off with a couple of misconceptions okay or I'm not things I'm not sure on when I'm doing a foam roll when I'm doing a massage what is actually happening right there am I breaking up scar tissue. Are my fibers misaligned and I'm rolling them back together? What is actually happening at the tissue level? That explains any of those other benefits that we're going to get to way way later. What's the mechanism here? I think we have to start with describing some of the elements of fascia in general before we go into what is the tool doing to the fascia because I think what a lot of people may not understand is how alive your fascia is. I mean, your whole body is alive. There's nothing really inert or fixed about your body in general. And your fascial tissues are comprised of so many different cell types um and so many different fibers. And even though it's in general a slow to change tissue, it is very active. Fascia is your seam system. Got it. Fascia connects everything in your body from foot to face, cell to skin, and everything in between. It suspends your structures. It interconnects them. But it's not just seams. It's also the stitches of the seams, but it's also not just stitches or seams because it's not just fibrous. It's also fluid and it's self-filled. It is also invested with 250 million nerve endings. Wow. So your fascial tissues are also a major sensory organ of your body. I I didn't realize the nervous system connection or the actual nerve connection into fascia. It's mindboggling. So just wait there's more. Oh, I'm sure. But you have your skin. Yeah. Your skin and you have your muscle. But when we think of these areas again stretching and massage and I'm in pain, my muscles are sore before your work and before paying attention to all the stuff in fascia. My assumption when it was that these were muscle problems. My muscle is sore. People think that they've got micro damage in their muscles after workouts. What is this fascia stuff? So the fascia Yeah. In in your original model, you could say the fascia is the in between all of it stuff. It's the that's the seams. That's the connection, right? That's the way through. So, if I'm looking at like your jean jacket right now, yes. Like the jacket is my skin potentially. Your body is underneath that. And the seams literally are the things connecting the muscle to the skin. And well, from toe to toe to chin, right? Toe to chin, everything within. So, so we can think of fascia in a in a few different ways. And there are many different uh fascia researchers that model it in different ways. Um, I like to think of it like a stratda or like a lasagna. I think this is an easy model for people to grasp. So, you have your your skin and then directly underneath your skin, you have I mean, most people just think this is your your fat your fatty layer, but it's not. Within your fatty layer, you actually have a continuous membrane called the superficial fascia. And this superficial fascia actually subdivides your fatty layer into two different layers. Did you know that you have superficial atapost tissue and then you have deep atapost tissue underneath this this membrane? Yeah, you did. That's great. Of course. Um, but the superficial fascia also spawns these really interesting poles called retinacular cutudis. So, we have all these little tent poles between our skin, the superficial fascia and between the superfascial fascia and what's below that which is called the deep fascia. And so these these tent poles are part of what gives um our our fluffiness, the buoyancy to our shape. So underneath this these tent poles of the superficial fascia, we have sliding layers called loose fascia. This is a fascial interface. And you can find that right now. I'm covered with my jean jacket, but you can just pinch your forearm and you could you can actually move this right, left, up, down. You can even twist it. You can even pull it away. So we have um an area called loose fascia that's between the superficial fascia stuff and what's known as the deep fascia. The deep fascia is the fascia that I think most people recognize as fascia. And part of that is because this is a lot of the mechanical model of movement. Um, a lot of Tom Myers's anatomy trains um sort of uh pays homage to these continuities of these gigantic collagen strips that run from, you know, foot to face. And you can really see these in dissection. Um, so the deep fascial tissues, they are surrounding our muscles, but we don't just have one layer of deep fascia, we have multiple layers of deep fascia that glide upon each other. Um and then we can get into the interior architecture of a muscle itself. Your each muscle you have is comprised of additional multiple layers of fascia and these are subdivided like each muscle cell is surrounded by an endomium right that's like if you have one little orange ju you know in the orange you have the little tiny segment and it's surrounded by that cellulose filament and inside it's just juice. The same is an analog for your muscle and its endamesial fascia. Then when you have groups of these muscle fibers, um you're wrapped in yet another layer called parramsium. But you must be able to have movement between these epimesial sliding filaments and the parramsium. And then the parramium gathers together in lots of bundles. And then we have a we have a real muscle and that's wrapped in even more fascia that's called the epimesium. Um and these epimesial bundles is what we call a muscle. And that muscle and its epimesia must move. It must have differential movement amongst the other muscles that it's next to. And this is called glide. We have glide between all these different things. And so when you invest a tool into these tissues, we're stimulating cells called fibrolasts which produce the collagen and elastin environment. Uh we are stimulating cells called fascia sites which are chiefly responsible for keeping you slick inside. They produce an abundant amount of a substance called hyaluron. Um you're also um manipulating fibers. You're creating tension with your compression. You're creating stretch, tension, pull on these different fibers that these fibroblasts are sensing. And when the fibroblasts start to sense activity, they will start to realign things or tear things apart depending on um depending on what you're trying to do. So for example, one of the I guess the old myths that people kick around all the time is is massage or self massage breaking off scar tissue? Well, yes and no. Scar tissue is comprised of very very strong fibbrals of collagen type one and it is necessary to be there to stabilize an area that had been breached. The scar itself on the surface may look bumpy and weird and a little bit ugly. And there are some things we can do with friction that can adapt that tissue that can maybe soften the scar a little bit. But the scar is necessary to act as a permanent suture for the rest of your life. Um, but typically what we're seeing on the surface of the body, the scar is really the tip of the iceberg depending on how far down that wound was into the body. Now, if we have a breach that goes all the way to the bone, like I'll use myself as an example. I had a total hip replacement almost eight years ago. And so, you know, they had a they had a saw that greater trunker off and there were many layers that were breached. So, there's a scar path that goes from skin all the way to deep. Even though it was a very elegant surgery, you're left with a scar path um postsurgery. And ideally, you want to be able to do movements and massage that allow the fascial tissues to restore glide so that the muscles can return to their correct length tension relationships. So, when we are stimulating these tissues, we're doing uh many different categories of things. Um, one of my personal favorite reasons to do selfmyofascial release or to do foam rolling is to enhance one's propriception, to enhance one's ability to know where they are in their own body and be able to know how to move forward or how to take the next step to know where you are in space. That propreceptive enhancement has been shown to also have an inverse relationship to pain perception. So when we exaggerate or tickle these propriceptive nerve endings like rfini endings or pachini corp pusles or muscle spindle or even golgi it has an enhancement of improving our sensory motor awareness but dampening down our pain perception which is great because we do we have this analgesic effect and we have a window that we can train in in better coordination offsetting or at least putting at a distance um some of these pain signals And that means that when we train, we can then train in a better position and over time optimize our physical body so that the pain doesn't have a place to sit in our body. Right? So when we hopefully part of your your your pain management is having healthy muscles, helping healthy strong movement patterns. Um, and that is one way that doing the foam rolling or self myofascia release or self massage can be a a boon to pain reduction. And there I got to include all these different uh nerve endings as well. This is actually amazing. What you're saying is if you were to do that prior to your workouts and this has some sort of a pain dampening effect, you could then train closer to that pain ceiling but below it. Um, is this deadening the nerves? Is this getting them that the pain se receptors calm down more? Like is this exactly what you were talking about as a way for your pain management strategy? When we're in pain, we are not at our best in terms of our movement coordination. And that poor movement coordination tends to be get even more movement coordination and leads to accidents. And so we can use the tools like a selfmy fascia release tool to um essentially have a state change physically from the tissue but also it helps to create this mental swipe. And the temporariness of that is you know in in the research right now is showing that there are a lot of these acute changes um and that these things can also happen in long term but you have to do them again and again. You can't just do it once and hope for the best and it's all good. You need to have a discipline about your approach to self- rolling, foam rolling, as well as the corrective work. The foam rolling in and of itself is not going to take care of everything. You still have to change the body's behavior around why that pain set about in the first place, right? And so that is the physical management that comes along with proper exercise and whatever other things, nutrition, sleep, all of that. If I, and I've seen people do this a thousand times, if I were to take a tennis ball and put it underneath the bottom of my foot right now, maybe a baseball, a harder one, and I would roll on that for two minutes, I would probably stand up, and if I were to bend over and touch my toes, my range of motion would be greater. Right? This is the fascial connection. Right? So, I've undone some of the fascia, however you want to think about this, in the bottom of my foot. And since they transferred all the way up to the back of my spine and then or well the back of my head, hopefully that has created uh some change in in range of motion. How long does that last? A few minutes, a few hours. What do we know about the length of a single acute session for that range of motion? And is that range of motion, if that's all I did, is that going to have any chronic effect? So, one of the things that rolling on an an area like the foot. So, is there a morphological change when I roll my foot? Probably not. The research is showing that you're probably not actually changing the fascial tissues in and of themselves, even though it we can improve glide. We can improve um an a relative glide amongst many different tissues um even in a a pretty relatively short period of time within 60 seconds to two minutes. But one of the things that the research is also saying is probably that the one of the things the rolling is doing is it's adjusting your discomfort to stretch. So it's adjusting your pain pressure threshold to stretch. So there are these fluid changes, there's heat changes. Um but in a way you're inoculating yourself to the discomfort of the forward bend. And so that is allowing for a little bit more movement. But there's also some of these neural changes such as the rolling is um enhancing parasympathetic features. So perhaps um there is less muscle bracing in your range of motion check afterwards. So there are you know there's a cascade of things that are happening. I don't think we can only say oh it's the fascia that's letting me get that extra range. It's a part of it, but I think there's a few other things going on neurologically and um in terms of fluid mechanics, and that makes a ton of sense. It would be pretty silly to think if I were to roll on a foam roller for 2 minutes and then all of a sudden I get up and I have a structural change in the anatomy of my quad. It's a miracle. That would be pretty ridiculous to think, right? So, how long is that typically going to last? A few minutes? A few hours? As you alluded to earlier, if your only strategy is foam rolling or whatever the case is, it's probably not correcting it. So, what other stuff do I have to do? What things can I tack on that give me a higher likelihood of this being a more permanent change? So I I haven't seen any research that like they did the rolling and then you know they check it five minutes they check they check it 30 minutes and then you're like you're also wondering well I bet that stretch at 5 minutes helped with the stretch at 15 show up at 30 minutes but then they didn't say okay now go ahead and go to your classes and come back in six hours and let's recheck you. So, I haven't seen something like that, but I I certainly know anecdotally with the clients that I work with, we usually are rolling for a considerable amount of time. We're not just doing a two-minute roll and then hoping that our range of motion is changed for the day. We're doing strategies that are really trying to affect certain conditions or certain systems of the body or certain pain patterns. And people will have hours and hours if not days of improvement after some of these very deep and um disciplined ways of decompressing certain areas of the body or fluffing tissues as I like to say offloading um compacted tissues. I want to know what a a sample model of that could look like. But before we do that, I got a couple of quick questions on this particular topic. We asked about duration. Uh my assumption is the harder you press, the more pain you're in, the better things get here, right? Let's talk about that. That's how I that's how I really get these things changed, right? And I'm I'm not actually joking because that was actually my strategy. Thank you, Kelly. Starrat pain cave was was my approach. And I always thought the more pain I'm in, the more it's solving the problem. It's causing the release, whatever was working. So what do we know about the dosage that how long does it have to be? How hard do I have to press? More pain, less pain. Give me the quick rub down on that part of it before we get into these more comprehensive strategies. Okay. So there's a few different things to talk about. One is tool hardness. Okay. Yep. And another is it doesn't have to hurt to work. Oh, damn. I am a soft tool champion. And I will tell you right now, the soft tools were 500 times more effective for me. Yes. So stress transfer mediums are what we call the tools. This is the the mechanical term, the scientific term for self-massage tools or self myofasial release tools. So you have foam rollers, you have um balls of various hardness, you have uh roller sticks, you have little like uh pokey things. Um and hardness matters to your body because you are a living being. You are an organism that has responses. Um, it doesn't feel good to get poked with something that's hard unless you can attenuate your response to that. So that's that's a that's a that's a part of this conversation strategy, right? So what a hard tool will do is it will initiate a sympathetic nervous system response. This is called the muscle bracing response because your body doesn't want to be deformed by something that might cause pain, that might cause injury. This is a natural autonomic protective response and this is called the muscle bracing response. So there was it's just crazy to me but in the over 200 and something um published papers on selfmofascial release there was one paper that disclosed the hardness of the actual implements used in the rolling. Okay, just for perspective, you know, foam rollers are they're dense foam. They are they're very hard. Even though an individual foam cell you can compress it, when all those foams are together, that's hard like wood. It's really hard. A lacrosse ball is the same hardness as a bowling ball. Did you know that? Did not. There is no difference in the material substrate of a bowling ball or a lacrosse ball. It is the same thing. The lacrosse ball is interesting though because it's covered with this grippy um rubber which I love. I love the rubber of a lacrosse ball. But a lacrosse ball has no yield. Neither does a bowling ball. Neither does a foam roller or a hard foam roller. These will just keep pushing their weight into you and you either suffer through it or you brace against it. It causes so much discomfort. You're like, I I'm just fighting against my own tension. I'm not getting anywhere here. So this one uh Korean paper it it was very special for two reasons. It disclosed what's called durometer. That's the that's the way we measure hardness in objects. Right? So you know wood is harder than foam. Um gum is much softer than a tennis ball. Right? So we have this this scale of hardnesses um that's measured by um measured um in what's called uh the shore scale and you use a durometer to to to test for indentation hardness. So they uh this cohort used uh people with chronic neck pain and they used a cohort of over 60 year olds in Korea. So it's very unusual to have a cohort of aged people. Most research in self myofascial release is on young people in college on foam rollers. Most of them are rolling their calves, spoiler alert, or their hamstrings, Andy. Or their quads. But to find old people with neck pain. Yep. And then to either put them on a lacrosse ball or a soft inflated ball. So what do you think happened to the co? The ones that put themselves in more pain got better. Right. the hard ball folks. Um, what they found was there was a a thickening effect in the when they were measuring EMG, the muscles were just in tension. The trapezius muscles braced against the ball. So, the the ball couldn't even get to depth, right? Because the body was protecting itself. Those that used the soft ball had an increase of uh neck range of motion and a decrease of pain because the ball could get in. the ball was actually to do the therapeutic work because they weren't fighting against their own neurological tension. Um, so in my book, soft is supreme in terms of working with your nervous system rather than working against it and creating even more sympathetic stress, propagating even more pain. Um, there is uh some other research by a guy named Leonard Bloom and Mark Driscoll. Uh Leonid specializes in cerebral pulsy and he works with families um to help uh the children with cerebral pulsy to you know improve their posture and pain. Um and that he uses only soft implements uh with these kids and it really helps them to create a more spontaneous upright posture and um have better movement patterns. But what they did, what Driscoll and Bloom did is they um did some indentation hardness tests with a lot of different substrates and they made I think they made like a mock uh cell not cell culture but they were able to measure the distance of forces using these different um tools into the substrate. And what they found was that the softer tools were able to reach the furthest distance into the the body. So that's one of the reasons why I'm a really big fan of soft tools. They don't have to hurt to work. And when you're rolling and it hurts, that's a great information for you. You know, the rolling isn't about trying to make more hurt. You're actually trying to get rid of the hurt. But when you do roll into something that does hurt, that also should tell you either it's a protective response or I'm actually encountering parts of my body that are inflamed or don't move well. I think it's really good information, but you want to be able to work with that instead of um think that you can just beat it out of you. Yeah. Well, I'm still going to try to beat it out, but I appreciate you and your science, Jill. The glare. If you all just saw the glare she just gave me. No, I don't do it. I use I' I've learned my lesson from there. So, yeah. And the other thing is, you know, your own um muscular tension or your gluey tissue from uh overuse or overtraining. Um the glueiness coming from increased viscosity of this hyaluron that the fascia sites produce. Uh this is really a hot mess inside of there and we want to not have that there. And so when we get that feedback from tools, I think it's really great information that we we may be burning ourselves out and setting ourselves up for an injury down the road. So I think it is really really good feedback when we come across those pain spots, but then I think we need to to work in an informed way to reduce that um at at all costs. Today's episode is sponsored by AG1. AG1 is a vitamin mineral drink with probiotics, prebiotics, and adaptogens. Initially, I was extremely skeptical of AG1, as I am with all supplement companies. But after months of discussions with their lead nutrition scientist and the general team at AG1, I've been impressed by AG1's commitment to sourcing the highest quality ingredients and constantly updating their formulas to have the right ingredients in the optimal amounts. By now, it is abundantly clear that the gut microbiome plays a critical role in everything from body composition to bone health to mental health. And the probiotics and prebiotics in AG1 help to promote a healthy gut microbiome, improve digestion, reduce food cravings, and increase short- chain fatty acids, which play a critical role in regulating metabolism and immune responses. It's for these reasons and many others that I personally take AG1 almost every day. Now, it's of course not a replacement for eating whole healthy foods, but it is a great way to make sure that you're plugging in any gaps in your nutrition to improve your energy, bolster your immune system, and just generally help promote a healthy gut. microbiome and more. If you'd like to try AG1, you can go to drinkag1.com/perform to receive five free travel packs plus a year supply of vitamin D3 plus K2. Again, that's drinkagg.com/perform to receive five vitamin D3 plus K2. Today's episode is also sponsored by Element. Element is an electrolyte drink mix that has an ideal electrolyte ratio of sodium, potassium, and magnesium, but no sugar. Hydration is critical to performance, both physical and mental performance. Countless studies have shown that even a slight degree of dehydration, even as small as 1%, can lead to decreases in physical output and mental performance. We also know that electrolytes are critical to proper hydration, which I've been harping on for years. But you can't do that proper hydration by only drinking water. You need to get the right amount of electrolytes in the right ratios. And that's why I'm a huge fan of Element. In fact, many of you will probably remember that I featured Element in my YouTube series on optimizing hydration nearly 5 years ago. I featured Element in these videos because their blend of 1,000 milligs of sodium, 200 milligs potassium, and 60 milligs of magnesium really is unique and different than any other electrolyte on the market. And it has great scientific support. I use Element constantly, particularly when I'm sweating a lot, and I routinely make it a part of my clients optimization programs. If you'd like to try Element, you can go to drinklnt.com/perform to claim a free Element sample pack with the purchase of any Element drink mix. Again, that's sample pack. I would imagine the same logic extends to formal massage. So this is if you're thinking about the classic Swedish massage. Yes. And deep tissue, right? So obviously the the normal thing feels good. Deep tissue is great, but uh probably the same thing for any type of self-care. Uh any type of stretching if you're to the point of extreme discomfort, potentially not your best strategy because of protective mechanisms, locking up and stuff. So some amount of discomfort, but not past what, like three out of 10, four out of 10. So, I think they it's like a therapeutic discomfort. I call it comfortable discomfort, like tolerable discomfort where you can still breathe. Um, you know, you're you you don't have involuntary overflow, meaning you're not clenching your jaw. Um, I mean, some of the things that we see when I'm rolling people out in the classroom is their eyes will freeze open. Um, their hands will clench like they're holding onto a gun and a purse at the same time. Um, or you know, they'll do uh weird ticks with their jaw and and this just means they're in overflow. they're in sympathetic overflow. They're not engaging a therapeutic response and they might also actually be frankly dissociating from their body. So that to me um is a really a removal of presence. And I think you I think and this is what I write about in body by breath. It's really important that you are present with your entire being while you're doing this work so that you can um be a conscious chooser of your own healing and that it's not just happening to you because you're getting lucky or you're not bypassing it and you know sort of splitting or dissociating in the context of self- massage or massage. Now, I know I have endured massages where I finally am like, "Okay, I'm gonna leave psychologically and I'm going to let this person do whatever they want because they're not listening to me or I'm just choosing to leave, right? And I'm just going to be a shell on the table, which sounds like totally crazy, but you know, we can make those choices, too. Like, we don't always have to be totally, you know, zen and present and all of that. sometimes are like, I kind of want to see what will happen if they just maw on my vasis mediialis. Yeah. Till I bruise. I just want to see what's going to happen. Will that free up, you know, this portion of my my knee? Yeah. I would imagine then what you're saying is if you're if your myofascial release strategy is check your phone, hands come up with emails while you're cruising on a foam roller for three minutes. What you're trying to tell me is that's probably not the most effective strategy. You know what? It is an okay strategy for the fibroblasts and the fascia sites. Those fluids, those fibers, they will respond to that contact because it's just smashing moving. Yeah. I mean, it's it's fine. But I think if you really want to be in control of this remodel of yourself, you want to be aware. You want to remain aware and pick up on both the subtle and gross sensations that are percolating from these different sensory neurons at different levels within your tissues. I think this is a really nice way to frame it because it's still not negative, right? You hop on a foam roller for one minute, but bad things didn't happen, but are you getting the most bang for your buck? And this allows people to level up when they want to, right? So if you need to check out for a few minutes on the massage table, check out. Great. But if you're also then trying to use this as a strategy for many other things, there are options. And just people knowing you can use modalities like this to go after bigger problems is something a lot don't think a lot of folks really realize. So I know you have many examples of that. But before we get to any of that, I really want to dwell on double triple quadruple tap on this compression idea. Okay. I want you to walk me through. You said glide earlier. This is what I said earlier was I didn't realize you could do it. I didn't realize self massage could be anything besides compression. Oh, okay. Right. So, hit me with why am I pulling? You gave the examples earlier of your skin. I had no idea your skin should move, right? When you pull it up and pop it like, okay, great. But I didn't know it should glide past and feel like that. I didn't know when it got pinned down that that was telling me anything. I didn't realize if I grabbed the outside of my quad and I punched the skin off there, it should slide past itself. Once I realized that, once I started using your strategies and then I started watching and looking at people doing things like cupping, I was like, "Oh, there is way more to this game than just compression." So whether this is massage compression, self massage compression, foam rolling, we're still talking compression, compression, compression, right? What's the other side of this equation or the other two sides or however you frame it to be? Yes. So your your fascial tissues have the ability to move in every direction. They're vectorred in every possible angle all throughout your body. So, um, just squishing them is beneficial, but only squishing them is leaving out the possibility of offloading them or tractioning them in the opposite direction. So, um, this suction type of thing that a cup can do is just so amazing because it can allow a gapping to occur from bone to skin rather than you just pressing in from skin to bone. And that can relieve a lot of overcompression tension. um or possibly you have um some adhes adhesions or elomerations um that uh can't be helped at a certain vector and so doing techniques uh like I say in the role model we do this thing called um pin spin mobilize and this is a term that I picked up from Kelly so much right and so what we're doing is we're using uh one of the soft balls or any you can really do this with any tool as long as it has grip and you place it into your tissue and you you spin it, you twist it, you wrangle the tissue until you feel there is a tolerable pinch. Once you have that tolerable pinch, just think about that. That's a vortex of tissue that's whirled into the tool. That's a tremendous amount of stretch. And then from there, you attempt to move the tool or move your body right, left, um, back, forth. And so then that's moving that twisted knot in a variety of different ways. When I say knot, I don't mean like a muscle knot. It's that the twisted um skin, superficial fascia, loose fascia, and possibly deep fascia at that level that we're getting all this traction. And then when you release that, there'll be a ton of perfusion. Uh there'll be a a whoosh of warmth and this sudden onset of range of motion improvements um that's local to that joint, you know. So if I were uh doing that on the the rib cage, you will have such dynamic breaths after that. Um so the pin spin immobilize that includes this uh vector called shear, right? So shear is where we're getting um basically horizontal stretch. Um but you know cupping cupping is is an additional uh local traction that really stretches um skin superficial fascia all the retinacular cutis and then can even grip into deep fascia and create a force vector maybe even to the perryioium. So that's the skin the fascial skin around the bones. Um and there are of course nerve endings and blood vessels all the way at depth that are being um teased in a novel way that they're not getting dayto-day because most of right most of gravity is pushing us into ourselves instead of like I mean there's a good reason like we don't want to float off of ourselves but just think of that that feeling you get when I'm thinking about my husband um when just think about when we walk the dog and I grab him by the scruff of his neck, you know, where that coat hanger area is, right at the base of the neck, the upper trapezius, and I just traction him right in that dowardgers hump area. He doesn't have one, but you know what I'm talking about. Just like I would lift a puppy by the scruff of its skin. It feels amazing to have stretch in that direction. We just don't get it. Um, so I try to do that using uh two balls in different areas of the body to to also create that type of of offloading traction rather than a compression traction. Um, I think you'd have to look into the cupping literature to see other benefits of what that offloading type of of stretch does. And I haven't really looked into that. Yeah. How do I perform decompression by myself? And as I was alluding to earlier, this is what changed for me, right? I can foam roll my back. I feel a little bit better for 5 seconds. But when I do traction, when I do decompression, for specifically my low back, that's the big changes I get. And that lasts hours hours for for me personally. It's not the same. Other areas of my body feel better actually with compression, with smashing. Mhm. But certainly early is it is always going to be traction. You mentioned glide and slide. You talked about twisting and for people at home like visualize this. Literally pinch your skin like your little brother would pinch you and twist it and do that and keep doing that. Move it around and then you'll let it go and once the kind of pain from the pinch goes away you realize like oh my gosh that whole area is moving better now. I would just love a few more direct examples. How can people do traction and decompression all by themselves? During the pandemic, I was in peak stress just like everybody else. I was homeschooling a 5-year-old, a kindergartener and a three-year-old preschooler who had never had a computer in front of their face in their whole lives. And all of a sudden, their schools were on Zoom. and we were pivoting our company and filming all this content and it was so stressful. I started to have and also I was writing a book of course about stress regulation and I started to have panic attacks which is not and that is not in uh something that I'm not used to. I definitely had panic attacks in my life, but this was horrible. And I had come across just some anatomical body part that I'd read about before, but sometimes there sometimes a body part, especially when it's fascial topography, it doesn't stick the first time, doesn't stick the second time, it doesn't the seventh time, but finally the eighth time, I became fascinated by this particular area of the thoracco lumbar apenurosis called the lateral raft. So the thoracco lumbar ainurosis is the the plane upon plane of flat epimesial fascia that is the tendon of your lats. It's the tendon of your external abdominal obliques, your internal abdominal obliques, your transversus abdominis, your erector spina. They're also layers that envelop the soas and quadratus lumboreum. So we have a layer cake of deep fascia on the back called the thoracco lumbar ainurosis. All right. And within this there is there are these little seams where all of the layers of the thoracco lumbar app apenosis come together. And these are called the lateral raf or lateral rafé if I'm pronouncing French correctly. So I want to see if I can massage that lateral rafé. And so what I did was I I have these tools called gorgeous balls and they're soft inflated rubber balls. And the ball feels like a human hand. It's very grippy and they're very gushy these balls. And so I place them on either side of my lower back right about where the lateral raft is. Where is that? Just above the pelvic bones uh connecting to the 12th rib. So we have this little zipper. This is where this lateral raft is. I laid on my back and I had these gorgeous balls on the the girth of my low back and my sacrum was on the floor. These balls were on the sides of my low back, rib cage and head was on the floor. And I laid there and I breathed for many, many minutes using my diaphragm as an internal massage tool uh to reach my way into this thoracco lumbar ainurosis. And I experienced a lot of pleasure over the many minutes that I was there. And that pleasure was I could feel from my sacrum to the crown of my head, my entire spine was lengthening while these balls were broadening me from side to side. When I um there's a lot more that happened there, but when I finally took the balls out, I could feel that my little body I'm a little 5 foot two girly. I took those balls out and I swear to God, I had grown an inch. All of my discs had reperused. My anteriorly tilted pelvis was no longer just passively hanging out in anterior tilt in a reclined position. And I know this is the experience you had because I did this with Andy and after he did this decompression, he's like, "Oh, my my lumbar spine is not extended anymore. It just feels quote unquote neutral. It doesn't feel like it's hypertonic in this." Um, and so I had that same experience. And part of that back tension that I had was all the emotional stress of carrying this business, of carrying this family, of not having a way out. So there was a lot of emotional release that went along with this decompression because I was just holding on to so much. Um so this is a way that one can painlessly address back pain. Um that can address uh arthritis in the spine that's you know making you hold your body in a certain way. Um and that isn't a rub out. It's not like a roll out. I'm not like creating aggressive friction. This progressive position anchors these layers of thoracco lumbar ainerosis. And the breath is the tool that's creating this almost like this squeegee swipe balloon action inside your body and creating this progressive stretch from bone to ligament to disc to fascial layer to muscle uh to induce better glide throughout the entire axis. And then within that little capsule, that little position um there are so many little micro movements that one can do to address um you know very nuanced things as well. But also you think about this decompression of the spine isn't just decompressing the spine. It's also decompressing all the visceral organs that are are hanging out just on the front side of your body that are also like dealing with how they process stress or how they're processing your posture at all times. I think there are many different things that are decompressing. That is the overall emotional feeling of release. So I heard you say release when you were leading up this question. That word release in the selfmofascial release literature. Unfortunately we have this term selfmyofasial release although I think foam rolling is a horrible term also. Yes. Okay. So both I know the science hates self myofascial release. No, but you you feel this ephemeral uh psychological almost spiritual sense of something has released. Some heaviness that I felt before or some strain that I was preoccupied with has evaporated. Why? I just laid on two gushy air filled balls and I breathed. I didn't even move. I just Nothing even hurt and nothing hurt. And my breath was the movement. how subtle and amazing that is. There is I would say I don't know probably a doubling of the literature in mileage release in the last couple of years. Mhm. It is really really exploding. There was not much to I mean I would literally think it's probably doubled. You're right. So we're learning more clearly. We don't have all the answers. This is a field where we have to lean on clinicians is my opinion because the science is catching up. We're getting there. But we need to have people like you who have can simply tell us this is what I've done and this is the people and this is the the coaching access um to give us more tools because the science is is just going to be behind us for some time. So I know that there's distension with the term myofascial release and you've alluded to that earlier. It's doesn't necessarily only mean that the myofasia themselves are being released. So um do you know is there a more appropriate scientific term? Is that still kind of up for debate or landing? Um, I think I proposed like myofascial. What did I propose? Treatment or Well, I think I think massage is actually Okay. I think that's actually a right word. Well, we don't have a great term. We'll acknowledge like manipulation. Yeah, cuz the actual result the the release, we can't guarantee. We can guarantee the massage part or the manipulation. The manipulation. Exactly. Massage manipulation. I described how I came a lot of a lot of how I came about the rollouts that I do are so many of them are about stress regulation but they happen to help be so helpful for people with pain and and so many other different um syndromes but I wanted to point out about this spinal decompression um exercise what's so notable by the way it's I call it the lumbar hammock for short but in in Body by breath it's called spinal decompression via the lateral raft. It's really an embarrassment. I can't believe I overtitled that, but it's just a lumbar hammock. You're just setting up a hammock. Um, but there is a researcher in a professor in Wisconsin who is forming some cohorts right now in the firefighter community. She's had an end of one. She has a a firefighter that she's been working with who has been doing these uh these these type of rollouts, very gentle, non-p painful, not aggressive rolling. And she was really having trouble with a stress test that they regularly have to go through, I guess, to maintain their certification. They have to run um run up stairs with a heavy pack, many many many flights of stairs. And she kept breaking down. and she was having difficulty in her preparation for the test. And the professor said, "Give me a month. Let me let me work with you on some stress relieving techniques." And she shared this and a number of other the body by breath techniques. And she was able to run the test with energy to spare and with no pain. And so now she's creating a cohort of firefighters to test out some things. Um but the same researcher has also been doing this work in a much older population uh in a population of folks with Parkinson's disease and all of them say they have immediate postural improvements. Their tremors stop or diminish greatly. So there are a lot of other autonomic nervous system benefits that this type of work does that isn't just necessarily tissue dependent, right? But there are other shifts I think that are happening throughout the body that are notable and can be very helpful and you know low to no cost if you don't have balls like I'm describing. What I've done as a substitute is I've rolled up yoga mats. I mean most people can find yoga mats or something. Yeah. But the grip is important. So you need to find something to put over the towel that's going to create the grip um for you. So you have to experiment in your house. I like um like uh you know cano bottle openers that you use to open a mayonnaise jar. Those are good. You have to have a few of those. You can put those on some rolled up towels. But the grip is really important again because we're talking about this layer cake. We're talking about trying to create um horizontal forces, sheer forces that are going from skin all the way to bone. And but we're not just doing it with compression like you said. We're not just pressing in. We're trying to traction and offload. So you have to look for that in your house. Quick question. Do you have any sample videos online if someone want to see that the exercise something like that that we can link to the show notes? Yes, I have many on Instagram. I have many free videos on YouTube and I have this I think I have a 9minute version on YouTube of this one. Okay, great. So you guys want to go try that out, we can link all that directly in the show notes. Today's episode is sponsored by David. David makes protein bars unlike any I have ever encountered. They have an amazing 28 gram of protein, only 150 calories, and zero gram of sugar. That's right, 28 gram of protein, and 75% of its calories come from that protein. This is 50% higher than the next closest protein bar. Honestly, it's the best tasting protein bar I've had by a mile. While I often talk about the importance of getting one gram of protein per pound of body weight for things like muscle health and recovery and the promotion of lean body mass and satiety, the reality is that for most people, getting that one gram of protein per pound of body weight is really challenging. However, David makes that easy. Their bars taste incredible and are each packed with 28 g of protein. I eat one almost every day and always have two or three in my backpack when I'm traveling. like literally always. It probably sounds funny, but I eat them as dessert all the time. When you try them, you'll know exactly what I mean. The macronutrients, one more time, are 28 grams of protein, 150 calories, and zero grams of sugar. If you're interested in trying these bars for yourself, you can go to davidproin.com/perform. Again, that's davidproin.com/perform. You alluded to this earlier. You spoke about the diaphragm. I want to go to this side of the equation. Can we start by walking us through the two primary diaphragms we're going to be worried about here? People hear diaphragm, they forget there like multiple, four of them. Top one, bottom one. What are they doing here? And what's this got to do with our conversation? And you can see again the point I'm working to here is like how do we actually use the gut very physiologically and anatomically to get pain gone from everywhere else in my body? It's so cool. I had to write a 480 page book about it. I love the diaphragm. Sure. Oh my goodness. The respiratory diaphragm specifically. Yes. The respiratory diaphragm. The respiratory diaphragm. Yeah. This is this interesting horizontal muscle, this sort of misshapen parachute. Um inside of the rib cage, you have this um partition between the abdominal organs and your heart and lungs. And this muscle acts as a a pump for both the the viscera below it as well as the lungs and the heart above it. Um, and it's also keeping those things separate. If you didn't have your diaphragm, your small intestine would be coming out of your nose most unattractive and disgusting. So, it's it's there for for that reason. The the diaphragm, let me just uh rewind just a little bit. When you're doing that decompression exercise, one of the cues, one of the attention cues that I gave to you and to the other folks here at the perform podcast was to once the balls were in place was to deliberately breathe south of the rib cage, right? to breathe in a gutward direction, to breathe the energy of your attention into the balls that are on either side of your low back. Um, and what that enables is you to begin to sense the actual excursion, the downward movement of your diaphragm on Exactly what I felt. Yep. And then it's relaxation on exhale. This was a basically a slow forced inhale meaning you're deliberately inhaling and then I asked them to not force the exhale. So the exhale was just a what we call passive recoil in the diaphragm space or rather in the uh fascia space. So we have this inhalation where you're feeling the movement of the diaphragm into the right and left ball. Um, but what I also asked them, especially Andy, to pay attention to was, I wonder if you feel any difference in the movement on the right side versus the left as you're here breathing. And was there a difference for you? Yeah, it was I think I described it as it was so different. It didn't even feel like the same body parts. It was as different as my right knee is from my left elbow. Like it was completely separate. Totally different. These are two hemispheres of one muscle. We have a right diaphragm and we have a left diaphragm and they're inervated separately by a right and left frenic nerve. Um, and your right diaphragm is a little bit higher in your body and the left hemisphere is a little bit lower but can't sense it. You can't feel your diaphragm. This partition is devoid of muscle spindles. So, you can't really ever know. Like I can say to you right now, Andy, can you tell me the degree of contraction in your right bicep? Or can you tell me about you can tell me about the position of your elbow by thinking about your right bicep? But if I told you right now, if I asked you right now, where is your diaphragm? Yeah. Only because I know where it is when we do different parts of breathing, I would know that. But I have no kinesthetic or propriceptive awareness at all of my diaphragm. you have no prop propreceptive awareness of this muscle. Um, thank God because if you had to feel it 20,000 times a day, descending and ascending, you'd go mad. You can't afford that. This is this breathing is happening um automatically for you most of the time unless you're taking control of it. This is a skeletal muscle and we can control it. It's amazing. we can do things with the skeletal muscle um that directly impact every system of the body. The diaphragm is a node that spawns responses all over our body. Um but for me, one of the most um practical things that I do with my clients regarding the diaphragm is inducing pressures into all the tissues that connect to the diaphragm so that they can build a better mapping of it. And at the same time they can release tissues that unbeknownst to them are inhibiting the diaphragm from its full range of motion or from its potential range of motion. Now I will say one more thing the diaphragm you you do feel the diaphragm in one particular activity and that is when it goes into spasm and that's the hiccups. Mhm. So that's really the one time when you like feel the diaphragm. Other than that, it's really hard to feel. So we have to make it visible through pressure, through um uh novel breathing strategies with pressure. When I talk about pressure, I'm talking about using the especially the cordis ball or the different uh therapy balls that I use in different ways um and trying to enlarge your propreceptive and interosceptive awareness of the relationship of breathing to the diaphragm. And so one of the key places we go, there's a lot of key places, but one of them is below the diaphragm. will go into the gut because the diaphragm is sewn into the same exact fascial fabric as the transverse abdominis. And so um if your transversus abdominis uh is uh very rigid from overtraining or from sucking your stomach in, these are things that will create adaptations in the collagen network of your fascia and create a lot of of stiffness and your your diaphragm as it descends. There should be a corresponding ballooning of everything that's below it. Right? So, as your diaphragm presses down, this is called intraabdominal pressure. Your your organs are going to be they're going to bob down because they're being pressed from above by the diaphragm. Your pelvic floor will have a stretch. And there'll be a circumferential stretch. The abdomen will stretch forward. the waist and that thoracco lumbar appinosis that I was trying to get you guys to perceive should also have a corresponding distension. There's your horizontal movement right there. That's right. But most people are missing this horizontal movement um because of just the way life creates so much tension in our back body. Um low back pain is the most prevalent cause of pain worldwide. And I'm here to solve that problem. I wish. Um, so by going into the transverse abdominis with the cordis ball, um, by the way, if you've never gone into the gut to massage, I don't advise going into the gut to massage. I always advise a sideline position first to attenuate your pain pressure response because when that ball or when that object goes into the abdomen, we go back to this muscle bracing response. Yeah. Your body will do anything to get to the next breath. And if your transversus abdominis is compromised by pressure, your brain is going to start to signal pain. And that's going to get you off of the the object. It's going to be so uncomfortable. So, we have to figure out stealth ways to acclimate your body to this uncomfortable pressure that is threatening the diaphragm's movement. So, there's a lot of paradoxes in here. So we in in body by breath one of the things we do is we work with mindset. So we'll actually self-suggest things to ourselves in order to welcome this discomfort um in a tolerable way like I I'm a student of my breath. Right? So we might say something to ourselves like I'm a student of my breath or my breath is welcome here. You know things like that can be really helpful because you want to be a student of this relationship of the diaphragm to the transverse abdominis. And by the way, it's not just a transversus. There's other stuff to there, too. But, um, you know, visceral pain is also very real. When you put an object, you know, right into your Yeah. into your small intestine or your large intestine for the first time or your bladder. Uh, there might be some kickback. Yeah. Yeah. Fair enough. Duly noted. Uh, I I went for gut smash first for the record. Of course you did. Okay. Fairness. It's an easy story to tell. If uh my diaphragm isn't working, I could see how this could reduce performance, right? I could reduce my endurance because I'm not breathing correctly. I could see all the things. My question is past that. Mhm. How do I know? How can I tell if my diaphragm is working or not? I can't feel it like you said earlier. Maybe my back doesn't hurt. So, I don't have any sign of dysfunction. How is one to know if their diaphragm is working correctly? I believe you. It is the It is the center of human movement. It's all those things. How do I know? Yeah, Andrew has a quote, "Never skip diaphragm day." I don't know if he made it up or I It's I have it in my book. I think it's hilarious. Okay. Um the diaphragm is probably working if you're alive. Okay, fair. Your diaphragm is working. Yep. It's doing its thing. But your intercostals may not be rhythmically moving very well. You may have inappropriate stiffness in this relationship between the transverse abdominis and the diaphragm. Um you may not be getting good riers or you may be over breathing by using what we call accessory breathing muscles. In body by breath I break breathing into three different zones of breathing. There's zone one which is this area that we've been talking about this very relaxing gut expansion diaphragm descending. Zone two is the area of the intercostals uh in combination with the diaphragm. So we have uh rib upward rotation, rib downward rotation. And this is you know you have 12 sets of ribs on one side and 12 sets of ribs on the other. And they've got to be moving well. Um, but if you are a person who is under a lot of stress and diabolical stress, eventually if you're only doing rib breathing all the time, which is a over time, this is a sympathetic breathing style, you'll probably end up defaulting into what I call zone three breathing. And that zone 3 breathing is face, neck, shoulder type of breath where you're you really gasping for air. And you can see this in um asthmatics. You can see this in, you know, sudden onset of panic. Um but this is also not always necessarily a harmful breath. You'll have this type of zone 3 breath in an orgasm, like a really heightened sense of delight, you know, so you'll hear these airfilled type of breath that are very very shallow, but it's not a long-term strategy for health, right? So I what the way we test for it is um through uh responses to touch in these different areas. So I think that you know neck and shoulder pain uh are very common. Um and I think with the use of tech it's gotten you know worse and worse and worse because you have the the hand to eye positioning that comes from holding cell phones. So we can create we can be in the cast of a zone 3 breather more often than probably our ancestors because of our um our close environment with work and with tech. Um, and so these tensions in the face, neck, jaw, eyes, shoulders, um, all the way through the brachial plexus down into hands and fingers, um, I think are providing more sort of a simulation of zone 3 armoring that is really unnecessary for um, efficient length tension in zones one, two, and three. How would I know if I'm in one, two, or three? What would be signs, symptoms? help me figure that one out. Oh, chronic neck pain, jaw pain, um headaches, that would be somebody uh or hand pain, right? So, anything that is coming from this, you know, all the the areas that I described. So, this would be uh we would be addressing that in zone three. What do we do for that? Well, typically I'll do some zone 2 work first because you don't really get your shoulders to sit on top of your rib cage well unless your rib cage is able to upwardly and downwardly rotate well. So, um I'll do a lot of sideline positions um on the cortis balls on the on the rib cage and I'll train people to use the ball as an elastic bio feedback. So, they'll they'll do breathing in side lying also in front lying. So they'll they'll place the the ball on their sternum um with their body weight and feel the intrathoracic pressures changing as they breathe into the tool. And so you start to pick up on the movements of breathing. Um and these sensing of the movements of breathing helps anchor you into more and more appropriate long-term healthy breathing patterns, which is zone one, zone two is really where you want to be most of the time. And you want to use zone 3 in case of emergency. You're trying to cross the finish line, by all means, like breathe however you need to breathe. Breathe however you're going to breathe, right? So we need zone 3 to be filled. But if it's always armored, if it's always in this high stress position, you can see right we're on camera. If you're looking, I've got my shoulders pinned up into my ears and my my head is being thrust forward. U my upper back is rounded. You know, I've got nowhere to go. Boxism, chronic headaches. I would imagine this would be the same story, right? Pretty, you can't go as far as to say that's always because you're breathing that way, but I would imagine there's some pretty reasonable correlation between somebody who is in zone three breathing as you're mentioning and again chronic headaches, migraines, bxism, jaw glitching, the whole thing, right? Even a apnea, sleep apnneas, right? So, this nighttime um unconscious um um mouth, jaw, tongue behavior that is deadly. And so, what you're really trying to do is to get them to be more self-aware by spending more time in two one and two. You're saying you'll realize you're in three and you don't even know it. Yeah. Yeah. So, I call this playing your wind instrument. So by becoming aware of the feedback of the soft tissues in these different zones uh you can really make choices about I mean obviously your physiology is your physiology. I live in LA. We had fires in LA. I couldn't believe what happened um to me psychologically when this this devastation was going on. So doing um practices that familiarize you with your own zone 1, zone 2, zone 3, and that you have ways to at least flip the stress switches now and again um and bone up on practices that build your recovery resilience or at least uh fill up your parasympathetic cup rather than continue to overload the sympathetic cup. Uh I think this is this is what I'm referring to in terms of playing your wind instrument. But for me pressure is always a part of that because that is what's giving you the bio feedback about which zone is my home like where am I mostly breathing into? Could you give me a one sample of what something like that would look like? I'm laying there on my side. How many breaths am I taking? How long am I staying there for? Am I doing this every day? multiple times a day. I know the answer is, you know, depends and all the situation, but what would be, you know, kind of a sample strategy here. This can change within two minutes. Yeah. Yeah. And you want to do the other side. Obviously, you want to do both sides. Um, but, uh, I like to do a lot of contract, relax type of exercise there because that also plays with some of the barerrow receptors in the aorta. And so we get a really interesting I think veagal veagal rush from doing some of these breath hold contract. Let me describe that to you. So so you're laying on your side and I have many videos on Instagram that cover this. And um you can put like a block or a pillow underneath your head and you have a soft gushy ball like gorgeous or something else underneath your ribs and you take a dynamic breath a zone 2 breath that really broadens the rib cage like Popey. You hold your breath and then you stiffen. You activate those muscles that moved your ribs apart and then you exhale and let go. So you can exhale passively and just let it all go. Um, but you can also build on the exhale strategy and try to void your lungs of air. So, let's say we inhale, hold, contract, and then exhale, and then once you think you're empty, then blow out four more candles on the birthday cake. Blow out six more candles on the birthday cake till you get to such a absence of intrathoracic pressure that you have a spontaneous um inhalation. So, there's lots of different tricks to work on creating this elasticity of the rib cage. And I do find that doing both ends, this dynamic inhale hold and then the exhale with the, you know, really forcing the air out, forcing the air out, not in a way where you're um pinching your face and scrunching your eyebrows and going into a zone 3 reactivity, but truly using the intercostals and the diaphragm and the transversus abdominis to get the air out. Um, this is a really great way to build that just the costal recoil. And when you do that, you do the both sides, you're this really helps the costal vertebral joints also. So, you're going to find that your thoracic spine, your whole spine is going to have better mobility, especially um rotation, like transverse plane rotation. It's it's amazing what it does. So, I'd imagine once a day to start to get that going and see what happens, right? And you could probably get better. Once a day. Do you want me to prescribe? Everybody get down a little bit every day. Oh, it makes such a difference. Morning or night would be better. Um, I like if I'm going to only do it once a day, I'll Boy, that's a really hard call. You got one, Jill. Give me one. Do I got to do it? Let's say I'm dealing with headaches and jaw pain at night. Rox, yeah, you got to do this in the morning. Well, okay. Okay. Excuse me. You need to do it at night and the morning. Okay. Okay. You're not going to just let me get away with No, you're not. No, because uh one of the things pre-bed uh and I've seen this happen in my students um doing many of these parasympathetic exercise. So all the by the way all these exercises that I'm describing are going to do what I call turn on your off switch. They will accelerate a parasympathetic dominant state. um and again keep pushing off this weird sympathetic overflow. So when people have the jaw grinding happening at night, they get incredibly um incredible soreness in the all the muscles of the face. Um a lot of this is uh you know beyond your control. This is just happening unconsciously. Um but what I have seen in students that do a number of these exercises also exercises for the face, neck and head, not just a cordous ball in the rib cage, but we need to address the temporal mandibular joint, the temporales muscle, um other um muscles that are floating in the the superficial fascial layer of the face. This is very interesting. Um can help to adjust that sympathetic switch. By the way, these muscles of the face that I'm describing, they also share source nuclei in the the brain stem with the vagus nerve. And so this is another way to just stimulate the vagus from a palpation point of view combined with this breathing type of exercise that also is pushing the gas on your off switch. So, I think the more you can dose up on a parasympathetic stimuli prior to bed, um you may find over time that you have less and less of this unconscious clenching overnight. But I would say if you know you have pain in the morning every day and you want to go work out, just do a little bit of the work and then it'll free up so much of your range of motion and change the pain as we described. You know, we talked about earlier. So, why not do a little bit in the morning and do a little bit at night? Yeah, it makes sense, right? Get into good positions before you go train and then getting into good positions before you go to bed. Like, how could you not do that? When we think about stress, autonomic nervous system, all right, we have our our two branches. We we'll keep it as two for now, right? So, we have our sympathetic nervous system, fight and flight. We have our parasympathetic rest and digest. There's more to the story here, friends. Yes, I'm aware, but for the sake of conversation, we'll keep it right there. Most people assume if I'm not at a high heart rate, if I'm not mentally stressed right now, that my central nervous or my my sympathetic nervous system, my fight or flight is not on. But there's a very clear difference between not being on and actively pressing the gas or turning what do you say turning off on more? Turn on the off switch. Turning on the off switch. How should we think about this? What are strategies we can do to be more effective at turning the off switch on more? Did I capture that correctly? Yes. Yes. So, one of my goals with writing Body by Breath was trying to sell this notion of parasympathetic tolerance. I think that we are we're not in a parasympathetic dominant society. We're not parasympathetic dominant beings. We're sympathetic dominant beings. Um, but without doing without investing in our own recovery, um, it's hard to keep producing. It's hard to stay creative. It's hard to keep thinking clearly. It's hard to make decisions for your family. Um, it's hard to pick out which freaking color curtain you want to have in your in your new office. So it really is important to be able to um create the physiological ability to allow parasympathetic virtues to arise within your body. So I call this parasympathetic tolerance capacity and um I personally need it for my own well-being. Otherwise I just I mean I will just grind it out. Like I will just go non-stop. Um I think that's just part of my own family lineage. Like you just you go go you produce you produce you produce. So um and I think that um one of the things that I've also picked up from the fascia research space is that when we are constantly in a sympathetic aroused state exposed to shots of our own adrenaline and cortisol constantly there are adaptive changes in our fascial tissues because of it. So namely your um fibroblasts it's been shown when they are exposed to adrenaline um don't have an immediate change but uh after 24 hours the fibroblasts they convert due to the presence of something called TGF beta they start to convert into like a gremlin version of a fibroblast which is a myophiroblast and a myophiroblast becomes comes a contractile cell within the the fascial network. And these myofibrolasts actually have meiosin in them and they are prevalent in people who have uh thickened fascia, non-gliding fascia. This was first found in thoracco lumbar apparosis. It was first found in people with low back pain. This high prevalence of these myophibro blasts and um but it doesn't happen immediately. So you can you you can be startled and then you can calm down and get on but these repeated insults. So the presence of adrenaline um over a course of 24 hours this uh the fibroblast will start to uptake um TGF beta and this will convert into this myophibroblast but what happens with that is it starts to shrink the tissue and it's at a very slow rate. So you don't all of a sudden become tight um like I said in a day, a day and a half, but over the course of a month um you will have 1 cm of tensioning in these tissues. So exposing yourself to stresses is very important for adaptation and for health. But the chronic soaking in a stress response will change the nature of your connective tissue and you will have tissue thickening. and this can lead to pain problems. So, exposing oneself to parasympathetic practices as a way to offset um and refill your cup, so to speak, I think is a really great way to consciously balance our life because there there's never not going to be enormous amounts of stress showing up in our life. Um but having this as a respit that's within you like this is your own internal medicine chest. In body by breath I talk about um the five Ps of the parasympathetic nervous system. There's really five Ps that this is a self-produced recipe that will change state guaranteed every time. So the first P is perspective. And so this is that that mindset piece. There's a top-down appreciation that you are willing to create conscious change or conscious awareness. So that top down is a is a host for the experience. So if you just go into rolling willy-nilly, will it do something? Yes. But if you're really trying to, I think, improve your parasympathetic tolerance, you want to be there to receive the information that your body is going to start to share with you. Because one of the things that happens when you turn on your off switch is quite frequently in the off switch, your emotions arise. And those emotions can be pretty unpleasant and intolerable. And it's but it's very important because that's what's in the way of for many of us of communication of growth of relational uh relational safety all those things. So perspective um for example, one of the perspectives that that I worked with when I released the book is all of me is welcome here because releasing a book and you know because you've written books you are that's my entire brain that's my my everything I feel think and perceive is like in that book and so it's really scary to you know what if this word is wrong what if I got this theory you know what if I misappropriated something or you know it's so all of me is welcome here and that really helped me with uh a lot of the public speaking that I did post that book but something more simple than anybody can do is like I embody my body I love that one because it's just like Okay, I embody my body. And so it allows you to be a student of this internal process. Parasympathetic dominant state is not a loud state. It's very quiet. So you really have to put yourself into a state of deep listening and sensing in order to um to have it manifest. So perspective. The second P is place. And place ideally for true quietude, for true parasympathetic arousal, um you need to have a place where you feel safe. And that could be, you know, indoors or outdoors, but it should be relatively quiet. Ideally, for the relaxation response to occur, it should be on the darker side. So, not in the presence of bright lights, not in the presence of a lot of noise like clanging, kettle bells, you know, and things being slammed here and there. Um, but when we work with teachers, we we tell them how to set up environments where they're able to establish place for their students so that their students feel like they can let their guard down, right? Because you can do this stuff in a gym. You can um you can also do it in a war zone. We have people working in refugee camps doing this type of work. So it's just about setting up parameters of like here's our space to let go to be able to be vulnerable. So your perspective, you have place. The third is position. And position can change your physiology immediately. As soon as you recline, there's just no more postural stress on your heart and your diaphragm and you're able to not have as much sympathetic tone in your body. So, we always encourage people to typically to recline or to even boost that by going into a gentle slope position, which takes advantage of the barceptor reflex. So, if we can put people in a position where their pelvis is just a little bit higher than their heart, higher than their head, right, in a little bit of a gentle slope, um that'll really enhance a veagal dominant state. So, you've got and also just getting on the ground feels so good. And of course, there's all this research about earthing and whatnot. So, go with gravity, perspective, place, position. Four, pace of breath. pace of breath or pneumatic pacing if we want to have two P's there. Um breath pacing exercises can alter your your state and I'm sure you've talked about this on your podcast but slow deep breathing is primal um you know uh the HHP foundation I know you are aware of the health and uh human performance foundation which um is a great amalgamator of all breath research and it's free and available online. and Tanya Bentley is their founder and Brian McKenzie is also one of the co-founders. So they recently put out a systematic review on all the breath research that was targeted towards anxiety reduction and what they found in you know running all the the numbers on the on the different papers is that slow deep breathing was for five minutes daily is really the the sweet spot. uh you can do a mix of fast-paced breathing with slow breathing, but you mustn't only do fast breathing. Fast breathing alone is not going to alter your stress response. You must include the slow pace breathing. Uh so I really appreciated this um this paper from them because it certainly validated, you know, my instincts and and what I've seen in my clients. So, um, extended exhales tend to be really beneficial, but you can also do extended inhales. Just make your breathing slow paced. And I would add to that, let's also not um use our zone 3 muscles for that breathing. So, I mean, obviously slow breathing is going to be involving zone one, zone two. And then the fifth P is palpation. And we've been talking about this palpation via selfmyofascial release um you know the whole time that we've been talking um as a way to dampen sympathetic outflow and to enhance uh sensory feedback both propreceptive and subtle sensing interosceptive feedback into the body and this all enhancing the relaxation response or this parasympathetic dominant state. So for me, this this recipe of the five Ps um is something that's very doable and can happen in a very cohesive time frame of of this five minute time frame. Um like the simplest thing I could suggest to your listeners is you can just get down on the ground and put your pelvis up on something like a corgis ball. Um because that's going to give you traction. So that there's the palpation piece. Um, and you're already, you know, positioned in the recline and you do very, very slow breathing there. You're hopefully in a safe place where you're doing this and then you say to yourself, you know, my breath is home or I embody my body. One of those things. And there, there you have it for five minutes. Super easy. I really appreciate you laying that out. That is going to be phenomenally effective for a lot of people. I guarantee it. The last thing I want to draw into all this is then how does this relate to things like the pelvic floor, right? So we I said earlier there's multiple diaphragms. Oh, sure. Pelvic floor is a diaphragm, right? This is it's just the bottom one, right? Um I admittedly don't spend a ton of time on pelvic floor development, but this is a clear aspect of it, right? So, how does the the pelvic floor and we could certainly do an entire discussion, many of them on the pelvic floor, but what are the the top hitting things as it relates to the conversation thus far that we should be thinking about with the diaphragmic floor? Uh, so one of my friends, Katie Sinclair, calls the respiratory diaphragm the thoracic floor, which I think is hilarious, right? Um, and the this pelvic floor is another uh tissue that has uh horizontal fibers like you know crisscrossing at this bottom of the uh bony funnel of the pelvis and the it looks quite similar to the respiratory diaphragm by the way like reasonably. Yes. And it's going to have movement that mirrors the action of the thoracic diaphragm of the respiratory diaphragm rather. So as the diaphragm descends and applies pressure into the visca um and provides this distension the circumferential distension to the core there should also be a little bit of stretch in the pelvic floor. Um unless your pelvis is a kimbo unless your pelvis is your pelvis is rotated pretty far out of the pressure wave of the diaphragm. So if the the diaphragm isn't be able to exert this rhythmical pressure down into the pelvic floor, it's probably going to exert it elsewhere. And so one of the classic shapes is you see the kind of the banana back that rib thrust anterior tilted pelvis. So if the diaphragm isn't pressurizing down to create stretch in the pelvic floor, which is very healthy for it, it's going to pressurize forward into the front of the abdomen into the rectus sheath into a a strong ligament called the len alba, which often is breached and creates what's known as a diiaasis recti. So these are fascial systems upon systems. These are um connected sheets that rely on the correct amount of integrity in in all layers for this great global response. That's actually really really helpful. People have oftenimes heard of things like rib flaring, right? And you just described it a little bit differently. So imagine again your the bottom of your ribs are opening up. Instead of the bottom of your ribs pointing directly down, they're pointing say at a 45 degree angle out. Therefore, when you breathe and you're expanding that, that pressure is now going outwards horizontal to your body instead of vertically, which then pushes on the pelvic floor to get it to move correctly. You're also then reducing pressure posteriorly. Right? And that matters because that's the low back getting pinned down again. Right? Like low back victim yet again. Right? There you go. Right? So, it's all of this stuff. That's why stacking is like we we'll use that term pretty colloally. stacking those two diaphragms on top of each other is the optimal scenario. Yes, they're both tilted front or back, we can live. It's when they are offkilter and the pressure, whether it's the bottom one, by the way, or the top one. So whether this is pelvic tilt causing the problem or rib flaring or the opposite, either way, we're in dysfunction, which can manifest itself, as we've been saying all day, in a thousand different things. Yeah. I mean, there's so many different things to discuss here. It's like, oh, well, you've got chronic hip pain. That's going to move your pelvis a little bit away from your center of mass so that you're not putting as much weight on that uncomfortable hip or knee or ankle or whatever it is. But, you know, people people are perfectly imperfect. We're incredibly uh adapted to our asymmetries. Um, and that's uh for the best. Uh, but there's probably better and better ways. And I think this is one of the places that I love talking to Kelly about is, you know, looking for uh being able to centrate joints so that they have more options of movement because if you have rotated off of axis so considerably that your range of motion in a as we account for joint by joint um then we can get into a lot of trouble and that's where doing you know some really good fascial work self myofascial release um in very specific joints in very specific ways can um allow for a restore a restoration of elasticity and muscle function um in tissues that have been compromised by position. So this is something I I mean I love working with people to you know tune up these little areas that have become messed up by you know scar tissue or positioning or injury because you see the you see the this remodeling happening over time. The remodeling is the collagen network adapting to your new normal. Yeah. What are the accepted best practices for dealing with diastasis recti? My friend Katie Bowman, she wrote a book called Diastasis Recti and she's one of my favorite movers and thinkers in the movement movement space. And uh her book, one of the things that she t talks about is that dasis erecti is a whole body issue. Mhm. It's never just that you have this over streretch syndrome in the abdomen, but there were there were probably things that um led up to your uh body harboring more anterior pressures. Mhm. Although if you are carrying triplets and twins um or if you have overtensioned your abdomen through overtraining um this can also be problematic when when time when the time comes for the abdomen to stretch. So let me backtrack a little bit. Diasis recti is a breach of the connective tissue link between the right and left halves of the anterior abdomen. So we have these deep fascial layers that lock themselves around the rectus abdominis, the obliques, the transverse abdominis, and they all zip into a common ligament called the lana alba which um connects from the bottom of your sternum all the way to your pubic symphysis. And this is an incredibly uh a lot of integrity in this system. And this is how you get your core force production. Um, we've got the right half and the left half of our abdomen working well together to stabilize our spine, our pelvis, and do all the things, help us to breathe. You can imagine uh playing what's what's the game like the doctor game where the uh the kids can go in and try to operation, right? So, you imagine a slit going from your sternum all the way down. You would spllay left and right horizontally and you would spllay vertically, right? You would open up in all four areas. That's exactly the line you're talking about. Yes. If you can imagine. And I'm basically saying this little piece for the male audience because I know every female listening knows exactly what you're talking about already. But if you think about a six-pack and you think about the muscles are two columns of three, right? So one next to each other, left and right, five and five. I mean, I've seen dissection where you've literally got one one rectus abdominis from soup to nuts on one half and then the other one you had one uh one divided by a small tendon inscription. I've seen so many anomalies in the rectus. So if you can't get a six-pack, boys, it's because you got a one and a half pack by birth. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, that middle middle line between the two columns is exactly what you're talking about. This is a fascia. This is a connective tissue issue. This is why we're talking about it, right? So when that becomes spled open, you have that effect of of the operation. You've had a tight line. You called it a zipper. Perfect analogy. It's supposed to keep those two sides connected so force can transfer and everything else. It's not working. It's it's damaged or whatever, however you want to phrase that. What it really a 100% of women get a diiaasis recti during pregnancy and that is granted by the amount of elastin and relaxin um that's produced um from your growing fetus and all of the hormonal changes that happen within you that change the elasticity of the tissue you must enlarge in order for the fetus to grow. And so the accommodation we have is we have these elastic changes in our fascial tissues. The problem with a diiaasis recti is in you know after birth for some women um it can take many many months. Um there is never a resealing so to speak of the you know the heat seal like as if you were a meat a meat packer that it never gets reinforced and there is a very wide gap and that gap is then filled in with superficial fascia atapost tissue and collagen but it doesn't have the strength or integrity um that you had pre-birth and so um this is very problematic for force production through the core we're not getting transfer of forces from right to left or from top to bottom. We have a propriceptive deficit. Um and you know it it is integral. I mean I've seen these I mean you've got it's it's a good connection between the right and left in terms of the the fatty layer that has filled it in but we don't have the muscle force production in a cooperative way. And so um these women can have symptoms for years of back pain, pelvic pain, incontinence, prolapse um but you know people who are more lax in their connective tissue tend to be more prone to get these um diiaasis that linger. So most will close about 66% will end up after a year they'll have almost no legacy of a separation and then you have this this this you know third of women that are outliers. Okay. Okay. Well, that's important to know. Again, speaking I'm sorry to offend, but mostly to the male side of the equation here, a year, not not six weeks, not not six weeks, not 16 weeks, right? This is 2/3 by a year, which means a third still after a year are not back, right? So, when we go back to this discussion on the fibroblasts, they're a slowmoving cell. Yeah, they are going to repair you, but you need time and you need consistency to allow that collagen remodeling to occur, right? It will or it won't. I mean, sometimes it just doesn't because there's pathology or there's there are, you know, maybe you have hyperlapse tissue. Um, but what one of the things that Katie talks about is that the diiathesis is a whole body thing and we really need to address um hip, pelvis, low back and we really need to address shoulder, rib cage to adjust the position of the rib cage to try to optimize consistently the position of rib cage to pelvis and then do exercises that um co- occur with breathing rhythms because by the way Your breathing is the lining of your core. These breathing muscles are the lining of your birthday suit. We need to use them appropriately to try to build correct tension over time. But it's not something that can be rushed, but it's definitely something that needs to be done. I mean, you really should be doing um these type of breathing exercises during pregnancy as well. I mean, hopefully. And this is a longer story. It's a much longer story. Sure. I do have a chapter in body by breath that covers diiaasis recti and also um self-massage application for that and I will say this is one of the warnings I have if somebody does have a diiaasis recti is you don't want to put a ball right in the center of the area that is overstretched but you want to really think about um creating movements that would move the core muscles from the side to the middle. So you think about uh creating vectors of pressure that don't necessarily scrub over the midline, but they move from the side to the middle and doing that in in a variety of different ways with different breathing exercises and then with tension based exercises to try to rebuild tension on axis. So this is not something that's easy to describe in a podcast, but and it's very personal because each woman um will have a different level of stretch. Um, you know, some people have just more more of their right side moved away from the midline. Maybe it's not both sides that moved away, right? Maybe the baby was sitting in a way because babies sit weird in your uterus, man. They just do weird things, you know, just sort of jammed up against the the right side of your abdomen with a little bottom there for the the last two and a half months. And it just puts so much stretch load on, you know, the external abdominal oblique um and the transversus. maybe the the you know you don't have that much gapping. Anyway, there's different ways to measure this with fingers and you definitely need to get y get it checked out by a pelvic floor PT. They're the ideal people to diagnose um and to give input on that. But these things are a fascia based injury. Amazing. We could certainly do a whole show just on Dr without question, but I think we'll leave people right now with saying pelvic floor physical therapist would be the place to go. And generally your recommendation for for this area for people that want a program they're dealing with right now or maybe they're pregnant or going to become pregnant, so on and so forth. That would be the the broad category people to to start off with at least, right? Yes. And I would also if you know you're pregnant or you want to get pregnant, I would get diastasis the book by Katie because she talks about exercises pre, during, and post. They're it's an excellent book. What you're talking about is a case of kind of hypermobility, right? I consider the pregnant body on the hypermobility spectrum. And when we have pregnant students, we treat them like a hyper mobile client. And there are differences in terms of rolling with a hyper mobile body than a non- hyper mobile body. For sure. I love working with the hyper mobile population. And just FYI, according to Jessica Eckle's research, 20% of people have some degree of hypermobility. Not this is not to say that it's pathological. It's not to say that it's um you know, Ellers Danlos or Marfon syndrome, but like 20% of the population is pretty loose. So, I've come up with a framework for rolling with hypermobility. And one of the uh other clinicians I follow, I love her work. I wrote the forward to her book is Libby Hinesley. She wrote yoga for bendy bodies. And she's got great information in there for um practicing if you if you are hyper mobile. And so, I would include the pregnant cohort in here. Also, um number one is breath. Use a conscious breathing practice while you're rolling because it will tune you into interceptive feedback. Um, it'll also put you in touch with a calmer nervous system. Uh, hyper mobile bodies tend to be higher in anxiety in general and the there are changes in brain regions. This is the work of like I mentioned Jessica Eckles and Hugo Critley. You can look this up. It's so fascinating. Um, so when you're rolling, if you know that you are hyper mobile, you should stay towards muscle bellies. So these are all B's. We've got breath, bellies. Stay in the belly. Don't go rolling at the joints. Why don't we know? Why don't we just want to roll at the joints? Because makes sense. Bony junctions are where dislocations happen. So that's one of the the third B's. Avoid bony junctions because you couldn't easily dislocate. um because there's just less muscle there's less muscle mass there and you're hanging out in your joint capsules and your ligaments there. Regarding rolling in the bellies, the other thing about rolling in the bellies is a lot of times um like you were mentioning, there will be these hypertonic areas in people with hyper mobility and we want to be able to restore good length tension so they can really get appropriate strength in agonist antagonist relationships. And so rolling within the muscle bellies might help us to decouple some inappropriate trigger points or inappropriate hypertonic regions. So that's that's the aim. Um the fourth B is brace. So using contract relax techniques. You're not always trying to roll to the bone. You're not always trying to get all the way at depth. So I can do rolling that can address some of the more superficial tissues by creating um a little bit of muscle bracing. And that's going to allow me to roll superficial fascia and also to roll loose fascia transition with the deep fascia. So I can where normally I would say contract relax um to amplify parasympathetic values in most bodies when I'm dealing with a hyper mobile person especially let's say they have um hypermobility in certain spinal segments I actually want them to keep some amount of tension in there while they're rolling so I can get some of the benefits some of the maybe the parasympathetic benefits of rolling but I don't want to lose some of my support benefits so that's it's very personalized there. Um and then yeah to avoiding going all the way to depth and again dislocating. So the bracing can be very important staying superficial. So this takes us back to superficial fascia. We can reap a lot of the parasympathetic benefits of rolling and the propriceptive benefits of rolling. by staying in the skin, the fatty layer and the superficial fascia. The majority of the sensory neurons um within the the nerve net that's associated with the fascial tissues, the majority of them are in the superficial fascia. And so I can get a lot of propriceptive bang for my buck by staying on the surface. And um that might be all it takes to give the that propreceptive feedback to a very loose person to improve their positioning. So a lot of times and this goes along with the contract relax also um a lot of the time with the very hyper mobile person they have a really hard time sensing uh where their joint junctions are. They blow past them which isn't good for overall stability. I mean they can go there and they should occasionally but maybe not load in a really weird vector right so working superficially and working with the contract relax can then heighten my propriception of of my body um and then I also say with hyper mobile people like when in doubt don't roll it out you can cause injury you don't necessarily always know until it's a day too late but um I do encourage people who are hyper mobile to roll out especially if they are the the highly anxious type or also have digestive challenges. So you know in hypermobility when you think about um super loose people super bendy people it's not just the fascia that's comprised of collagen but all of your organs are comprised of collagen and there are you know your your eyes are comprised of collagen. There are so many other weird symptoms that hyper mobile people will have. Um, uh, breathing problems, um, autoimmune challenges. A lot of them have mass cell activation challenges and, um, uh, IBS symptoms. So, there's just like a host of things. So tamping down the sympathetic overflow, putting them into a place where they can be reflective and calm is I think very very helpful for for all of that. Going to the other end of the spectrum, somebody that needs to gain flexibility, needs to gain um mobility outside of of course, you know, the foam rolling and things you've described so far. Where does static stretching land in this equation? Do you like it? Do you hate it? Should it be done in a particular way? Oh, I love all movement. I love I know you do. Static stretching. I love isometric work. Um, where does it fall for people who are very um muscle bound or maybe even what we would call scar tissue bound? So, somebody who maybe has overtrained like say they want to have a really big bubble muscles. I call these people where you have just a more bicep than is necessary for you know general health. Um but they've done it by really overtraining. Um I think a combination of rolling and static stretching. What we see with the the rolling can actually allow for that temporary elasticity to show up. You can actually improve joint positions after rolling. So, I'd recommend that as a prescriptive for them. Um, and you can roll the bicep. You can do um techniques called stacking where you have like the balls like a vice on either side of the bicep. Yeah. Um, you can also just, you know, lean against the wall with a block between your rib cage and your arm and you have a ball here and you have a ball here and you just lean and create like a pancake of your bicep and then do different movements of the elbow, different movements of the shoulder and create different vectors and that can in increase elasticity so quickly. And then I would work on static stretching just to to do longheld traction within the fascial tissues. But I would also work on the antagonist. So that would there would need to be some tricep work. Um I'm just thinking about this particular model. I mean but you also need to work into the forearm because you've got you know myofascial expansion into the uh membrane between the radius and the ulna. You know this basically is perryostial sheath. So there's there's a lot more to it, but um I've seen this in many clients and they're always shocked that after a few days of rolling and static stretching that they gain generalized improvements in range of motion all over their body. Um but they're they're really not going to do it on their own. They need to Yeah. Some of these people they just they just they need to be led day after day. um and then their mind is blown and then they go right back to their overtraining after that. You mentioned at the very beginning and I and I said when I tend to think of manual therapy I almost always associate this as pain. In other words, I did too much training in my quad. I'm going to roll it out so I'm not so sore. Or I think about I'm tight, right? So I'm going to use these two things. I basically didn't think about this area at all outside of those two cases. Either I'm tight, so I want to release things more. I'm my back's bound up. I'm tight from a 12-h hour plane flight or you you following stuff or and I'm sore. You just alluded to some of them now, but what are some of the other benefits that have been shown either scientifically that you're aware of or just you've seen in your clinical practice that we can get from and we'll just keep calling it selfmmyofascial release or similarish things? There are so many benefits to self myofascia release. Um now mind you I already mentioned I have a bias. I'm a ball softball person. This is the evidence from all the literature. So this is a combination of rollers and sticks and tools. This is not about vibrating tools, by the way. So this is like just really cheap implements that anybody can do home care with. Um so it improves movement coordination. You just gain better propriception by rolling. Um it improves range of motion and mobility and that those changes can be obvious very very quickly. um either rolling like along the spine, you can change your shoulders. Rolling around the knee, you can uh rolling around the knee, you can help your hip, you can help your knee. So, uh it works everywhere. Uh the surprising I think some of the surprising thing is that the rolling improves torque. So, when you roll, the muscle that you're targeting will be able to generate more forces afterwards. Um and this is specifically with rolling, not necessarily static compressive. So, um, that I'm not I'm not sure of. I don't think anybody's done that research with torque and just, you know, but there's a lot on actual strength and torque in in this specific realm. So, regardless of that other section, who cares? We know for sure. Uh, and it's been shown again many times at many angles that this stuff will enhance acute force production. That's great. Um, it decreases pain. There you go. That's great. Yeah. You woke up, you're sore, get on the ball. Yep. roll yourself out and go practice again. Um, it reduces arterial stiffness and improves vascular and epithelial function. It's really good. You know, we don't want to have sticky vascule that's for sure. So, getting stretch um through this um you know, pressure and uh ringing very helpful. Um it decreases delayed onset muscle soreness. So whether that it times it out so that you get it on day three instead of day two or you just have less of that inflammation. So that's a good thing. Um it induces physiological relaxation and parasympathetic features which is one of my favorite parts about it. Yeah, of course. It's a chill pill without taking a pill, right? Um it reduces lympadeema and uh decreases local tissue inflammation. And there's some really cool research out of Harvard. Uh Bo Reio did some uh research with very very soft tools. I'm talking about the amount of pressure that a pencil eraser would exert if you dropped it into your hand. Um when they they destroyed some anterior tibialis of of mice and they did these uh very gentle oscillations using this implement. The mouse can't do self myofasial release. So this was administered through these little like little tiny vices. Um, but the it was a very very soft latex, not a hard um thing. So, I'm extrapolating here uh for that because yeah, the mouse did not roll itself. Uh, but it was a tool. Yeah, we get it. There's some research out of Germany. Dr. Robert Schlip is one of my favorite fascia researchers. He's one of the originators of the fascia research uh congress and the fascial research society. He has found um with this uh group he's working with in a uh mental health institution there that the rolling is helpful from major depressive disorder. Oh yeah. Um they're doing surveys um you know very regarded surveys you know before and after rolling uh around affect around memory and cognition and they're finding that the rolling um changes some of the uh tissue mechanics as well as um improves their emotional affect. Um, and then finally, it's helpful for interosception and sustained attention. So, there's some work um out of Canada. Um, I'm blanking on that researcher's name. Well, I'm sure we'll find that and hopefully put it in the show notes for you, but I can appreciate all this stuff because I didn't appreciate any of that before really coming across some of the stuff you were doing. And I know that the field is evolving. We're learning more. This is a particular area that I actually don't care that much about the molecular mechanisms. I'm interested in. I think it's really cool. We do. The fascia researchers are very interested in it. I know. I know you are. But why I'm saying I almost don't care is I didn't care that this was working because it was repairing tissue damage inside a muscle or if this was a nervous system or if this was a connective I I didn't really care. What I cared about was I don't hurt as much anymore afterwards or I'm seeing this change. Is this helping me get better? It's interesting. I of course as physiologists like to hear the the things. We'll learn more about it. I'm sure the field will get more specific. You'll find different tools, different strategies, techniques work for better applications and outcomes and all that, but it's incredibly valuable in my opinion to have people like you who know the science based on where it stands now. We know the limitations. We know what we don't know. We know what's been shown to not work. But then you have on the other side of this equation thousands of hours, years of experience with countless types of clientele personally with courses with seminars and you can really add context to saying well we've tried this and we've seen this and we've noticed this. So when you have a field like this where the science is just is where it is having that clinical experience is incredibly valuable. So, I can't thank you enough for coming by today, sharing a ton of research, a ton of physiology, lots of personal anecdotes. I know that uh people if they want to see direct examples, they can go and and check out uh all your videos and your free things you put out there, and we'll link to all of that, of course. So, thank you so much for all of that and and all the years as well, and we really appreciate you coming by today. Thank you, Andy. Your work has been life-changing for me and I love being a friend of yours and I also love being a student of the education that you offer. Awesome. Thank you so much. I hope you enjoyed today's discussion with Jill Miller as much as I did. To find direct links to the videos we referred to earlier, Jill's courses, seminars, products, and other services, please check out the links provided in the show notes. Thank you for joining for today's episode. My goal, as always, is to share exciting scientific insights that help you perform at your best. If the show resonates with you and you want to help ensure this information remains free and accessible to anyone in the world, there are a few ways that you can support. First, you can subscribe to the show on YouTube, Spotify, and Apple. And on Apple and Spotify, you can leave us up to a five-star review. Subscribing and leaving a review really does help us a lot. Also, please check out our sponsors. The show would not exist without them and their exceptional products and services. Finally, you can share today's episode with a friend who you think would enjoy it. If you have any content questions or suggestions, please put those in the comments section on YouTube. I really do try my best to read them all and to see what you have to say. I use my Instagram and ex-profiles also exclusively for scientific communication. So, those are great places to follow along for more learning. My handle is Dr. Andygalpin on both platforms. We also have an email newsletter that distills all of our episodes in the most actionable takeaways. We have newsletters on how to improve fitness in V2 max, how to build muscle and strength, and much more. To subscribe to the newsletter, just go to performpodcast.com and click newsletter. It's completely free and we do not share your email with anybody. Thank you for listening. And never forget, in the famous words of Bill Bowererman, if you have a body, you are an athlete.