Welcome to another episode of Five Minute Physiology with Dr. Andy Galpin. &gt;&gt; You might be surprised to hear this, but there actually are many scientifically validated ways to speed up or boost your metabolism. Unfortunately, very few of them will actually help you lose any body fat. Confused? I don't blame you. Most of the things I have personally heard in this space are either outright lies or completely exaggerated. Most of the time is sell you a product. It is true though. Some people have an easier time eating as much food as they want or seemingly so and staying lean while others have a far more difficult time losing body fat or maintaining where they're at. So that is a real phenomenon and it is tied to your metabolism but not in the way you think. Trust me, as someone who has a PhD in human bioenergetics, I can tell you clearly there is no such thing as a fast or slow metabolism. So what's really going on here? Let's really quickly unpack it and let you walk away with some scientifically supported ways to boost your metabolism. Here's where things get complicated. There are dozens of studies showing a variety of products can increase your metabolism. What they're almost always looking at is what's called your basil or resting metabolic rate. Now, this is the amount of energy you're producing every minute or second. And this can be elevated with countless things. spicy food, cold water, cold air, caffeine, green tea, stimulants, thermogenetics, sleep, acute exercise, and so on and so forth. These will take your metabolic rate from here to here right now. The problem is that may or may not necessarily result in you losing any more body fat because the amount of change is small. The transient time point, in other words, how long it's elevated, tends to be within minutes or hours at most. And so while you might eat some spicy food and your basil metabolic rate might go up five or 10 calories for 30 minutes, that's pennies on what your entire body is holding in terms of caloric load. So it's not going to make any functional difference. You also have an issue of sometimes we result in a compensation mechanism in which because you were elevated slightly, your body will then match that elevation with a down regulation to keep your total net at the exact same level. This is where marketing claims tend to be confusing to the consumer because they can say we ran a study. It was third party validated, double blind, placebo controlled, all the buzzwords. And they're right. It did happen. And that thing did result in a statistically significant increase in basil metabolic rate. But was it clinically or practically meaningful for what you care about body fat? Probably not. Where this thing is real is the second half of the equation and that is can I do something that will permanently elevate my basil metabolic rate. Another way to think about this is can I be burning more calories just sitting around doing nothing and can this caloric burn be in an amount that is meaningful for me so after several weeks or months I will actually lose some physical weight. The list here goes from dozens to just a couple. Some things to focus on. The biggest impact you'll make here by far with a lot of literature with meaningful effects is sleep. If you aren't sleeping great, you need to look no further for elevating and enhancing your metabolic rate or boosting metabolism than correcting that sleep issue. Even if you're feeling sleeping okay and you can go from that to great sleep, that will have the biggest impact of anything I'm about to say. After that, and I truly friends mean way, way lower on the priority list are things like adding skeletal muscle. For every pound of muscle you add, you will burn a small number of calories per day. And that can add up to a lot over years and months, but it's not going to be the difference of you losing two or three or 10 pounds of fat in a month or something. It's a very small amount. Now, this game is all about stacking lots of small wins over time, for sure. So, that's great. I want you to add some muscle, but I also don't want you to be thinking just because you put on a few pounds, you're all of a sudden going to lose all that extra body fat because that's not likely to happen. A couple of other things to throw out here that have an actual quality scientific evidence base are one, eating more calories in general, and two, any form of exercise. Now, to make sure we're really clear here, if you do something that gives you a short rise in metabolic rate and you do it frequently or consistently or it leads to more energy expenditure overall, then that will itself lead to more fat loss. But it wasn't the fact that that thing boosted your metabolism that did it. Here's a direct example. Let's say you ate some spicy foods or ingested some caffeine, took some green tea or put your face in cold water and that gave you more motivation to go exercise. So, you exercised harder or longer or more frequently. You did it more consistently. You had a better workout or you felt better, so then you didn't reach for more stimulants. So, then you had a better night of sleep or you made better nutritional choices. It's the secondary or indirect effects of those boosters that actually led to you taking a better lifestyle action which then led to eventual fat loss. So if any of you have ever tried something like that or a product in that realm and said, "I don't know, it worked for me." It's probably because it just helped you with motivation. You actually felt better. You went and then did something that was the real cause of that change in energy equation which helped the body fat come up from the chronic perspective. Our true ways there are fixing sleep, making sure it's great, adding some muscle, and then lastly, if you have any other health performance anchor, so something really going wrong in your physiology, a clinical disease or even subclinical one, those things can put constraints on your metabolism as well, which might be causing problems. In that case, you don't need to do anything special except for resolve or otherwise treat that issue, and you should see your the basil metabolic rate rise back up. If you like this stuff and you want to learn way more about it, I would encourage you to check out episode 11 of my co-op podcast called Perform with Dr. Andy Galpin where I went through a full deep dive, shared the exact research, covered way more ground, other topics, other protocols, and so you can see all that available on YouTube and anywhere else you get your podcast. Thanks so much for checking out another episode of Fiveish Minute Physiology, and I'll see you next time. If you enjoyed this and want to keep learning more about human health and performance, consider signing up for the Catalyst. That's my completely free newsletter where we share information about places I've learned from, great books, podcasts, social media people to follow, and other ways to stay upto-date with the most recent evidenceinformed approaches in this field. I'll put a link to that newsletter in the description below, as well as pinned to the top comments, and I'll see you there. Thank you for tuning in to another episode of Five Minute Physiology with Dr. Andy Galpin.