I'm Dr. Andy Galpin, I'm a professor of kinesiology in the Center for Sport Performance at Cal State Fullerton. In that center, our mission is to conduct and disseminate research that enhances human performance. In addition to my role as a scientist there, I've also worked directly with professional athletes for nearly 20 years, I've been fortunate to work with a number of high profile and highly successful individuals. This would include: Olympic gold and silver medalists, world champions, MVPs, Cy Young Winners, Hall of Famers, and more, across a variety of sports. But not only have I had a passion for conducting human performance research and applying it to real athletes in the field, I've also made a career emphasis to get that information out to the public. So in an effort to continue that, and at the strong encouragement of Andrew as well as the rest of the team here at the Huberman Lab podcast and many others, I'm extremely excited to be launching my own show. My main focus of this show is not necessarily physiology that is healthy, or really healthy. It's what is maximally healthy. How do I optimize and peak my physical performance? Now, I'm fully aware most of you listening, and in fact, honestly myself as well, have really no interest in breaking world records in any physical feats, now or anytime in the future. And so you may be asking yourself, "Why would this information matter to me?" Well think about it this way. If we understand the tools and tactics required to perform at this kind of a level, when dialed up to 10 in the most extreme environments, that's going to help us understand what to do when the dial's only at five or six. Along the way, I'm going to share with you all of my secrets. Well, maybe not all of them. But the things that we use that you're not going to necessarily find in the peer-reviewed research. While doing that, I'm going to be sharing with you candidly some advanced tools, technologies, and tactics that may not be within your budget, or even frankly available to the general public. So at the same time, I will go out of my way to ensure I mention alternatives, so what strategies are available, ideally low or free cost, that are still scientifically valid ways to either identify, interpret, or intervene, and drive the appropriate physiological change that you're looking for. So admittedly, while we're going to be sticking mostly to the peer-reviewed science, I will from time to time enter in my personal opinion from my coaching practice, and I will be sure I'm clarifying you when it is my opinion, versus what is the scientific consensus. With that all being said, I'm incredibly excited and proud to release to you this first season. I want to keep the content as high of quality as possible. So this first season is going to only be about a dozen or so episodes. After that, we're going to take some time to go back to the lab, work on some more stuff, and only come back for season two once we've achieved that same level of excellence we hope we've accomplished in season one. I sincerely thank you for your time and attention thus far, and hope to see you back here for episode one.