The catalyst is finally ready to go. It's a project I've been wanting to do for a really long time and I honestly just finally made it a priority and got it done. It is and always will be completely free. It's a big mission of mine and has been for almost 15 years to make as many things as affordable and accessible when possible as I can. So, this is a way for you to know what I think is cool in the area of health and human performance. It'll be really practical stuff. It'll be really complicated stuff. It's just a combination of anything I found to be valuable, interesting, or entertaining. It's nutrition stuff or exercise tips, new research articles that were just published that I thought were really good or helpful. And so, it's a really [music] short, quick bite into those with direct access and links for anyone who wants to go into more detail for any of the topics you found interesting. We're also going to be giving away lots of features, tons [music] of giveaways, and all kinds of other stuff. So, I hope you enjoy it. It's the Catalyst, and it is available now. What's up team? The Catalyst newsletter with Dr. Annie Galpin and I is now live. [music] This is a free newsletter, but it's going to operate every little bit like a paid newsletter because you're going to get exclusive access to content that you won't find anywhere else. You're going to get access to what studies we're reading, training, nutrition, and supplement tips that aren't anywhere else. And if you like my research reviews here on Instagram, I'm doing video reviews for subscribers only inside of the newsletter. and so [music] much more. There's a lot of stuff coming down the pipe for you guys. And this is a big part of what we want to do. We want to give back to science like we always have. And we want to take people on a journey as if they were getting mentored by us, as if they were keeping up to date with exactly [music] what we're doing and learning so that you can stay on top of the science. And just as importantly, stay on top of the application on that science. The catalyst is here and it's not going anywhere.